

1 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 6; Page 25; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY, May 1, 1994;
Help Wanted: Actors

 BODY:
Who better to coach the unemployed than actors, who are always out of work? The idea may seem perverse, but that's what the New York State Department of Labor and the Actors' Work Program are doing with the Theater of the Employed.
Gail Parker, an actor, led a recent workshop in this program in the garment district of Manhattan. "For better or worse, actors are pros at rejection," she said. Parker has also been a "certified fitness instructor," "trainer" and "communications professional." 
 Among the participants in her workshop were several lawyers, two money managers, an interior designer, a research technician and one man who said: "What am I? Anything I guess. I don't know. Economist."
Parker provided unwavering support during two hours of mock interviews and breathing exercises as the job seekers learned to correct their posture, investigate potential employers and practice projecting their voices to unsuspecting strangers at fruit markets. She didn't expect them all to return for the follow-up a week later. Some, presumably, would have already found dramatically new roles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; THEATER EMPLOYMENT (85%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); 

PERSON: GAIL PARKER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



2 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2077 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY VIEW;
Arthur Miller Still Holds to His Moral Vision

BYLINE: By Vincent Canby 

 BODY:
TIME HASN'T HAD A STOP, BUT it's doing a graceful pause at the Booth Theater, where "Broken Glass," Arthur Miller's small, intense, deceptively prosy new drama, has set up shop. It was just a half-century ago that Mr. Miller made his Broadway debut with "The Man Who Had All the Luck," which closed after four performances, to begin a career that in 1949 was to include "Death of a Salesman," a modern classic and the work by which everything he has since written continues to be judged. In a metier where people burn out fast, he's still remarkable for the acuity and scope of his moral vision.
It's this vision, as well as the Miller voice, which remains as strong and unrelenting as a prophet's, that distinguish "Broken Glass" and give it a poignance so rare these days that it's almost new-fashioned. The play is ostensibly about a failed marriage, but the failure Mr. Miller examines has less to do with connubial relations than with one man's warped perception of the American way. Like Willy Loman in "Death of a Salesman," the hero of "Broken Glass" hasn't misread society's signals so much as he has blindly accepted them. 
 The time is 1938, the year of the Anschluss, when Hitler walked into Austria and announced, "It's mine," and of Kristallnacht (the night of broken glass), when rioting against the Jews in Germany suddenly alerted the rest of the world to everything that was to come. Phillip Gellburg (Ron Rifkin) is the head of the mortgage department of the Brooklyn Guarantee & Trust Company. In fact, he's the only Jew ever hired by the company and proud of it. He's also proud of his son, who has graduated from West Point and is making a career in the Army, largely, it seems, to prove Phillip's point that Jews don't always have to be lawyers, doctors or businessmen.
Phillip is a small man but he's a gigantic mess. Half of him is as anti-Semitic as Stanton Case (George N. Martin), the white Anglo-Saxon Protestant head of Brooklyn Guarantee. The other, only vaguely recognized half is the bewildered son of immigrants, a first-generation Jewish American trying to assimilate. As his life falls apart in the course of the play, Phillip remembers the joy he experienced many years before, walking down Orchard Street with his then-young beautiful bride, Sylvia (Amy Irving). "I felt so at home and happy there," he says, "a street full of Jews, one Moses after another. But they all turned to watch her go by, those fakers." Something you forget about Mr. Miller is that he can write dialogue with the best of them: wonderfully vivid, funny, ironic and economical. He doesn't waste words but, because he favors prosaic locutions, his gift for language is not often recognized.
It's Sylvia who forces Phillip to examine his once perfectly buttoned-up life. When the play opens, he's consulting his neighborhood doctor, Harry Hyman (David Dukes), about Sylvia who, nine days before, developed an inability to walk, stand up or move her legs, something that has just been diagnosed as hysterical paralysis. In every other way, she seems fine, though she has also become obsessed by the news from Germany. This especially irritates Phillip, who blames the sensation-mongering newspapers. He's also worried about Germany, he tells the doctor, but, after all, it's 3,000 miles away. Among other things, he's afraid Hitler will give fancy new ideas to American anti-Semites.
Phillip is desperately conflicted, the sort of passive-aggressive who, in a more conventional drama, would be a supporting character, which is the role he would assign himself. In his black suits, black ties, black shoes and white shirts, he doesn't want to call attention to himself. Mr. Miller places him at stage center and, with the awful gentleness of a surgeon operating without anesthesia, skins him alive. In Mr. Rifkin's richly detailed performance, the spectacle fascinates, though always at a somewhat chilly remove. Mr. Miller doesn't invite easy sentiment.
Sylvia is a far more nebulous character, a woman who gave up a promising business career of her own to become a good Jewish wife and mother, only to realize, too late, that she had married half a man. Now, in a barren middle age, she has caught a glimpse of the void and panicked. Ms. Irving, looking wafer-thin and beautiful, initially seems too young for the role, but she surprises. As she demonstrated in "Heartbreak House" some years ago, she's an actress of substance, intelligence and style. Hers is a most felicitous performance.
The other performances are good, especially those by Mr. Dukes (as the doctor) and Mr. Martin (as Phillip's boss). Yet no matter how their characters are disguised, they exist principally to make the plot function.
"Broken Glass" unfolds in 10 scenes with a gathering, Ibsen-like force as the doctor attempts to uncover the roots of Sylvia's illness. The play is meticulously constructed. This is evident in the way that Mr. Miller eventually reconciles Sylvia's preoccupation with events in Germany, which initially seems associated with some kind of atavistic memory, with what has (or hasn't) been going on in her bedroom. The craft may be meticulous but it is not entirely satisfactory. The ultimate revelations simply confirm the audience's suspicions, instead of somehow turning them upside down.
The production is efficiently directed by John Tillinger in Santo Loquasto's handsome, sleek, if overly complicated turntable set, which revolves to reveal the doctor's office, Phillip and Sylvia's bedroom and the executive suite at Brooklyn Guarantee. The shared visual motif of all three: a pattern of white tiles of the sort you'd find in the shower room of a large, impersonal institution.
 
'Picnic'
 There may be life in "Picnic," William Inge's 1953 Pulitzer Prize winner, but you won't find it in the astonishingly superficial revival by the Roundabout Theater Company at the Criterion Center. For all intents and purposes, the play, now set in the Depressed 1930's, looks deader than a doornail. Who's at fault? It's difficult to say.
I have fond memories of the original Joshua Logan production with a marvelous cast headed by Ralph Meeker, Kim Stanley, Eileen Heckart and Paul Newman, all members of the Actors Studio, and Janice Rule, who later joined the Studio. Yet, when I read the text shortly before going to the Roundabout revival, it seemed almost hopelessly dated: a romantic 1950's reverie about a small group of women in a small Kansas prairie town, and how their lives are changed by the appearance of a none-too-bright young macho drifter. None-too-bright young macho drifters were once the icons of a certain kind of poetic Broadway drama. In the context of today's less inhibited theater, these fellows tend to be flabby, potbellied theatrical devices, even when they spring from the imagination of Tennessee Williams.
"Picnic" contains some funny lines but most of the dialogue is written in a commonplace, faux-naif idiom that demands the talents of an absolutely first-rate cast guided by a director who can find the truth within all of the inarticulate malarkey. Scott Ellis, the director of the splendid revival of "She Loves Me," seems to have got nowhere near any such truth in this production. Even Tony Walton's elaborate set goes to waste. Uninhabited by any strong performances, it's a parched evocation of a small town that could be on Cape Cod or the moon.
It takes actors to make the scenery as well as the text work. As Hal Carter, the drifter, Kyle Chandler looks as if he had just flown home from law school, when he's supposed to have jumped off a freight. He speaks the lines clearly, but that's about all. Ashley Judd plays Madge, identified more than once as the prettiest girl in town, the lonely, lost, inhibited young woman who falls heedlessly in love with Hal. Though the actress is strikingly pretty, she never successfully plays that prettiness, so that by the end of the performance, she's just more scenery.
The high point of the original production, as well as of Logan's 1956 movie version, was the erotic dance by which Hal, the shirtless life force, seduces Madge's Main Street madonna in the twilight of a blistering hot Labor Day, under the watchful eyes of her family and friends. It should be a sure-fire theatrical moment: to the music of a radio, Hal and Madge begin dancing chastely enough but, as they go on, their heat rises. By the time they finish, Hal has forever unleashed forces within Madge that neither of them can comprehend. It's the make-or-break moment of the entire play. In this version, Hal and Madge could be playing horseshoes.
Debra Monk and Larry Bryggman give decent accounts of themselves as an aging schoolteacher and her longtime beau. Most of the other actors behave as if they had never been properly introduced to their characters. They seem to float alongside them, speaking their lines and doing their business without ever making the big leap to get inside them. Exceptional is Anne Pitoniak, who plays the old lady next door. I don't know what she does or how she does it, but the minute Ms. Pitoniak comes on stage, this "Picnic" suddenly finds a center. It's not the right one, but something's better than nothing.
 
'Amphigorey'
 "Amphigorey," at the Perry Street Theater, is officially described as a musicale, but that's just one of the jokes in this classy show, which has the kind of unstoppable zest I associate with the old Shoestring Revues and the revues that Julius Monk once staged at the Plaza. Not since those days have I seen a small cast of such spirited young dancer-singer-actors knock themselves out with such verve simply to please an audience hungry for wit, high spirits and irreverent, literate humor.
There is a difference though. "Amphigorey," based on the writings and drawings of Edward Gorey, is perhaps only fully enjoyed by people who have had a long and loving relationship with Mr. Gorey's surreal work. For others, including me, who know him only through his stylish titles for the PBS "Mystery!" series, "Amphigorey" is often more mysterious than it should be. His is a most special world, a darkly eccentric, contemporary Victorian age, a place that might be imagined by a Lewis Carroll on acid, peopled by voracious opera stars, warring children and other innocents, most of whom come to very bad ends.
When Mr. Gorey's words are sung by a cast as gifted as this one, it's sometimes hard to make them out, even to distinguish the nonsense proper names (Splaytova, Studge, Sergissipov) from the lower-case nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs that seldom are sung (or spoken) in familiar conjunction. It's a little like going to the Comedie Francaise without having taken a French refresher course first.
Not always, however. "Q.R.V.," the big opening number featuring the entire cast, is an ecstatic paean to the multiple beneficial effects of Q.R.V., which can settle the nerves, be thrown like a grenade, used to clean drains or dabbed under the arms to act as a love potion. Many of the sketches are obviously based on material so familiar to some members of the audience that they can anticipate the fun. But even I could appreciate a reference in "The Enraged Telephone" (about a telephone at the end of its patience) to the Byword Home for Distracted Menials.
Among the titles of the sketches: "The Admonitory Hippopotamus," "The Inanimate Tragedy" and (my favorite) "The Deranged Cousins," which sounds like a long-lost Nouveau Vague classic but isn't. There's a valuable imagination at work here.
Joyce Sozen appears as Mrs. Regera Dowdy, introduced as one of the "shy and reclusive" Mr. Gorey's "less timid alter egos." She's very funny as the show's alternately raffish and imperial emcee.
Mr. Gorey wrote and designed "Amphigorey." Peter Golub composed the music and Daniel Levans is responsible for the direction and choreography. Everything works with the sort of precision you expect on Broadway. But, be warned: read at least some of the Gorey books first, or take along someone who has.
 
BROKEN GLASS Arthur Miller uses vivid, economical dialogue in a meticulously constructed tale that is not entirely satisfactory.
 
PICNIC Who's at fault? It's difficult to say. Certainly not Anne Pitoniak, in an exceptional performance that grounds Inge's 1953 play.
 
AMPHIGOREY Edward Gorey's classy musicale has a young, spirited cast and unstoppable zest.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amy Irving and Ron Rifkin portray a troubled Brooklyn couple in Mr. Miller's new play, "Broken Glass." (Inge Morath/Magnum Photos/"Broken Glass"); Cast members in the Roundabout Theater Company revival of William Inge's "Picnic," from left, Anne Pitoniak, Polly Holliday, Ashley Judd, Tate Donovan and Kyle Chandler -- The action most needed is a big leap to get inside the characters. (Carol Rosegg/Martha Swope Associates/"Picnic")(pg. 5); From left, Richard Parent, Ken Jennings, Dale Sandish, Jennifer Haimo and Kevin McDermott in Edward Gorey's "Amphigorey." (SKID/"Amphigorey")(pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BROKEN GLASS (PLAY); PICNIC (PLAY); AMPHIGOREY: A MUSICALE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TRUST CO LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RIOTS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: GOREY, EDWARD; INGE, WILLIAM; MILLER, ARTHUR; CANBY, VINCENT ARTHUR MILLER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



3 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2308 words

HEADLINE: CHOICE TABLES;
Tastes Swing Back To Flavors of Naples

BYLINE: By MAUREEN B. FANT; MAUREEN B. FANT is the author of "Eat Like the Romans: The Visitor's Food Guide" (Alphabyte, Rome).

 BODY:
AMERICANS' love affair with Italian food began with the sunny tastes of the south, and the Bay of Naples in particular -- spaghetti with rich, red tomato sauce, linguine with clams, thick-crusted pizza with oregano. Now, tiring of radicchio and carpaccio, many Italian-food eaters on both sides of the Atlantic are admitting to nostalgia for the flavors of the fertile slopes of Vesuvius. Fortunately, travelers to the Naples area today can have it both ways -- robust ingredients handled in a sophisticated modern way.
If you stay away from bus groups and mandolin players, the restaurant scene is pretty good. During a couple of brief trips last month to Naples and the Sorrento Peninsula, I tried a few of many wonderful places to eat and, just for fun, picked the ones where I would send the Clintons, were I an advisor, when they attend the meeting of the seven largest industrialized countries in Naples this coming July.
 
La Sacrestia
We'd first gone to top-rated La Sacrestia a few years ago and been enchanted. We'd been enchanted by the view of the bay, the whimsical medieval-ecclesiastical decor (the name means sacristy) and lace doilies, and the food. But this time many dishes listed on the menu were not available, and our waiter recited some unlisted dishes that were ex-trendy and banal (fillet with green peppercorns, for example). The quality of the food, as well as the variety, had fallen a bit too. 
 Our appetizer of fried anchovies stuffed with mozzarella was overdone, while our eggplant-stuffed ravioli were underdone, a pity, as the dish was otherwise a symphony of southern tastes.
We suspected what was the matter, and gossip we heard later confirmed it: La Sacrestia has suffered from the Tangentopoli scandals. The politicians who were the backbone of the restaurant's clientele are lying low, and half of the restaurant's 90 seats were empty on a Friday evening. In general, the recent political and economic chaos in Italy has meant only good news for the average diner. Forced to reconstruct their customer bases, most restaurants are doing so with friendlier service and fairer pricing, and indeed we found La Sacrestia's prices a bit lower.
I'm convinced that La Sacrestia's malaise is temporary. The trolley of fresh local cheeses, including the region's pride, mozzarella di bufala, is as attractive as the trolley of classic Neapolitan desserts, including pastiera napolitana (a ricotta cake with orange rind), feather-light baba, and, in mid-March, zeppola di San Giuseppe (whose feast day is March 19), a sweet bun filled with custard and black cherry.
The tranquil, otherworldly setting high above the chaos of Naples makes La Sacrestia worth a visit. Skip the antipasto misto, which is all deep fried, and have something like the shrimp with artichokes. We tried pasta with vegetable-based sauces -- the eggplant ravioli and a subtle bucatini with fresh onions and basil. In the past we had seafood, as did most of the other diners, like spaghetti with tomato and the tender white flesh of the scorfano, scorpion fish. For the main course, my companion's pezzogna (a local white fish) with unsalted green olives was quite good and unusual, although my fillet of sole under a mountain of slivered artichokes smacked of hotel food.
Most of the Campanian white wines listed were unavailable, but our fragrant, dry Villa Matilde Falanghina was our first choice anyway.
 
Ciro a Santa Brigida
A night at the opera -- specifically, at Naples's celebrated Teatro San Carlo -- or a morning of museum going, ending at the Castel Nuovo, could happily finish nearby at one of the city's most respected downtown restaurant-pizzerias. The restaurant seems so cozy I was surprised to find out later it seats 180.
As everywhere around Naples, vegetables and seafood were more enticing than meat. We eschewed the boring antipasti (shrimp cocktail, prosciutto) and chose our starters from the vegetable list with happy results. The carciofo (artichoke) alla siciliana -- with black olives, capers and crushed small tomatoes -- was an explosion of southern flavors, perhaps too explosive for the delicate artichoke.
The zucchini alla scapece -- thin-sliced zucchini, fried golden, with lots of garlic and vinegar -- was a fine execution of a classic.
Tubettoni con le cozze, large-bore short pasta in a very light tomato sauce with mussels, tasted of the sea. Truly memorable were the rotelli con peperoncini verdi, wheel-shaped pasta with a sauce of tomato and small green peppers.
As a main course, we chose polipi alla Ciro -- small whole octopi cooked in an earthenware dish in a sauce much like that of the artichoke -- and the restaurant's famous fish soup, pignatiello 'e Vavella -- a baking dish filled with tomatoes, clams, shrimp, tiny octopi and tiny squid and toast to soak up the liquid.
The standard baba is embellished (successfully) with custard and tiny strawberries, and the pastiera was excellent.
 
Mimi alla Ferrovia
The descriptions of Mimi we'd heard and read had led us to expect great home cooking in squalid surroundings near the station. I was afraid I couldn't possibly send the Clintons there, but in fact it is a very large, comfortable restaurant that seats 140, though after dark I would certainly arrive and depart by taxi.
When I saw standard fare like scaloppine al marsala and cotoletta alla milanese on the menu, however, I wondered whether we'd come to the right place. We eased into the meal with antipasto Mimi -- mozzarella di bufala, involtino di peperoni (roasted pepper wrapped around a rich filling of bread and cheese) fried mozzarella, squash blossoms, and more. The loud southern accent of the exquisite antipasto dispelled any doubt; it was clearly going to be a question of convincing the waiter we were serious.
In the theater that is Naples, you have to know your lines. A food expert in Rome, I announced, told us to come to Mimi for the real Neapolitan cooking (which was true). Our waiter, Roberto, took his cue, nodded gravely, and said "pasta e ceci." We were off and running. He brought us tasting portions of a creamy chickpea soup with fresh pasta and one of pasta e fagioli -- beans -- and then a few tiny fried squid. That was followed by a shared linguine alla Mimi -- pasta with scampi, shrimp and clams in a sauce of crushed small tomatoes.
We stuck with fish and ordered grilled squid and a pair of large red mullets in fresh tomato sauce.
The inevitable baba and pastiera for dessert were accompanied by the house limoncello, the refreshing lemon liqueur of the region.
On a Saturday afternoon, we left Naples and drove about 35 miles around to the other side of the bay to the tip of the Sorrento Peninsula. Both the restaurants we visited have decorous rooms, so there is no need to challenge the Amalfi Drive after dinner.
 
Don Alfonso 1890
One of Italy's top restaurants, with celebrated wine cellar to match, is in the little town of Sant'Agata sui Due Golfi, overlooking the Bay of Naples and the Gulf of Salerno. But you don't go to Sant'Agata for the view. You go for Don Alfonso.
The pink-and-green floral decor is perfect, the setting intimate (seats 40), and the service relaxed enough to suit southern Italy but professional enough for a president. Livia Iaccarino, a co-owner, is the gracious hostess; her husband, Alfonso (grandson of the original Don Alfonso), is the chef. There are two tasting menus, one traditional and one creative, both served only to entire tables, but we could not resist the variety of the regular menu. All the choices celebrate local ingredients -- many, including the olive oil, grown and produced on the Iaccarinos' nearby farm.
Our appetizers were "zeppole" (the traditional bun, usually filled with custard) filled with lobster and garnished with julienne vegetables in a light sweet and sour sauce -- one of those dishes you remember for years -- and the delicate "treccia di pesce azzurro in carpione," daintily braided fish fillets in a light marinade. Also on the antipasto menu were "foam" of tuna with polenta and sweet peppers, raw shrimp with white beans and mint, and cotechino sausage wrapped in Savoy cabbage with puree of cauliflower.
We passed up risotto with oysters and asparagus and whole-wheat pasta with artichoke and sausage, and chose paccheri di Gragnano, a traditional large tubular pasta specific to the peninsula, with oregano, black olives, salt cod and tomatoes; and potato gnocchetti with pomodorini (small tomatoes) and smoked provola cheese, both superb.
The main dishes, which included fish, meat and game, were slightly more traditional. We had the delicate boccadoro (a local white fish) diced and sauteed quickly, and spezzatino (stew) of tiny cubes of wild boar, with pieces of sweet pepper, zucchini, and pear, in a sauce of unsweetened chocolate (not whimsy, but quite orthodox with game in classic Italian cooking). Those were accompanied by a glass of the house red wine, since our excellent Falerno del Massico (Villa Matilde again) was white.
The dessert menu was a list of confections of unbelievable fantasy. My delizia di zucca -- a sweet puree of winter squash with pistachio marzipan and ricotta -- was delicate and delicious. On another visit, we'll try the pasticcio di melanzane e cioccolato (eggplant and chocolate dessert), a traditional combination in the Amalfi area.
The tufa cellar, stocked with French, Australian and Californian wines, and the finest Italians, was supposedly first excavated by Etruscans. Guests may visit and buy the house wine, olive oil and other products. Don Alfonso has fixed up three charming mini-apartments for the express purpose of letting guests enjoy the famous wine list without smashing their cars afterward.
 
 Taverna del Capitano
On the beach at the very tip of the peninsula six miles from the town of Massa Lubrense are a number of seafood restaurants, of which this must be the best, and I'm only sorry it will probably be too out of the way for the Clintons. Our first impression was of a typical seaside establishment that must prepare 800 plates of spaghetti alle vongole a day during high season, but we quickly found out that the captain doesn't run that kind of ship. Rather, the restaurant seats only 50 and the captain's wife and chef, Grazia Casa, strikes just the right balance between traditional respect for the finest, freshest local foods and a rather refined attention to presentation and and combination of ingredients.
Settled in by a huge picture window from which we saw only water, my enthusiastic companion attempted to construct his own antipasto misto from the menu. The captain would have none of it. The house misto, he explained, was "balanced." To ease our wait the captain's daughter, the extremely knowledgeable sommelier, served us a stuzzichino (a little goody to stimulate the appetite) of torta rustica with artichoke, ricotta and mozzarella, with the white Falanghina dei Campi Flegrei she helped us choose from a number of interesting regional wines. Everything is homemade, including the interesting breads and the lightly smoked and marinated salmon that graced our unusual and most wonderful antipasto misto, along with shrimp mousse, pesce bandiera (scabbard fish) with sesame sauce, smoked swordfish, marinated anchovies with sauce of crushed mint and parsley, mussels, cannolicchi (razor clams) and cuttlefish with pinto beans. By this point we had placed ourselves in the hands of the captain, who let us taste fish-stuffed ravioli in a delicate sauce of diced small tomatoes, black and white tagliatelle (a marine version of paglia e fieno) with scorfano and tomato, and cannelloni with shrimp stuffing and a sauce of cozze and vongole.
He then wheeled over a trolley of the most beautiful fish for us to interview. My companion chose a magnificent, bright-red scorfano, to be cooked whole in fresh tomato. I took the triglie (red mullets), designated di scoglio, the more highly prized ones that hang around rocks, not sand. Those were filleted then baked, covered with "scales" of thin-sliced potato. In addition to the inevitable baba and pastiera, the homemade desserts included tegola (tile) di cioccolato (chocolate) and the shell-shaped pastry known as sfogliatella filled with custard and black cherry instead of the usual ricotta and candied fruit.
 
 
 
WHERE TO EAT
 I have specified Campanian wine because in most cases I mean modestly priced but very good wines chosen from a wine list.
Since these wines do not come from very far away, they tend to have the best prices.
Prices include antipasto, first course, main course, dessert, and service, which is usually a 12 to 14 percent charge.
La Sacrestia, 116 Via Orazio, Naples; (081) 664186, (081) 7611051. Closed Monday.
A meal for two with a bottle of Campanian wine costs about $98.
Ciro a Santa Brigida, 73 Via Santa Brigida, Naples; (081) 5534072. Closed Sunday.
A meal for two with a carafe of house wine costs about $65.
Mimi alla Ferrovia, 21 Via Alfonso d'Aragona, Naples; (081) 5538525. Closed Sunday.
A meal for two with a carafe of house wine costs about $67.
Don Alfonso 1890, 11 Piazza Sant' Agata, Sant'Agata sui Due Golfi (Naples); (081) 8780026, fax 5330226.
Closed Sunday evening through Tuesday, and from June 1 to Sept. 30 closed only on Monday.
Tasting menus about $46 and $58 a person, not including wine. Meal for two a la carte with bottle of Campanian wine, about $122 to $153. ( If you dine a la carte, everything will turn up on your bill exceptfor the bite of pate offered at the beginning of the meal.)
Taverna del Capitano, 10/11 Piazza delle Sirene, 80068 Nerano (Naples); (081) 8081028, fax (081) 8081892. Closed Monday.
A meal for two with bottle of Campanian wine about $61.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Livia and Alfonso Iaccarino in the cellars of Don Alfonso. Their farm provides local foods. (Giuseppe Avalone for The New York Times)(pg. 31); Pignatiello 'e vavella, a fish soup with tomatoes, clams, shrimp and squid, at Ciro a Santa Brigida. The cousins who own Mimi alla Ferrovia, both named Michele Giugliano, and the chef, Pellegrino Minucci. The restaurant's antipasto exemplifies flavorful Neapolitan cooking. At Taverna del Capitano, which has a picture window overlooking the water on the Sorrento Peninsula, fresh fish is a specialty. (Photographs by Giuseppe Avalone for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES (ITALY); ITALY; UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS; NYTRAVEL RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (68%); RELIGION (66%); 

PERSON: FANT, MAUREEN B

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



4 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 4; Styles of The Times 

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: Such a Nice Zealot

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL 

 BODY:
In the past, animal-rights advertisements sought to shock and shame, with images of furry creatures caught in leg-hold traps, or veal calves confined to narrow stalls. The grim ads fired up the naturally indignant, but many found it just as easy to turn the page.
Try, though, to look away from this: Christy Turlington, her bottom bared, reclining like an odalisque on a 14-by-48-foot billboard above Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles. The slogan? "I'd rather go naked than wear fur." 
 "We have bad news to tell the world, but we have to sugarcoat it," said Dan Mathews, who conceived the ad, which appeared earlier this year. "We've learned people are more attracted to a glossy, glamorous image than a grotesque one."
Mr. Mathews, the director of international campaigns and chief strategist for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA (with long "E"), has given the tired and frumpy anti-fur movement a make-over, transforming it into the fashion industry's sexiest cause.
PETA partisans, led by Mr. Mathews, spray-painted anti-fur graffiti in the offices of Calvin Klein and Vogue magazine last winter, attracting wide publicity. The targets of the protests denounced the tactics, but PETA was able to show it didn't lack for supporters among the cream of fashionville. Besides Ms. Turlington, other uber-models like Naomi Campbell and Tatjana Patiz disrobed for ads in the "naked" series, as did the ex-model Kim Basinger.
The true impact of anti-fur sentiment -- a decade-old movement that has already courted a backlash -- is debatable. Fur sales were up this winter for the second year in a row. But there's no denying that the animal-rights bandwagon is a gaudy and attractive vehicle now rolling down Seventh Avenue. The British magazine Time Out calls it the No. 1 "hip cause," eclipsing even AIDS.
Mr. Mathews, a 29-year-old former model, is an activist in the body of a 6-foot-5 hunk, a zealot who's not too busy to follow trendlets in fashion and the club scene. His ability to ingratiate himself with the runway crowd and his flair for publicity have had much to do with PETA's success.
"I always thought if Dan were a P.R. person, he'd be a millionaire," said Kate Pierson, the vocalist for the B-52's, who took part in the Vogue raid. "He comes up with genius campaigns. I wish he'd be the P.R. person for our next album."
His detractors say it's not genius, just old-fashioned grandstanding. "It's 1994 already, and it's standard operating procedure for anybody who wants to get press that you just go out and make yourself thoroughly obnoxious," said Stephan Weiss, a partner in Donna Karan New York, a recent PETA target.
Mr. Mathews promises a new round of protests when fur designers introduce their latest lines, beginning May 16.
Recently, he came to town from Rockville, Md., where PETA is based, to gather support. He visited Jason Weinberg, a publicist who represents models and actresses, to listen to him pitch clients who might disrobe for PETA. Thanks to Mr. Mathews, the prospect of joining the company of PETA spokeswomen represents not only a statement of principles, but also a smart career move.
"Somebody who'd be fantastic because she's so outspoken and an interesting story is Kristen McMenamy," Mr. Weinberg said to Mr. Mathews, naming a top model who's previously been known for plucking her eyebrows.
"We love her," Mr. Mathews said.
"She's got long red hair now," said Mr. Weinberg, explaining that Ms. McMenamy had just given birth, "and she's a little more" -- he clucked his tongue -- "endowed. I can see Kristen doing something really funky, with her new baby under her arm."
Mr. Mathews said that was great because the next "naked" campaign would feature families and couples.
"I've got Molly Ringwald in Paris right now," Mr. Weinberg said, seated on a couch beside Mr. Mathews. "I can see her getting on the anti-fur thing."
He was interrupted by an associate who stuck her head in the office to say: "We have Ivana Trump footloose and fancy free. Are there any parties she can go to?"
Mr. Mathews pricked up his ears. He recalled that Ms. Trump had told Vanity Fair she'd stopped wearing furs from animals trapped in the wild and wore only ranched furs. Mr. Mathews said he'd love to get PETA literature into her hands concerning fur-ranch conditions.
"I'll talk to her in the morning," Mr. Weinberg promised. He crossed one wool pant leg over the other. "Oh my God. You know who would be so awesome? You'd get lots of exposure. Shannen Doherty."
This has been the season the fur flew. Manufacturers fired the first barrage, loosing a $1.25 million ad campaign that showed young women on the beach draped in fur. The subtext was clear: fur wearers could come out of the closet again and embrace the luxury of their garments without embarrassment.
The campaign built on a sales surge after the bust, when fur sales plunged from a high of $1.8 billion in 1987 to just $1 billion in 1991. Furriers insist the drop tracked the national recession and a series of mild winters. It had nothing -- repeat, nothing -- to do with the stigmatization of fur, they say.
"The fact sales are up 20 percent in two years says more about what's happening in the fur industry than half a dozen people on the street parading around naked," said Karen Handel, a spokeswoman for the Fur Information Council, a trade group.
Yet, anti-fur sentiment is undeniable. Designers who have banished fur include Giorgio Armani, Bill Blass, Ralph Lauren, Isaac Mizrahi and Todd Oldham. Since the early 1980's, anti-fur activists have picketed Fred the Furrier outlets, dragged mink stoles down Fifth Avenue and confronted fur-wearing women on the street with snide remarks or even spray paint. As a result, many consumers now view fur as a faux pas. Half of those surveyed in a Los Angeles Times poll last year opposed the wearing of fur.
But the tactics have also alienated people. Many women who continue to wear fur have developed barb-proof skins and are immune to street-level protests.
So this year PETA, the largest and most flamboyant animal-rights group, with 500,000 members worldwide, took the crusade to a higher plane, targeting designers directly.
Calvin Klein was first. After a handful of members defaced the designer's 39th Street offices in January, Mr. Klein agreed to meet with PETA. He viewed a four-minute videotape that showed a beaver drowning in an underwater trap and a farm-raised chinchilla being electrocuted. "He told us he'd never seen the footage before and was shocked," Mr. Mathews said.
Within a week Mr. Klein announced that he was getting out of the fur business because of his "reflections on the humane treatment of animals" and because fur no longer fit with his "corporate philosophy."
What seems most remarkable in the affair Calvin is that the designer agreed at all to sit down with the people who had vandalized his office. A spokeswoman for the company said the meeting was Mr. Klein's idea. But Mr. Mathews said it was set up only because he made contact with a sympathetic executive in the company, whom he was led to by an ally in the press.
Mr. Mathews cited these backdoor maneuverings as crucial to PETA's effectiveness. The goal of this year's campaign was to "cause a shakeout in the fashion industry," he said. "And we're really pleased with the results. To get the Big Three in one winter was beyond our wildest dreams."
The Big Three in question are Calvin Klein, Anne Klein and Donna Karan, all of whom made it known in a five-week period that they were dropping fur.
But Mr. Mathews is probably too eager to take credit, especially for the withdrawals of the Anne Klein and Donna Karan companies. Stephan Weiss, Ms. Karan's partner and husband, said ethical considerations played no part. "The amount of revenues from it was hardly worth the effort to design them," he said.
In the case of Anne Klein, Mr. Mathews wrote to Richard Tyler, the firm's new designer, after hearing from K. D. Lang, the singer and PETA supporter, that Mr. Tyler intended to let the house's fur license expire. Mr. Mathews wrote that PETA had readied a poster of a coyote with a boot to its throat and the slogan "Where does Anne Klein Stand on Fur?" He promised to call off the campaign if he got written confirmation that Anne Klein was banning fur.
Frank R. Mori, an owner of the Anne Klein Companies, attacked Mr. Mathews's "extortionate manner" and his "self-aggrandizing publicity stunts" in a written reply. He said a decision to drop the company's fur license had been made before PETA came on the scene "for business reasons."
In the end, Mr. Mathews won't quibble. Do top designers like Oscar de la Renta and Karl Lagerfeld still love fur? To Mr. Mathews, it doesn't matter. "Most of their customers," he said, in an unkind reference to the fact that fur buyers are generally older, "will be dead soon." PETA wants the hearts and minds of the young, and from many indications it is winning. Half the models managed by Elite indicate "no fur" on their resume cards, which circulate to clients.
The anti-fur bandwagon has come on so fast that some who have jumped aboard are in danger of whiplash. The same month that Christy Turlington donated her time to pose for her anti-fur billboard, she appeared in an ad in French Vogue holding a shearling suede coat with a fox-fur trim. The ad had been shot a few months earlier.
There is a gulf between some fashion types who espouse a trendy anti-fur sentiment and the broad animal-rights movement, which is far more radical.
PETA opposes not just fur, but leather, shearling, silk (because the silkworms are boiled) and wool (sheep get nicked when they're sheared). It campaigns against animals used in circuses, movies and for medical research, including AIDS and cancer. Mr. Mathews glosses over these issues, but others in PETA admit that fur is just the wedge issue leading a broad agenda.
Mr. Mathews is a bit of a surprise himself. On the one hand, he's a true believer, a militant vegetarian who finds it cruel that cows are "exploited" to provide milk for people and that trout are "tortured" by fishermen. He perceives horrible animal suffering everywhere. Yet, he has none of the dour humorlessness of the zealot.
On the contrary, he is charming and extroverted, with an unexpectedly shy laugh. He attended his first animal-rights protest while in high school in Orange County, Calif. In the early 80's he moved to Rome for two years and supported himself modeling for avant-garde designers and acting in Fiat commercials and even a spaghetti western, "Arapaho."
Much of PETA's success is due to his ability to win the trust of celebrities. It probably doesn't hurt that in a world where looks are everything, he is tall, blue-eyed and square-jawed.
"Dan is very strong, forward, and he's got so much energy and confidence," said Fabienne Terwinghe, a model who posed for the "naked" campaign. She described him as "a cute boy" and said the fact he was at ease in her world -- they met in Paris through the efforts of Paul McCartney, the former Beatle -- increased her comfort over disrobing.
Mr. Mathews has a way of becoming friends with his celebrity supporters, welcomed into their homes. He stays with his "soul mate" Chrissie Hynde in London, and with Elvira, the horror diva, in Los Angeles.
"He's very good with celebrities," said K. D. Lang, who once lent him one of her Armani men's suits to wear to a meeting.
Mr. Mathews ran into Ms. Lang in New York during the fall collections recently, at the show for the Cuban-born designer Manolo. After embracing, they admired each other's "cruelty-free" outfits: Ms. Lang's black rubber coat, which Donna Karan had given her, and Mr. Mathews's sea-green canvas suit, designed for him by Manolo himself.
Mr. Mathews had come to the show, which was held in a church on Central Park West, to continue his courtship of the fashion world. He was throughly in his element.
"Chris-Ann!" he said, greeting a friend of Ms. Lang's, as he hobnobbed among the V.I.P.'s in the front row.
"Hi, Dan Mathews, you little PETA freak," she said, as they kiss-kissed.
He was introduced to Ingrid Sischy, the editor of Interview magazine, and mentioned that earlier in the day he'd met with her publisher, Sandra Brant, to pitch a story about celebrities sharing a vegetarian Thanksgiving.
Shortly before the models took to the catwalk, Mr. Mathews tapped the shoulder of a woman in the pew in front of him: Bjork, the Icelandic rock star and budding model. She had once performed at a PETA benefit. "You look like you were just in the sun," he said.
"Yes."
"How's your kid? Everyone seems to be having kids these days."
Mr. Mathews unfurled a poster of the latest models to pose naked for PETA. A friend seated beside Bjork asked the singer, who has crossed over to become a fashion diva, dressed by young London designers, "Would you do that?"
Bjork took a long look at the poster. She seemed to be thinking it over.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Using spray paint, peer pressure and naked bodies, Dan Mathews, an anti-fur leader, has helped make animal rights the fashion industry's sexiest cause. (Ted Morrison for The New York Times; street sign photo by Lou Manna for The New York Times; stylist: Marianne Rohrlich)(pg. 1); "Cruelty-free" fashion: at the recent Manolo show, Dan Mathews wore a canvas suit, while K. D. Lang wore a black rubber coat. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS VOGUE MAGAZINE (55%); PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (PETA) (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (PETA) (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FUR; ADVERTISING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO ANIMALS ANIMAL RIGHTS (93%); ANIMALS (90%); VANDALISM (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); 

PERSON: MATHEWS, DAN; GABRIEL, TRIP; TURLINGTON, CHRISTY; CAMPBELL, NAOMI RICHARD 'CALVIN' KLEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



5 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Should a School Pay Taxes on Faculty Housing?

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
IN the latest development in a case being watched closely by private schools and local governments around the state, the Town of Windsor has appealed a State Superior Court ruling exempting 25 faculty houses on the Loomis Chaffee School campus from town taxes.
The appeal, filed April 22 in the Appellate Court in Hartford, argues that the houses are not used for educational purposes, as the school successfully contended. 
 The ruling being appealed, issued by Judge Frances Allen in Hartford on March 30, also directed the town to refund $130,000 collected from the century-old school since 1992 when it began taxing the homes and some undeveloped land on the 350-acre campus.
"If the decision had gone against us, we would have appealed," said Dr. John Ratte, headmaster of Loomis Chaffee. "Although we are disappointed that this issue remains unresolved, requiring additional time and expense, and diverting funds that might be better used, it's appropriate to seek confirmation from a higher court."
He indicated that the issue had widespread implications for other independent and private schools, colleges and universities. The suit is expected to go straight to the State Supreme Court.
"In the meantime the schools are under no obligation to keep up payments," said William Narwold of the Hartford office of Cummings & Lockwood, the law firm that represents the school. No new taxes will be billed, nor will any refunds be made, pending the outcome of the appeal. The case is not expected to be resolved until late 1994 or 1995.
The dispute arose when the Town of Windsor levied a $65,000 annual property tax against the faculty houses and two vacant parcels, contending that they were not used strictly for educational purposes as required for tax exemption under Connecticut law.
The school sued the town, asserting its compliance with state tax exemption requirements and with its charter, granted by special act of the General Assembly in 1874 to James and Abigail Chaffee Loomis, founders of the school. The charter guarantees exemption from taxes and it is immunized from legislative repeals or amendments without the consent of the school trustees.
Judge Allen agreed with the school that the undeveloped land was used for the educational purposes of bird-watching and sports, and that faculty members occupying the houses served educational purposes outside the classroom. They act as counselors, entertain students, put up visitors, help out in the dormitories and are on call around the clock for emergencies.
Efforts to overturn tax exemptions are not unusual during economic downturns.
"When money is tight," said Kevin Maloney, spokesman for the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, "towns are concerned about the degree of tax-exempt property within their borders and how it diminishes their ability to get the revenues they need without increasing the burden on taxpaying households and businesses."
Mr. Maloney noted that town services received by tax-exempt school properties -- fire and police protection and public school education of faculty members' children, for example -- invariably came under scrutiny in these situations.
The conference, with its membership of 129 of the state's 169 towns and cities, has been approached by Mr. Morrison to file a friend-of-the-court brief on behalf of the Town of Windsor, which is represented in its appeal by Francis H. Morrison 3d of Day, Berry & Howard, Hartford lawyers.
WHILE some schools actually pay property taxes on faculty housing, others strive to maintain goodwill by providing services to the towns, and in many cases they contribute large annual sums, or gifts, to the local general fund.
Loomis Chaffee does not make cash contributions, but, Dr. Ratte said, "we have worked hard to be a good citizen, providing education for a number of town children who would otherwise attend the public high school at taxpayer expense."
School and town officials are treading softly, unwilling to upset the delicate balance of their relationships.
"We have been fortunate for many years," said Barbara Johnson, Assessor for the Town of Washington, which has three private boarding schools. "Under agreements made years ago, The Gunnery pays us the equivalent of their faculty housing tax -- $21,143 this year," she said. "They do not get a bill. They just send the money."
Rumsey Hall paid the Town of Washington $7,269, and Devereux-Glenholme paid $12,500.
The Gunnery opens its skating rink to the town and Rumsey Hall makes its indoor tennis courts available to the public, both for fees "well below regular rates," said Ms. Johnson. She said she was surprised that the judge had ruled against the Town of Windsor.
Westminster School in the Town of Simsbury has been paying around $44,000 in annual taxes on faculty homes since the 1960's. "My sense of things," said Thomas Earl, business manager for the school, "is that the trustees are happy with the arrangement, and we would do nothing to change it until the outcome of the appeal is known."
Nor will Clarence King, the Town Assessor, remove the taxes pending the appeal. He said that he, too, had been surprised to hear that Windsor had been turned down.
In the Town of Salisbury, 43 children of faculty members of Hotchkiss, Salisbury and Indian Mountain schools are in the public school system, "using $300,000 of taxpayer funds," according to First Selectman Bud Trotta. His attempt in 1992 to obtain permission to tax noneducational buildings did not get out of the state legislature's Planning and Development Committee.
Lauren Elliott, the Salisbury Assessor, said she was not inclined to disturb long-standing arrangements with the schools. Hotchkiss alone contributes $50,000 a year "as a gift," said its business manager, Robert Griesemer. "And I don't think that will change," he said. "The money we contribute goes to the police and fire departments."
KENT SCHOOL and South Kent School pay taxes on faculty housing and have done so for about two decades, according to Patty Braislin, the Kent Assessor, while the Taft School in Watertown contributes up to $70,000 a year in gifts. "We feel a responsibility to continue and we have no plans to change anything," said David A. Mitchell, Taft's business manager.
Mr. Morrison, who represents Windsor, argues that the Superior Court ruling on Loomis Chaffee "applied a standard for faculty houses to be tax exempt which is not the law of Connecticut."
"The houses are not used exclusively for education within the meaning of Connecticut law," he said. "Their primary use is personal. Some husbands, wives and children living in them have no connection with the school."
In addition, he said, "the school takes the position that its charter grants tax exemption to the institution rather than its individual properties, so they can do what they want as long as they continue to provide a free and gratuitous education to boys and girls, as the charter requires. In fact, the school did provide free education until 1970, when it began charging tuition." Dr. Ratte said that the school had begun charging tuition sometime in the early '60's, although before then the school, which is primarily residential, charged for room and board.
"Whatever the wisdom of the legislature was in 1874," he said, "the world has changed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. John Ratte, headmaster at the Loomis Chaffee School in Windsor, with faculty housing behind him. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOOMIS CHAFFEE SCHOOL CUMMINGS & LOCKWOOD (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOOMIS CHAFFEE SCHOOL

GEOGRAPHIC: WINDSOR (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; TAX EXEMPTIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE SCHOOLS; HOUSING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); BIRDING (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR; RATTE, JOHN (DR) EDWARD GEORGE NICHOLAS PAUL PATRICK WINDSOR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



6 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2450 words

HEADLINE: Rises in Mortgage Rates Nudge Buyers

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

 BODY:
THESE should be the best of times for the residential real estate world in the New York area. Sales are on the upswing in much of the region. Sale prices are increasing for most types of homes. Even the long-dormant home-building industry is slowly returning to life.
But uncertainty looms over the rebounding housing market. Rising interest rates, particularly the sharp ascent that began three months ago, have prompted buyers, sellers, brokers and builders to ponder a plethora of questions: How much will rates climb? Will higher rates choke the long-awaited real estate recovery? Does refinancing still make sense? 
 So far, the anxiety over rates has sparked a surge of sales among those who had been cautiously considering buying a home but who feared that rates might rise higher and make doing so less affordable.
"We expect a very strong second quarter of home sales followed by modest declines in the second half of this year, as the rate increases start to take effect," said Rob Rosenblatt, director of surveys and statistics for the Mortgage Bankers Association, a trade group based in Washington.
David Michonski, a manager with the Greenwich, Conn., office of Coldwell Banker Schlott, a real estate brokerage firm, said that most of the recent activity had been among buyers sensitive to mortgage-rate swings. "We have had a tremendous number of buyers at that end of the market," he said.
Sheralyn and Bennet Goodman, for example, bought a four-bedroom colonial-style home in Yorktown, N.Y., last month for $217,850. "We really weren't prepared to do it this soon," Mrs. Goodman said. "But because we had heard a lot of talk about interest rates going up, we decided to do it sooner rather than later."
But for some potential buyers the run-up in rates -- the average fixed-rate 30-year mortgage in the New York metropolitan area increased to 8.55 on April 22 from a 25-year low of 6.87 percent on Oct. 15 -- means they cannot borrow as much money as they intended and thus may not qualify for the home they had planned to buy.
Indeed, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, about 250,000 families in the nation were priced out of the home market in the last six months because of the rising interest rates. The Impact of higher rates on these borrowers, though, has been mitigated by a liberal lending environment and a wide variety of loans available today. "We're not in a tight-money market at all," Mr. Michonski said. "People want to lend and they are finding ways to do it, even with higher rates."
Nationally, sales of previously owned homes rose 5.7 percent in March over the previous month, as buyers rushed to lock in rates in case mortgage rates moved higher, according to the National Association of Realtors, a trade group in Washington. Sales, however, were still lower than in the fourth quarter, when they were running at their highest levels in years.
In most parts of the New York region, brokers said their sales were on the upswing, partly because of the rise in rates and partly because of the pent-up demand following an unusually cold winter. "March was one if the busiest Marches I have ever seen," said Savo Fries, manager of Caldwell Banker Schlott office in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., and president of the Westchester County Multiple Listing Service. "We quadrupled what we had in January and February, and we doubled what we had last March."
THE increased activity has not been felt across the market, according to some brokers. Rising interest rates have negatively affected some wealthy home buyers, said Mr. Michonski, the Greenwhich broker. Many of these prospective buyers are not sensitive to changes in mortgage rates, but they are dissuaded from making large purchases when higher interest rates depress the stock and bond markets.
"There is tremendous nervousness in that end of the market and a sudden reluctance to commit," Mr. Michonski said. "This is the portfolio-sensitive end of the market, and these people look at the value of their portfolio to help them decide whether they are going to feel good. And a lot of these people are not feeling good these days."
The most significant impact of the higher rates has probably been on refinancings, which were popular in 1992 and 1993 when rates were, for the most part, falling. "Refinancings generally end when rates go up," said Keith Gumbinger, an analyst at HSH Associates, an interest rate research company in Butler, N.J. "And recently we have seen a very big decline in refinance applications. Refinancings were representing about half of the mortgage volume. Now it is about 26 percent."
Thad M. McGarr, for instance, wanted to refinance the 9 percent $110,000 mortgage on his town house in the Chelsea section of Manhattan to a 7 percent 30-year fixed-rate loan. But by the time he found a loan in late February 7 percent was no longer available, even with additional points. (A point is a fee charged by the lender equal to 1 percent of the loan.)
"At first, I thought I'd just pay the extra points to get it down to 7 percent," Mr. McGarr said. "Then it went to 7 1/4 and suddenly it jumped over 8 percent. It wasn't worth my time to refinance from 9 percent to 8 percent. Two points lower was economically feasible, but not one."
Homeowners with adjustable-rate mortgages -- which generally adjust on a loan's anniversary date -- have also been affected by higher rates. Their monthly mortgage payments are likely to increase. About 27 percent of all home loans have rates that adjust, most of them annually, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
BORROWERS who took out adjustable loans during the last year or so, though, will still be faring better, at least in the early years of their loans, than those who are currently taking out fixed-rate mortgages. That's because adjustable-rate loans usually have a low "teaser" rate for the first year, an annual 2-percentage-point cap and a 6-percentage-point cap over the life of the loan. So borrowers who last year took out adjustables at rates like 3.75 percent may incur increases only up to 5.75 this year and up to 7.75 in 1995.
Interest on adjustable-rate mortgages is computed by adding a lender mark-up, often 2.75 percent, to the weekly average yield on the one-year Treasury bond. Don't bother, though, looking for an adjustable-rate loan that still has a "teaser" rate at last year's best rates, which bottomed out at about 3 percent. The average initial rate on a one-year adjustable in the New York area rose to 4.93 at midday last Thursday -- the last day for which figures for this article were available -- compared with the low of 4.15 percent last Oct. 29, according to HSH Associates.
But some lenders are more aggressive.
"You can still find some in the 3's, and the low 4's are still widespread, with points, of course," Mr. Gumbinger said.
He added that adjustable-rate mortgages remained popular partly because borrowers, particularly first-time buyers, found it easier to qualify for them because the initial monthly payments were lower. "It is cheaper to get into them than a fixed-rate mortgage," he said. Mr. Gumbinger also said that adjustables could be better long-term buys than fixed-rate loans even if rates continued to rise.
"If you are interested in an adjustable and shop the market aggressively -- because you can still find some at around 4 percent -- then they can make terrific sense," he said. "Your worst-case cap on that kind of loan is going to be 9 1/2 or 10 percent."
Mr. Gumbinger added that on both fixed-rate mortgages and adjustables it was generally not the actual interest rate but the perceived direction that persuaded home shoppers to buy or not to buy.
Mrs. Goodman, for example, said that she believed rates would "just keep going up until they hit 9 percent."
Mr. Rosenblatt noted that rates on most mortgages were currently where they were at the beginning of 1993, when they were the lowest rates since the 1970's.
"Rates are still attractive and near 20-year lows except for last year," he said.
Mr. Gumbinger pointed out that mortgage rates, particularly adjustables, were volatile, varying from region to region and from day to day. For example, the average rate for both 30-year fixed mortgages and adjustable-rate loans as of last Thursday was lower than the rates for the week ended April 22. (Mortgage rates to buy co-op apartments are also higher than for homes and condominiums.)
Mr. Gumbinger also noted that although rates had been generally rising for the last eight months, the amount of the increase had not significantly changed most monthly mortgage payments. He said that the monthly payment on the average 30-year fixed-rate $150,000 mortgage in the New York area increased only $155.75, to $1,140.64, as of last Thursday, when interest rates averaged 8.38 percent, from its low last fall of $984.89 when interest rates averaged 6.87 percent.
The difference in monthly payments is even smaller for adjustable-rate mortgages. Last October, when the first-year rate bottomed at 4.15 percent, the monthly mortgage payment on a $150,000 loan would have been $729.15. Last Thursday, with the average adjustable-rate mortgage rate at 4.93, the payment would have been $798.83.
Borrowers have been unusually keen to ask about locking in rates when they apply for a mortgage these days. They fear not only that increased rates will mean increased mortgage payments and make qualifying more difficult, but also that higher rates may force them to take out longer loans or pay extra points to keep the rate lower.
The Goodmans, for example, locked in their 7.25 percent rate on a 15-year mortgage on April 11. If they had waited a few hours longer, the rate would have increased to 7.5 percent, and the monthly payments on their 2-point loan would have increased by $18.40, to $1,205.12, from $1,186.72. If they had waited a week, the rate would have increased to 7.75 percent, and their payments would have increased by $36.94, to $1,223.66.
THE amounts did not endanger their ability to qualify for a loan. But the higher rates did make it difficult to qualify for the type of loan they preferred. "Had we not been able to lock in 7.25 or lower, we would not have been in a position to get a 15-year mortgage, which in our mind was primary," said Mrs. Goodman, a lawyer.
Most mortgages have free optional 60-day lock-ins guarding against rate increases while a mortgage is in the application process. But the time span for lock-ins can vary from as little as 30 days to as much as 90 days. Some also require a small fee to be paid in advance, and typically that money is credited to the borrower at closing. Should a rate decrease, some loans have provisions for buydowns or relocks, that, for a fee, enable the borrower to take the lower rate.
"People want to lock in a rate at application for 60 to 90 days," said Bruce Lublin, president of Homerica Inc., a mortgage broker in Harrison, N.Y. "It is all dependent on the prevailing direction of interest rates. When rates are stable or declining, people want to float. And when rates appear to be rising, people want to lock in."
Home builders, particularly small developers, are also concerned about the rate rise. Though many are expecting a good year in 1994, some are seeing investors pull out of development deals because they fear higher rates will lead to higher home building costs and fewer buyers able to afford homes.
"It looks like investors are slightly more hesitant than before," said Dave Heller, a contractor with Toll Gate Land Improvement in Massapequa, L.I. "We had a few deals that we were eager to do, now it seems like they are on the shelf."
The National Association of Home Builders, a trade organization in Washington, has projected an 8 percent rise in home construction nationally in 1994 over last year and a 4 percent rise in 1995 -- but only if 30-year mortgage rates are under 8 percent.
"If we stay at these levels or go higher, then we have to revise this forecast," said David F. Seiders, the association's chief economist. Should interest rates climb much further, home construction, which is just now starting to recover after a devastating five-year-long recession in the Northeast, could start to weaken again.
"Obviously, the builders in those parts of the country where the recovery has been slow are chagrined by the rising interest rates, since they are just getting started," Mr. Seiders said. "In the Northeast, we haven't been looking for a strong resurgence, because there is nothing to support it in terms of job growth or household formation, and in some places it is still overbuilt to some degree. So we're looking for a modest increase in the Northeast in construction. But any rate rise will likely keep things flat."
As for the future direction of interest rates, David Lereah, chief economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association, forecasts that -- because of a strengthening economy, rising inflation and further tightening of short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve -- they will continue to increase slowly during 1994, possibly to as much as 8.9 percent by the end of the year and 9.15 percent in 1995.
He further projected that existing home sales would rise by 5 percent in 1994 over 1993 and new homes sales would rise by 6 percent, with a bulk of the increase coming in April, May and June of this year. "The market is peaking and will contract next year as long as rates continue along this road," he said. "There will still be a heck of a lot of people buying homes, but the growth will stop."
BUT others are more optimistic about rates. Peter Mosca, executive director of the New Jersey Association of Realtors, for example, predicted that the rate on 30-year mortgage would fall to 6.8 percent by the end of the year. He added, though, that he did not expect interest rates to have much impact on sales figures for 1994; he projects that sales in New Jersey will be flat or increase slightly over last year, in large part because of low sales figures from the first quarter of this year, which was plagued by unusually bad weather.
Most real estate analysts expect that prices in most parts of the Northeast will appreciate at or slightly above the current inflation rate, which is about 3 percent.
Should inflation pick up, though, home appreciation is likely to be higher.
"There are not a lot of investment vehicles out there right now, and owning one's home is one of the best they can have," Mr. Michonski said, "because real estate is coming out of a period of four dark years, it's leveraged, inflation is rising and there is tremendous up-side potential."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rising rates prompted Sheralyn and Bennet Goodman, shown with son, Andrew, to move up their purchase. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Higher rates made it impractical for Thad M. McGarr to refinance the mortgage on his town house. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "The Mortgage-Rate Roller-Coaster" shows average mortgage rates from 1981 to 1994. (Source: HSH Associates)(pg. 12); "The Cost of Borrowing" shows rates for two common types of motgages. (SOurce: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION (70%); NEW YORK (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGES; SALES REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (87%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FAMILY (72%); CITIES (66%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



7 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: He Who Once Rebuilt New Haven

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
IN the 50's and 60's, when many older American cities were crumbling, Mayor Dick Lee of New Haven knew what to do. During eight consecutive two-year terms from 1953 to 1969, he established a national reputation as a visionary of urban renewal, with a Midas touch to back it up. He was the man who could go down to Washington, on a first-name basis with John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson, and return with thick bundles of Federal money for projects he had dreamed up for New Haven, mostly involving tearing down old buildings and getting someone in the private sector to put up new ones.
He supervised the building of two new public high schools and a dozen elementary schools and was an early proponent of putting up cluster housing that low-income families could buy rather than rent. 
 Mr. Lee also cemented his image as a master of Irish charm; a self-educated man who once headed the Yale News Bureau, although he had never spent a day in college; the man to get as a speaker, because he could enrapture an audience with dozens of stories and the timing of a vaudevillian.
 
A Call From Johnson
 Today, Dick Lee -- practically no one has ever used his formal name, Richard C. -- is 78 and retired from two additional careers, as an executive of United Way and then of a bank. He has not changed much. He still has the gift of gab and the telling punch line, sometimes two.
"In 1966, I was the first mayor in the country to come out against the Vietnam War, and I knew I'd hear from Lyndon," he said. "One night, we're sitting down at supper, and the phone rings. And my son David, who was a little kid then, answers it, and we could hear him say: 'This is dinner hour, and Mommy doesn't allow us to talk on the phone at dinner hour. You'll have to call back.' His mother asked who it was, and he said it was the President who wanted to talk to Daddy."
Within seconds, the phone rang again. It was Lyndon Johnson again. He was unhappy, not about being hung up on by a child but about the audacity of the child's father. "I see you have the only city in the United States with its own foreign policy," the President said.
Mr. Lee saw nothing wrong with that, he said. He still doesn't. To him, New Haven has always been a special place and should be entitled to a foreign policy or two.
He has never considered moving anywhere else, he said. He and his wife, Ellen, still live in the graceful stucco home with the sunken living room he purchased 30 years ago for $42,000 in Westville, one of the city's best sections.
 
City's Problems Hit Home
 But Mr. Lee is very conscious that his city has been in decline since the great age of redevelopment. Its center has been devastated by businesses moving out, and New Haven is afflicted by high crime rates and fear that are not limited to the poor neighborhoods. Several weeks ago, Ellen Lee was mugged and her purse stolen -- in her backyard, just after she had driven her car into the garage.
What has happened to New Haven reflects the migrations in America during the past two decades, Mr. Lee said. Poor people, mostly black and Hispanic, move into the city because they have nowhere else to go, while the white middle class flees to suburbia. When he was Mayor, New Haven was predominately a white city. That is no longer true. "It's a different city today," he said, noting that the public-school population is about 85 percent nonwhite.
But that doesn't bother him, said Mr. Lee, who was always known as a colorblind politician. "I went to grammar school in what was the city's black neighborhood then," he said.
In the summer of 1967, New Haven was added to the list of cities that had experienced the agony of riots. This one disturbance, although it came long after many other cities had succumbed to violence, shook Mr. Lee badly.
The New York Times sympathized with him in an editorial: "To a bitter minority of New Haveners, their city is still no model. But their lawless actions do not mean the city's efforts have been a failure, much less that it is pointless to extend them." Despite the city's troubles, the editorial said, "New Haven and its Mayor are still a model for the nation."
Although New Haven is far from a model city today, Mr. Lee said he was confident that it would somehow find its way again.
"Cities have been surviving since the Roman Empire," he said. "They are bastions of civilizations, the depositories of great books and museums that cannot ever be found in suburbs. And they have great universities like Yale and Harvard. The Peabody Museum here, children flock to it. This city has to survive."
But turning the city around is going to be difficult and take time, he said. "The problems we have here are not going to disappear overnight," he said. "They'll take 25 years, maybe longer, to correct."
The perilous situation of the state's cities has been building for 25 years, Mr. Lee said, since the Federal Government started to reduce its aid in the late 1960's. "What has happened since is years of retrogression on the national level in the effort to reclaim cities and their residents," he said.
Help for all Connecticut cities must come from some sort of regional governmental structures involving the core cities and their suburbs, Mr. Lee said. Coming from the elder statesman of the cities, that is almost revolutionary talk, and he admitted that he probably would not have felt that way 25 years ago.
In retrospect, the abandonment of county government in Connecticut in 1958 "was a grave error," he said. The counties offered frameworks for regional government, "and we had a golden opportunity to press for it while the suburbs, in term of political power, were relatively weak," he said. "We need something like it today. We have to adjust. We have to make hard decisions."
Mr. Lee said he was fully aware that the idea of regional government was not usually applauded in Connecticut, where town lines are regarded as sacrosanct, and relations between cities and suburbs have sometimes been full of hostility. But he noted that two major American cities, Atlanta and Indianapolis, became stronger by absorbing the suburbs around them.
And he said he was confident that some sort of regional approach would emerge in Connecticut when the cities' crime and economic problems reach deeper into the suburbs. "It will occur when everyone recognizes that the crisis now viewed as urban becomes part of all areas surrounding the cities," he said.
While staying out of politics, Mr. Lee keeps working to preserve his city. He is also one of the five proprietors of the Common and Undivided Lands in New Haven, a position established by the General Assembly of the Colony of Connecticut in 1646 to protect the 18-acre New Haven Central Green. The green remains an enduring symbol of New Haven. And so does Dick Lee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: It will take perhaps 25 years, says Dick Lee, former mayor, but New Haven can recapture its dynamism. The trick is to include the suburbs. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FAMILY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL; LEE, RICHARD C JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



8 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 17; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/The Race for High-Tech Media Space;
Communicators Opt for Manhattan

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
TELECOMMUTING, video conferencing, computer networking, mobile fax machines, all are frequently invoked reasons for why the office of the future need not be an office at all. Yet the same communications companies whose magazines and television shows are trumpeting the death of offices are gobbling up Manhattan office space as though it were on fire sale.
"There's just been an explosion of space acquisition by communications companies in New York," said Mitchell Konsker, executive managing director of the real estate firm Galbreath Riverbank. 
 Not all buildings can handle communications companies, with their voracious appetite for power and air-conditioning, their many visitors and their need for round-the-clock access to their space. And those without high, uncluttered roofs that can accommodate transmission equipment are out of the running, at least for radio and television.
But for modern high-tech buildings, or those that can be retrofitted as such, the space race is on. And it is not just for the Viacoms and other well-known companies. It is for the myriad startups as well.
"There's an extraordinary number of new ventures, and even more being planned," said Peter Nelson, an executive director of the real estate firm Cushman & Wakefield.
Indeed, the Washington-based National Cable Television Association says that in 1970 there were 2,490 cable systems in this country; by last year, there were 11,395. And all of those systems require programming, much of which is being done in New York.
"My communications clients collectively have leased hundreds of thousands of square feet of Manhattan production space in the last 12 months," said Michael Laginestra, executive managing director at the Edward S. Gordon Company brokerage.
Examples, and not just from Mr. Laginestra's files, are rife. The Lifetime Network, which has studios in Queens, last year took 75,000 square feet at 825 Eighth Avenue -- Worldwide Plaza, on 50th Street. The Comedy Channel opened up in about 40,000 square feet at 1775 Broadway, at 58th Street, last year, and is looking to expand. Discovery Network has 31,000 square feet at 641 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, and is ready to take more.
Magazines, too, are gaining in numbers. The New York-based Magazine Publishers of America notes that last year 789 new magazines -- a record number -- were started. And, the association notes, nearly all major magazines are headquartered in New York.
Existing publishers, in fact, are on the move. In the last 12 months, New York Law Publishing took 75,000 square feet at 345 Park Avenue South, at 26th Street; Thomas Publishing took 52,000 square feet at 5 Penn Plaza, on Eighth Avenue and 34th Street; Parade Magazine took 73,000 square feet at 711 Third Avenue, at 44th Street.
Last month General Media Entertainment, which publishes Penthouse, Omni and other magazines, sold its headquarters building, 1965 Broadway at 66th Street, to Millennium Partners and is now looking for space.
Many of the publishing moves are being driven by technology.
"For decades, publishing companies kept renewing their leases in older, low-rent buildings," said Mary Ann Tighe, a senior managing director at Edward S. Gordon, who counts Newsweek, General Media and Tribune Company among her clients. "Now they need space that can accommodate their computers and fax machines and satellite dishes."
Newsweek recently left 444 Madison Avenue, the 49th Street building that was its headquarters for 34 years, for 251 West 57th Street, which can better accommodate the electronic mail system and other technologies the company wants to install.
GENERAL MEDIA is looking for about 60,000 square feet that it will use quite differently from the 80,000 it now occupies. Gone will be the huge reference library and morgue, replaced by data on compact disks. Gone, too, will be large or luxurious offices for anyone. In their place will be a video conference room, so editors or artists in different cities can work together. And there will be huge amounts of computer and communications equipment.
"Our offices will be designed for efficiency, not show," said Kathy Keeton, General Media's president. "The money we don't spend on decorating will go into technology."
But with all that technology, are offices necessary at all?
"Sure, our people can interact by computer, but human nature is such that people still want their bit of space," Ms. Keeton said.
For Ms. Keeton, who lives in New York, leaving the city was not an option. But not all publishers may feel so constrained -- a fact that does not escape New York's officials.
"We have to recognize that the technological barriers to starting new publications elsewhere are gone," said Adam Friedman, director of economic development for Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan, whose office is now finishing a report that discusses how best to retain New York's status as publishing capital of the world.
The city does have things in its favor. A summary that the Magazine Publishers group prepared for Ms. Messinger's staff notes that New York is where the advertising agencies are, and that, with all the job switching magazine people seem to do, employers who want to catch the best ones in transit had best be in Manhattan.
"There's a perception that if you are out of New York, you are out of the ball game," said Edward J. Ziek, president of the Manhattan consulting firm Savant Communications.
For TV shows, it may not just be perception. Unlike the print media, television reporters and producers cannot rely heavily on telephone interviews. And many news sources are here. Even Cable News Network, based in Atlanta, produces its business shows in New York, most at 5 Penn Plaza, because most financial newsmakers are here.
"New York is the food capital of the world," said Reese W. Schonfeld, a co-founder of CNN and now president of the Television Food Network, which in January started up in about 20,000 feet of space at 1177 Avenue of the Americas, near 45th Street. "We have live shows, and we need to be someplace guests can easily come to."
Whittle Communications' Medical News Network, which is beamed to doctors' offices, is produced in 19,000 square feet of concourse space at 1251 Avenue of the Americas, at 50th Street. The show is interactive, in that doctors can request via computer more information on, say, a featured drug.
"The doctors may be all over, but this is where the pharmaceutical companies are," said Mr. Konsker, who brokered the deal.
OF course, New York doesn't have a hammerlock on media companies. Maurice Solomon, a vice chairman of the Julien J. Studley real estate firm, recently moved Broadcasting Partners, which owns six radio stations, from 10,000 square feet at 1700 Broadway, at 53d Street, to 15,000 square feet at Newport Office Tower in Jersey City. It was a good deal, Mr. Solomon said, with a great location for a rooftop antenna. USA Network also took space at Newport Tower -- although it has also expanded at 1230 Avenue of the Americas, on 48th Street.
But Manhattan offers some bargains of its own, particularly for companies that do not insist on Class A midtown space. There is a lot of industrial and studio space, with skyhigh ceilings, loading docks for handling props and parking space for news vans, that are easily converted to television use.
Time Warner's New York City News Channel -- known to almost everyone as Channel 1 -- is operating out of 27,000 square feet in a converted industrial building at 460 West 42d Street. Mr. Nelson, their broker, says they first wanted space downtown, to be near City Hall and Brooklyn, or midtown, to be near Time Warner executives. Most of the space they looked at was prettier; but the West 42d street space worked better -- and, at about $15 a square foot a year, was a lot cheaper.
"The timing, the price, the ceiling height, everything was right," Mr. Nelson said.
Once the newer midtown networks are more established, they may seek bargains as well. Television Food Network took a four-year lease, at the end of which Mr. Schonfeld fully expects to move to cheaper quarters.
"Once our guests feel it is important to them to be on our shows, they'll travel a bit more to reach us," Mr. Schonfeld said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reese W. Schonfeld, president of Television Food Network, in a studio at 1177 Avenue of the Americas. (Arnie Schissel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); NEW YORK LAW PUBLISHING CO (51%); MEDIA ENTERTAINMENT (50%); NATIONAL CABLE TELEVISION ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CABLE TELEVISION ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; OFFICE BUILDINGS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUTING (79%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (75%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (64%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H KATHY KEETON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



9 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 20; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Disability Applicants Crowd Offices

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH WISSNER-GROSS 

 BODY:
A VISITOR to the crowded Social Security office in Mineola on a Monday morning might imagine that there is a retirement boom in Nassau and Suffolk Counties. The timing coincides with the graying of a generation that moved to the suburbs after World War II, as well as the shrinking and relocation of corporations, particularly military contractors.
But Social Security Administration statistics indicate that the steady increase in the number of retirees is not the major cause of the bustle at branch offices. The change stems largely from a sharp increase in people who are seeking disability benefits, according to a regional spokesman for Social Security, John Clark, and that mirrors a national trend. 
 Applications for benefits have been increasing significantly nationally, Mr. Clark said. That does not mean that Americans are becoming more accident prone. The Social Security Administration attributes much of the increase to high unemployment rates along with cutbacks at large companies. The agency has seen a "tie-in to the state of the economy," Mr. Clark said.
 
Nontransferable Skills
 "More people come in and file for disability benefits when the economy is slower and more people are out of work," Mr. Clark said. "Individuals who a few years ago might have been able to go out to the labor market to give it a try now apply for disability benefits to get some money coming into the household."
On Long Island many workers have been unable to transfer their specialized skills to other industries. "People are grasping for straws to bring some money into the household," Mr. Clark said.
Workers who lose their jobs at banking institutions on the Island are more likely to have readily translatable skills, said a labor analyst, Gary Huth. Job hunting, he added, is more difficult for workers at military contractors, "where there are fewer comparable jobs for people to transfer to."
He said rapid technological changes in businesses could be barriers to older workers who may view themselves as less adaptable than their younger colleagues or whose companies may perceive them as less adaptable. An end result, Mr. Huth said, is that people are retiring earlier than they would have. Workers too young to retire are pursuing disability benefits more aggressively, Mr. Clark added.
 
Reflection of National Trend
 The Long Island statistics reflect anational trend, Mr. Clark said. Officials expect three million Americans to apply for disability benefits this year. That would be an 18 percent increase over 1993, which showed an increase of 23 percent over 1992.
Consistent with elsewhere the percentage of Long Islanders eligible for retirement benefits has been steadily increasing. According to the 1990 Census, 20.2 percent of Nassau County residents were over 60, compared to 1970, when the figure was 11.8 percent. Likewise, 14.2 percent were over 65 in 1990 compared to 7 percent in 1970, and 5.2 percent were over 75 in 1990, compared to 2.9 in 1970.
Nassau developed rapidly in the 40's, 50's and 60's. Western Suffolk saw major development largely in the 60's and 70's.
"Many people who came to Long Island at this time are at retirement," said Dr. Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Regional Planning Board. Dr. Kamer added that the business climate since the late 80's had encouraged many companies to reduce payrolls by offering early retirement packages, buyouts and other incentives.
The Social Security offices have seen their workloads soar as staffing has been cut. Nationally, the agency has 64,000 employees, compared to 80,000 in 1984.
On a recent Friday afternoon in Mineola 15 people waited for help. But the waiting time for people without appointments ranged from 10 minutes to two hours, depending on the help that they needed. A woman who said she had been waiting for almost two hours to inquire about disability benefits looked around nervously, wondering whether she had time to add coins to her parking meter before meeting a representative. The woman said she had been told not to leave the office, because she would be called soon. Eventually, someone behind the counter told her that she could run out to the meter.
Social Security officials said most inquiries arrived through toll-free telephone calls. The agency advises people to use the phone first, instead of going to offices to obtain information. For people seeking records of earnings or estimates of benefits, a toll-free number, (800) 772-1213, directs how to obtain the information, a process that can take two weeks by mail.
For people who want to speak to a representative, however, it is not unusual to be kept on hold for a long time. On a recent Thursday morning, the wait was approximately six minutes, a recording said. On a Tuesday morning a 20-minute wait lasted more than a half-hour. Most office visits are scheduled through appointments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DISABILITY INSURANCE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); COUNTIES (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); SUBURBS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: CLARK, JOHN; WISSNER-GROSS, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



10 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 23; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Future Homemakers Meeting Draws 800

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON 

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN

 BODY:
THE Future Homemakers of America, a national nonprofit organization for middle and high school students enrolled in home economics, lets others argue the modern question of what constitutes a family. The organization, endorsed by the Office of Vocational and Adult Education of the United States Department of Education, begins where sociologists leave off -- preparing young people to live responsibly in their families and communities.
"We are the builders of homes, homes for America's future," reads the organization's creed. "We have the clear consciousness of seeking old and precious values." Nearly 800 young people chanted those words at the closing ceremony of the yearly New York State Future Homemakers of America Leadership Meeting, held recently at the Westchester Marriott here. The students, from communities across the state, had just concluded three days of workshops, competitions and socializing. 
 "I don't want to leave -- it's just so much fun," said Asia Dawson, an eighth grader at the Dr. Alfred M. Franko Middle School in Mount Vernon, who had helped keep events running smoothly in her volunteer role as a room monitor. "You get to stay in a hotel with your friends for three days! And you have a job."
 
'It's Sort of Corny'
 If the old values once included sewing one's own prom dress and learning to cook sensible dinners for two, then home economics today is not the course many Americans remember. Asia, for example, was excited about wearing a new store-bought purple-and-red party outfit to a dance sponsored by the Westchester Marriott on the second evening of the conference.
Cooking was not on the agenda at all, except for some tips about vegetarian cuisine offered during a workshop on the benefits of vegetarianism.
"It's not about cooking and sewing," said Kylie Yerka, an eighth grader from Verona in Oneida County. "You learn a lot of leadership things."
Her friend Corinne Wheeler added, "It's more about speaking."
Kylie said, "You do stuff in your community."
Corinne began to giggle. "It's sort of corny," she said.
Corny or not, the girls were serious about an event called Illustrated Talk, in which five winners of local competitions were competing on the state level. The talks ranged from understanding AIDS to Kylie's subject of racism. Each speaker was given points in areas like presentation style, visual aids and content. The winner would represent the state at the national meeting in Orlando, Fla., in July.
The talks took place in a conference room in front of a small audience and three judges. As in the other competitive events, in which students described businesses they had designed or demonstrated their knowledge of parliamentary procedure, the judges were drawn from the business community or were Future Homemakers of America officials.
 
Constructive Criticism
 Kylie, a thin blond girl with her straight hair parted in the middle, used black-and-white hand puppets in her talk about the importance of good communication in sensitive relationships. Words like "sender, receiver, message, feedback" were written on a poster she had placed on a easel, while a version of Rodney King's remark, "Why can't we just get along?" was written on a sign in front of her.
After the judges had finished evaluating her speech, one of them, Larry Nault, offered Kylie some constructive criticism. "Your body language and eye contact were excellent, and you will be a great performer someday," said Mr. Nault, an engineer for a consulting firm in Tarrytown. "But this is a controversial subject with four dimensions, and you only presented one dimension. It was pitched to the emotions. It was 'nice.' "
He suggested she seek a more complex understanding of her subject, just as he later told Carrie Kahanic, an eighth grader from Falconer in Chautauqua County, that her talk needed more substance. Carrie, in a well-rehearsed speech, spoke on the importance of reading to children, surrounded by picture books and a poster citing the benefits of reading.
 
Thinking and Leadership
 "Your visual aids were good," Mr. Nault said, after Carrie had read aloud from three of the books and exhorted young people to read to children in hospitals. "But here is a hint. What does it mean to be illiterate and not ever to read?"
Subjecting their efforts to such scrutiny helps build the students' character and hones their critical-thinking skills, Future Homemakers officials say. Other goals of the group, which is supported primarily by student membership dues and run largely by the students themselves, are focused on what the organization says are the leadership abilities needed in the home and workplace: planning, problem solving, decision making and interpersonal communication.
"We are helping kids work toward self-esteem and realize their potential at an earlier age," said Maryann Whitney, a home economics teacher from Falconer. Middle school isn't too soon, she said, "to start looking at the whole focus of having a family and having a career -- to integrate the two."
The language in the group's brochures is devoid of sexism, and about 20 percent of the members of Future Homemakers are boys. The organization hopes to attract more boys, said Peg Helt, a consultant to the group, since both boys and girls are required to take home economics courses in order to graduate.
 
Complexities of Modern Life
 But some issues are still outside the group's scope. There is that pesky question of what constitutes a family. And despite a demanding competition called Job Interview -- in which students write application letters, supply recommendations and are interviewed at the conference for a hypothetical job, after which they have about 15 minutes in which to compose a follow-up letter -- there was nothing on the agenda about child-care issues posed by working parents. Instead, a mist of hopefulness about adult life floated through the meeting.
"I definitely want kids and a family and a career in financial planning," said Carrie, whose mother is a home economics teacher. She added, however, that she hadn't thought about "how I will take care of my kids" if both she and her future mate worked outside the home.
Ms. Helt said individual chapters of Future Homemakers delved into the complexities of modern life differently. In the same way, individual students make varying uses of the opportunities offered by the group.
Jessica Hendrickson, for example, said she became confident enough with people to run a well-attended workshop on vegetarianism, complete with samples of soybeans, seaweed and blended fruit drinks. A 12th grader from Falconer who will attend the Culinary Institute of America next fall, Jessica said her five years in Future Homemakers had been invaluable. "It has made me grow up so much," she said. "I can speak in front of people."
Jessica, whose mother assisted her at the workshop and who explained the health aspects of a nonmeat diet, said her goal was to own a French gourmet restaurant.
Cooking with cream and butter and offering traditional recipes that included meat? "Yes, all that stuff," Jessica said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In speech to the Future Homemakers of America, Angela Lange used a homemade poster. (Roberta Hershenson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FUTURE HOMEMAKERS OF AMERICA MOUNT VERNON NEON (55%); FUTURE HOMEMAKERS OF AMERICA (96%); FUTURE HOMEMAKERS OF AMERICA (96%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FUTURE HOMEMAKERS OF AMERICA FUTURE HOMEMAKERS OF AMERICA (96%); FUTURE HOMEMAKERS OF AMERICA (96%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TARRYTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOME ECONOMICS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); MEAT FREE DIETS (69%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA KYLIE YERKA (83%); CARRIE KAHANIC (63%); LARRY NAULT (60%); CORINNE WHEELER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



11 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Washington Growing as a Financial Angel to Industry

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IMAGINE being able to place a drop of blood on a computer chip and get an instant analysis of its DNA structure. Then you could produce a device so simple that a family doctor could determine a person's genetic predisposition to cancer during a routine checkup.
Far-fetched? Not for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the technology arm of the Commerce Department. It is giving a consortium that includes Beckman Instruments and the Baylor College of Medicine $9.2 million to develop just such a computer chip. 
 Those who think they have just stumbled onto a revolutionary new technology, one that seems so outlandish that no one will invest in it, now have a generous new patron: the Clinton Administration.
Fifteen months after President Clinton took office, the Government's research money -- currently $70 billion -- is increasingly being redirected from military projects aimed at national security toward commercial ventures intended to help industry.
That aggressive stance was dramatically demonstrated last week, when the Pentagon announced a $1 billion 10-year program to underwrite the development of a commercial industry to make flat-panel displays, the thin screens used in everything from aircraft cockpit displays to laptop computers to the goggles for virtual reality video games.
The flat-panel display industry is dominated by Japanese companies like Sharp, Toshiba and NEC. Citing the need for greater "economic security," the Pentagon plan calls for spurring the construction of four for-profit manufacturing plants. The support will come by offering the research money only to companies or consortiums that commit themselves to building factories.
But the flat-panel effort is only part of a larger shift.
While it is difficult to put a precise amount on the Administration's total budget for commercial technology ventures, the amount adds up to several billion dollars over the next few years. The Clinton Administration has said it would eventually like to channel as much as 20 percent of the $25 billion now spent by the Federal laboratories in commercial rather than military ventures. That would be up from about 5 percent under the Bush Administration.
The Pentagon, through its Advanced Projects Research Agency and through other groups, is shifting $473 million this year into research aimed at helping military contractors enter the civilian world. The National Institute of Standards and Technology, part of the Commerce Department, is spending $200 million this year on joint technology ventures with private companies, and that budget is slated to reach $750 million in 1997. The Energy Department is trying to shift work at the huge national laboratories to joint ventures with industry -- such as its program to work on a "clean car" with automobile companies.
Grants, usually awarded only to companies that match the Government's contribution with an equal amount of their own money, range from as little as $50,000 to many millions of dollars. Recipients range from start-ups to giants like I.B.M. and General Motors.
In Ann Arbor, Mich., the national institute has awarded a start-up company called Aastrom Biosciences Inc. a grant to develop a method for breeding human blood stem cells, the progenitor for all types of human blood cells. In California, a group led by the Hughes Aircraft Corporation received a $12.2 million award from the Pentagon this year to develop collision-avoidance systems for trucks.
The Bell Atlantic Corporation, the telecommunications company, received $15.8 million from the Pentagon to develop a network of medical data bases that hospitals could tap over long-distance lines. Bell Atlantic's grant came from the Pentagon's Technology Reinvestment Program, which was originally billed as a program to help military contractors adapt their technology to peacetime purposes.
The Commerce Department's research budget has been the greatest beneficiary of the Administration's new emphasis on commercial, as opposed to military, research. The department, through the National Institute of Standards and Technology, has been seeking to finance projects that have great commercial potential but little private investment. Last week, the institute spelled out five broad areas of technology that it would emphasize over the next several years.
Winnowed from 550 "white papers" submitted by industry, the winning areas include:
* DNA diagnostic technology (like the Beckman-Baylor venture);
* Manufacturing techniques for advanced composite materials;
* Modular software programs that can be connected like so many building blocks;
* Electronic information networks to improve the health-care system;
* Computer-guided systems for manufacturing in electronics.
"The whole idea is to do things that are just beyond the reach of the private R.&D. dollar," said Arati Prabhakar, director of the institute. "In every program, there's a glorious dream. But in every program, there is also a technical barrier that a company cannot overcome just with its own investment."
The Bush Administration, hewing to free-market theories, deplored such efforts as nonsensical. If a technology has great commercial promise, the argument goes, it should be able to attract private investment. If it can't attract investors, it may not have commercial value.
Dr. Prabhakar acknowledged the tension, but disputed the criticism of free-market advocates. "I don't think it's news there are things that are important for economic growth and that aren't addressed by private investment," she said. "I view what we are doing as an American experiment to explore the effective tools for government and industry to tackle problems together."
Economists have historically been skeptical about the ability of the Government to make decisions that are better than those of the private sector, and many critics worry that Federal money can easily be diverted to "pork barrel" projects advocated by well-connected companies and members of Congress.
Accusations of special-interest awards have already surfaced. Last year, the Advanced Research Projects Agency awarded $50 million to OIS Optical Imaging Systems Inc. of Troy, Mich., which plans to build a small plant for making flat-panel displays. Critics say the company received the award in part because of language written into an appropriations bill by a Democratic Congressman to suit the Michigan company. OIS executives have denied any special treatment.
But supporters of Administration policy say most of the new programs have remained clear of political cronyism. They also argue that the Administration has reduced its risk by demanding that companies match Federal money with their own and by identifying its own goals more specifically.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (54%); 6502 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (72%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (72%); SIC3821 LABORATORY APPARATUS & FURNITURE (72%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: BECKMAN COULTER INC (72%); TOSHIBA CORP (54%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS & TECHNOLOGY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS & TECHNOLOGY (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RESEARCH; FEDERAL AID (US) ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); DNA (90%); BUDGETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (87%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); FAMILY PRACTICE (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); AVIONICS (73%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS MFG (71%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (68%); JOINT VENTURES (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (64%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (64%); VIRTUAL REALITY (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ANDREWS, EDMUND L BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



12 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: April 24-29

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
In a Changing Air-Travel Market, Delta Tries a Fresh Start
It was the latest admission that the business of air travel has changed -- for good. Back when a plane ticket was a luxury item, not a well-worn commodity like a pair of jeans, airlines used to make a lot of money. But then came rough-and-tumble upstarts like Southwest, and travelers discovered they could save money. Other airlines have attacked costs to some extent -- whether giving workers part ownership in return for concessions, or creating separate no-frills mini-airlines. But last week Delta -- which has few union workers -- said, in effect, that it was starting from scratch, announcing a drastic cutback of up to 15,000 workers, 20 percent of its force. The goal: cut costs by $2 billion a year -- to get its crucial cost for a "seat mile" way down from among the industry's highest. "It's extraordinary, unprecedented," said one analyst, a "fundamental recognition" that market changes are permanent. 

An About-Face for Prudential
As various recent events remind us, corporate America has its fair share of misdeeds. But it takes a brave underling to point them out to the boss, especially if they're big misdeeds, because the boss may not want to know -- and could lash out at the whistle-blower. When Mark Jorgensen, portfolio manager for two Prudential real estate funds, told his bosses the funds' values were being inflated, he was transferred and eventually dismissed. He filed suit, starting a six-month battle. But last week, after outside lawyers and auditors looked things over, Prudential suddenly said Mr. Jorgensen had been right after all, praised his "courage and conviction," offered him his job back (he declined) and said it would pay perhaps $50 million to make fund investors whole. It was a rare mea culpa.
 
A Philip Morris Nicotine Study
Philip Morris, which says smoking is not addictive, got some powerful evidence to the contrary a decade ago, then scrapped the research. That, at any rate, is what two of its former researchers told a House panel last week. They said they'd found another substance in cigarettes as addictive as nicotine, and that the two combined were powerfully addictive. Not only that, but they were on the trail of an artificial nicotine that was gentler on the heart. But Philip Morris, they said, ended the study abruptly in 1983 and swore them to silence. A company spokesman, though, called the hearing "shameful" and said it was full of "scientific sensationalism."
 
Auto Profits Soar! (Yawn.)
The nation's auto rebound is such a fact of life that even mighty profits evoke yawns. When two Detroit giants posted huge gains last week, nobody batted an eye. First General Motors said quarterly income was up 66 percent, and a day later came Ford's report: profits were up 58 percent. But G.M.'s stock actually fell at first before breaking even for the day, and Ford's was up a fraction. But how long can this last? When all those people who sputtered through the hard times finally get their new wheels, who'll do the buying?
 
A Lift for U.S. Technology
Flat-panel displays, now used mainly in laptop computers, represent what many see as hot items for the future -- they could turn up in car dashboards, airplane cockpits or portable maps. So America wants to stay on top of this technology. In the past it has simply paid contractors to build special factories -- and then faced the choice of paying high prices to those often inefficient factories, or buying abroad. But last week it came up with a new way: subsidize the industry with up to $1 billion in research grants. The hope is that this will prove cheaper in the long run, and will dispel any doubts about national security.
 
Soda and Schools: A Bad Mix?
Many new parents start out with lofty nutritional ideas: no junk, they vow, for my pure little darlings. Then reality starts seeping in -- as, say, children denied soda at home gleefully discover it in school vending machines. Now a Senator wants Washington to extend a parental hand. Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat, introduced a bill last week that would urge schools to limit, even ban, the sale of soft drinks. If schools sell soda, said one supporter of the bill, it suggests that they're more interested in students' "dollars than their health." Coca-Cola, understandably miffed, mounted a lobbying counterattack, with a Coke spokesman insisting soda "can be part of a balanced diet." But Mr. Leahy says, "If Coke wins, children lose."
 
What Did the Teamsters Win?
The 23-day truckers' strike apparently ended last week when the Teamsters reached a tentative settlement with the trucking companies. Truckers claimed a partial victory, in blocking a move to allow part-time workers. But the flip side is that goods moved freely during the strike, whether on nonunion trucks or by rail, so the strike really underscored how the union's power has shrunk. The test: will union truckers get that business back?
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Pay Steady, but Spirits Up
Americans, it seems, don't need hefty raises to feel good about the economy. Last week came a report that average pay rose just 0.7 percent in the first three months of the year -- the smallest quarterly rise since 1986. Yet consumer confidence, as tracked by the Conference Board, surged in April to its highest level in four years. This mix of statistics could be a sign, right down at the paycheck level, that there's really no fear that inflation will erode salaries. Or it could be that these days just having a job is enough to make people feel good about the future; they realize fancy raises are not in the cards just now.
 
Slow Growth (With Footnotes)
On the surface, last week's main gauge of inflation seemed to show that the Federal Reserve is overly jittery in raising rates. After the gross domestic product grew at a fast 7 percent rate at the end of 1993, first-quarter growth came in at a tame 2.6 percent rate. But numbers rarely make an entrance these days without an entourage of footnotes, and this was no exception. Growth, it was quickly pointed out, was stunted by California's earthquake and everyone else's weather -- not to mention weak exports. And other numbers showed inflationary pressures -- like personal consumption, which grew at a brisk 3.8 percent rate even in winter's gloom. So a G.D.P. report that might have been cause for relaxation instead gave way to a new flurry of inflation fears.
 
So That's Where Mom Is All Day!
It was a busy week, with Take Our Daughters to Work Day hard on the heels of Take a Disgraced Ex-President Back Into Your Heart Day. Three million girls took part in this second annual pilgrimage (three times last year's level), and they spliced phone cable, mixed chemicals, designed video games, typed timeless prose on Mom's keyboard and made countless photocopies of their hands. The idea was to show girls age 9 to 15 (when they're said to start deferring to boys) that there's a place for women in the working world. But dissent nibbled at the event's edges. Some companies, like Chrysler, bowed out because boys were excluded. And in Ohio, a mother of six wanted her daughter to see how busy she was at home, but the school principal balked at first, saying homemaking was not an occupation. And one girl made an interesting point: if the next generation's attitudes are to be more enlightened, shouldn't boys witness women at work, too?
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Help for Mexico's Peso . . .
When the United States, Canada and Mexico had the sweeping vision of a North American Free Trade Agreement, they surely knew any currency disruption would throw things out of whack. But they probably didn't think trouble would arise so quickly. No sooner did the pact take effect on Jan. 1 than the peso started to crumble, battered by a peasant revolt and the killing of a top presidential candidate. So last week the three nations grabbed for a Band-Aid, setting up a $6.7 billion line of credit that Mexico's central bank can draw on to stabilize the peso. Of course, Band-Aids make sense only if there's healing going on below.
 
. . . and a Lid on the Yen
Up to a point, the United States loves a strong yen -- it makes Japanese products more expensive here, and less competitive. But currency speculators must have decided there can't be too much of that good thing, for they've sent the dollar near its lowest point against the yen since World War II. But too strong a yen could fuel inflation at home (costly or not, Japanese goods flow in), so last week the Fed intervened to prop up the dollar -- with Treasury Secretary Bentsen making the highly unusual move of announcing it.
 
American Tobacco Goes Home
At one time, the sun rarely set on American Tobacco. In 1902, with 90 percent of the American market, it formed B.A.T. Industries with a British partner. But American Tobacco, its B.A.T. stake long gone and now part of American Brands, became a minor player in an industry steadily shrinking in the face of health concerns. And last week, completing a cycle in a way, American Brands said it was selling American Tobacco to B.A.T., which already has its own small share of this nation's smoking market. So American Brands gets out of the antismoking glare, and B.A.T. becomes more of a force in the industry.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Victor DeNoble, ex-smoking researcher. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); A nonunion trucker in Denver. (Michael Lewis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS DIARY (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); LITIGATION (68%); SMOKING (66%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LAWYERS (62%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



13 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Fiat Looks Beyond the Bad Old Days

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: TURIN, Italy

 BODY:
FIAT S.p.A., Italy's largest private company, is beginning to approach its businesses as if guided by the adage that the prospect of the gallows can do wonders to focus the mind.
The company is overhauling itself. It is in the midst of a $24 billion program to bring out 18 new models in the next two years. It is shedding some businesses. It is streamlining and strengthening its farm-equipment unit. It is bidding to supply high-speed trains in the United States. And it has changed the balance of power on its board in return for new investment. 
 Fiat's situation is familiar to most of Italy's big private corporations these days. They are under great pressure to reinvent themselves after several years of numbing recession and after jarring revelations of payments to politicians for favors.
Among the most visible changes at Fiat are in its automobile division. Some of the 18 new Fiat, Lancia and Alfa-Romeo models are large luxury cars, an effort to shed the image of a small-car maker and capitalize on the high margins that the bigger cars fetch. In recent months, Fiat has also brought out cars like the Punto, a compact, and a two-door coupe called the Coupe. Both have softer, less boxy lines than, say, the Uno, which the Punto replaced; the idea is to respond to the popular teardrop look of sharp new competitors like Renault's Twingo and Opel's redesigned Corsa.
The revamping conspicuously includes Alfa-Romeo, the maker of large luxury cars that Fiat acquired in 1987 but which many have said it neglected. This year, four new Alfas will be introduced, including two flashy sports models Fiat hopes will revive Alfa's sodden image.
There's also a wider use of safety features, like air bags, and engines have been redesigned for more power and fuel efficiency, especially in the bigger models, like the Alfa-Romeos.
Fiat is no longer pursuing a big auto merger, but it does seek profitable joint projects. Later this year, it will introduce two versions of a passenger van developed with Peugeot and manufactured initially at Peugeot factories in France.
The company has also shed baggage, selling units that make components like filters and spark plugs, and shifting its Rinascente department-store chain to a holding company controlled by the clan of Gianni Agnelli, Fiat's 73-year-old chairman.
But the biggest changes recently have come in farm machinery. Fiat has combined its farm-equipment division with that of New Holland, the farm-machinery business acquired from Ford in 1991. In the process, it has eliminated duplication and cut the combined unit's work force to 18,000 from 30,000, and strengthened marketing and distribution networks.
The New Holland acquisition represented a big step into the North American market. But except for that, Fiat, which stopped direct sales of Fiat models in North America more than a decade ago, says it has no further plans for the United States, where it also sells several thousand Alfa-Romeos through specialty-car dealers. Instead it is focusing its auto business on Eastern Europe, using a big car factory in Poland as a bridgehead, and Latin America, where it holds a 30 percent share of the Brazilian market.
Fiat's railway division, a leader in so-called tilting trains with roughly 70 percent of the European market, is part of a consortium with Morrison Knudsen of the United States that is bidding to supply high-speed trains for Amtrak's Boston-to-Washington line.
"I believe the real battle for the European market is coming later this decade, and we want to be equipped for it," said Giorgio Garuzzo, Fiat's 55-year-old chief operating officer. With automobiles now generating about 42 percent of group sales, Fiat's mix of cars and other products and services will remain "rather stable," he said.
THE gallows that focused Fiat's attention took the form of a brutal collapse of Europe's car market, with Fiat hardest hit. With recession squeezing hard, Fiat's car sales plummeted 20.6 percent last year, to 1.27 million cars. Most analysts attributed the big drop to a lack of model renewal. "The reason was largely an over-aged product line," said John Lawson, of DRI-McGraw Hill in London.
The drop came as a 1991 European accord allowed Japan's share of the Italian market to rise last year from 3 percent, to 4 percent; it is expected to reach 8 percent by the end of the century.
The recession bit deeply into Fiat's other businesses, like the Iveco truck and bus division, industrial products and machinery. With group sales down nearly 2 percent in 1993, to $32.5 billion, Fiat announced an estimated loss of $1.05 billion, its first since 1979.
Complicating matters, Fiat executives came under fire in connection with Italy's big kickback scandals. Mr. Agnelli acknowledged last year that the company had paid the equivalent of $33 million in kickbacks over 10 years. He said the amounts were paid in dribs and drabs, and he denied that senior executives gave approval.
Still, several senior managers, including Mr. Garuzzo, were held for questioning, though none have been charged. Mr. Garuzzo was questioned about reports of illegal payments made to politicians in Milan in return for purchases of Iveco buses for the city bus system.
All of this might have been manageable but for what had gone before. In the 1980's, Mr. Garuzzo said, Fiat was scissored between Italy's high inflation rate, which was ratcheted up by an indexation system linking wages to consumer price growth, and an overvalued lira, which was locked into Europe's monetary grid.
With labor costs soaring -- and with them the prices Fiat charged for its cars -- the inevitable occurred. Aggressive competitors like Ford Europe and Renault invaded Italy with popular models like the Renault Clio and Ford Fiesta, collapsing Fiat's share of the home market to 45 percent, from roughly 60 percent a decade earlier.
Worse, Fiat was essentially broke. And last July, Mr. Agnelli announced that Fiat's net debt would probably triple in the year, to about $7 billion.
Then, in September, the company resorted to a capital increase of $3 billion, providing the breather needed to pursue its investment program. The new money -- from French and German investors, led by the Alsthom Alcatel electronics group and the Deutsche Bank -- changed the nature of the company Mr. Agnelli's grandfather founded here in Turin in 1899.
The reason: in return for the injection of capital, Fiat's governing structure was shifted so that a seven-vote majority of its nine-member board, which sets long-term policy and appoints management, was now required for a decision. This meant that, for the first time, the two Agnelli family members on the board would be unable alone to command a decisive majority, effectively surrendering family control of Fiat.
AS testimony to Mr. Agnelli, the new investors requested that he and Cesare Romiti, the 70-year-old chief executive and Mr. Agnelli's right-hand man, forgo retirement until 1995.
Still, Fiat is no gerontocracy, and the heirs to power are men in their 40's and 50's like Mr. Garuzzo and Paolo Cantarella, 49, the head of the car division. But analysts generally credit Fiat management with the right steps to position themselves for that moment.
"They pulled in their horns in every respect except product development," said Steve Saxty, of Karl E. Ludvigsen Associates, an automobile consultancy in London. "That's very risky, and you have to give them credit for it."
Mr. Garuzzo acknowledged that relief had begun in 1992, when the collapse of the lira enabled the then Prime Minister, Giuliano Amato, to pull it out of the European grid, effectively devaluing the currency, and then to cajole labor leaders into ending wage indexation. With that, he said, Italy's labor costs have become more favorable.
Some of the decisions were obvious. Though producing large cars under its Fiat, Lancia and Alfa-Romeo brand names, Fiat has never quite shaken the image of the small-car maker, thus forfeiting margins enjoyed by luxury manufacturers like Mercedes-Benz. And the New Holland acquisition seemed made in heaven, because Fiat's farm machinery division focuses on mature markets like Italy, France and Spain, while New Holland offered access to the United States, northern Europe and Brazil.
With the revival in the United States, Fiat officials expect New Holland to be profitable this year, and other divisions, like Iveco, are also improving..
In a recent meeting with bankers, Fiat's chief financial officer, Francesco Paolo Mattioli, estimated that group sales would rise 13 percent in 1994 over last year, to $36 billion.
Mr. Cantarella of the car division said a lot will depend on Europe's automobile market. Fiat's car division had losses last year, and he said it is too early to say whether it will break even this year.
To bring this about, Fiat has a wish list for the new Government that the big winner in March's elections, Silvio Berlusconi, is forming. First of all, it wants special Government rebates to buyers who traded in older cars, similar to what France and Spain offer. Mr. Berlusconi's advisers are said to be favorable. Then, Fiat wants Government backing to freeze the Japanese share at present levels, at least until the recession lets up.
The prospect of help on the way prompted investors on the national stock market in Milan to push Fiat's share price up 33 percent in the month since the elections, to 6,900 lire on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Giorgio Garuzzo, chief operating officer, says Fiat is arming for battle. Among the new models are bigger, higher-margin cars like the Lancia Delta. (Photographs by Maki Galimberti/Daylight)
 
Graphs showing Fiat's group sales and net income from 1988 to 1993 and business lines in 1993. (Source: Fiat S.p.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (98%); F (BIT) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (98%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%); 

CITY: TURIN, ITALY (79%); 

COMPANY: FIAT SPA FIAT SPA (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIAT SPA

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%); TURIN, ITALY (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (79%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); MERGERS (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); TRAINS (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); RETAILERS (60%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (56%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; GARUZZO, GIORGIO

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



14 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
The Workers Are Starting To Win a Few

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
IT was almost 13 years ago when it became clear that labor unions had lost much of their clout. President Ronald Reagan broke the air traffic controllers' strike, and left the strikers unemployed.
In retrospect, that action seems to have set the tone for an era in which the power of workers to get "more," as Samuel Gompers is said to have put it when asked what organized labor wanted, had ended. 
 It was a time when the fear of inflation had grown to the extent that the public wanted something done, not just in the United States but around the world. In Britain, Margaret Thatcher was breaking the power of unions and in France a supposedly Socialist Government was imposing austerity.
The fear of inflation then is now only dimly remembered by many. Prices had begun climbing in the late 1960's, and inflation kept rising through price controls and through recessions. By 1981, almost everyone expected oil prices to top $100 a barrel within a few years. Interest rates were high and rising, and a few months after the controllers' strike was broken the Government sold an issue of 30-year bonds with a yield to maturity of 15.78 percent. There was disagreement about what government could do to bring inflation under control, but there was consensus that there would not be the political will to do it.
Now, the situation is reversed. Higher interest rates are being blamed on almost everything except concern about inflation. It is widely believed that labor costs cannot rise rapidly because there are too many people willing to do any given job, if not here, then in some other country.
But a funny thing happened when the nation's unionized trucking companies decided to save money -- and better compete with nonunion companies -- by replacing full-time workers with part timers. The teamsters' union struck, and won a partial victory.
There are similar stories to be told overseas. In France, the conservative Government decided to allow employers to pay less than the minimum wage to young workers, reasoning that would help to reduce unemployment. Students figured it just meant they would earn less, and took to the streets. The Government backed down.
In this country, the average worker has seen his weekly pay rise by 1.5 percent, after inflation, in the past year. That may not sound like much, but it comes after years of declines that coincided with falling inflation and weak unions. Change is again in the air.
None of this alters the fact that jobs can be exported. But it may be worth noting that the Clinton Administration, after establishing its free-trade credentials with Nafta, is sounding tough in trade talks with China and Japan. Protectionism, even if cloaked as retaliation for closed markets or righteous anger over human rights abuses, would be another inflationary force.
All of which may help to explain why long-term interest rates have climbed more than most people expected. Inflation is not going to accelerate tomorrow, but one trend that helped to depress it has lost power and may be reversing.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the Dow industrial average for the past week, average weekly earnings in private nonfarm jobs from 1975 to 1994 and yield on 30-yera Treasuries from 1974 to 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; STOCKS AND BONDS; WAGES AND SALARIES LABOR UNIONS (91%); BONDS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STRIKES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TRUCKING (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD RONALD REAGAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



15 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Sound Bytes;
Assembling a New Whole

BYLINE: By Lawrence M. Fisher 

 BODY:
WHY build a company when it's faster to buy several and create a whole greater than the sum of its parts? That's been the mission of Michael Fields, a former executive of the Oracle Systems Corporation who set out to create the first comprehensive management tools, for tasks such as backing up data, security and archival storage, in the uncharted realm of client-server computing. While commonly available from large mainframe producers, such tools have been lacking in client-server set-ups, which split tasks among more than one computer on a network.
Armed with $35 million in capital from Warburg Pincus, a New York venture capital firm, Mr. Fields created the Open Visions Technologies Corporation by acquiring nine companies or divisionsof companies, such as the storage management division of the Control Data Corporation. Open Vision also acquired five products or product families from larger companies. Like the customers it hopes to serve, Open Vision is a "distributed" company, with headquarters in Pleasanton, Calif., and development centers in seven locations across the country, linked by a computer network. 
 Question: Why isn't systems management already provided by the sellers of operating systems or data base management software?
Answer: Whenever you move into a new paradigm, which is how I describe client-server, there are new requirements. Client-server lets users get close to actual production data, so you need expertise to manage it successfully. That's what Open Vision delivers in tools and services. These are all things the system software guys should do well, but the fact is they don't.
Q: What's different about Open Vision?
A: Open Vision is the first company to start by launching a major acquisition campaign to bring technologies and people together, not based on market share, but on how "integratable" they are. We walked away from a lot of companies with large market share but whose products did not meet our standards of integration. Buyers are looking for a suite of technologies that work together. The second criterion was that the engineers who built the products had to come along. If they didn't feel comfortable joining Open Vision it wouldn't matter if the owners gave the company to us.
Q: You were at Oracle for its dramatic rise, its fall in 1990, when it had to restate its earnings, and its rise again. What lessons did you learn from that experience?
A: I was appointed president of Oracle U.S.A. about one week after the debacle in 1990, and I had to face the investment community when they heard what had happened. The stock went from $18 to $4.50 in a week. I learned you have to manage your business not based on what you would like to do but on what you know you can do. You can't let growth get too far ahead of your ability to support it.
Q: You are active in Black Executives in Software Technology. What do you think can be done about the relative absence of African Americans in this industry?
A: In educational centers, they tend to teach the science of developing computer systems, which is for people who want to go on to develop hardware. That path scares away a lot of blacks and a lot of women. But the real opportunities are in application development, which is built much more on logic than on physics. I tell students to see the software industry as a major opportunity. Although there is no industry I consider color- or gender-blind, this is one where your abilities carry much more weight than your gender or color.
 
Michael S. Fields
 
 Born: Oct. 1, 1945; New York City.
 
 Noncomputer reading: "The Warburgs," by Ron Chernow.
 
 Ideal escape: Four days on Maui.
 
 Hobbies: Golf, pocket billiards, gadgets.
 
 Family: Wife, Sandra; daughters, Michelle, 26, and Tara, 22.
 
 Drives: 1990 BMW 750.
 
 Computers: Generic 486 DX2 66 mhz PC from CompUSA; a Macintosh Duo for traveling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); ARB (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (69%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (69%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (69%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: OPEN VISIONS TECHNOLOGIES CORP ORACLE CORP (85%); ARBITRON INC (69%); CERIDIAN CORP (69%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OPEN VISIONS TECHNOLOGIES CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NETWORK SERVERS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (77%); DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); DATA SECURITY (71%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (71%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); MARKET SHARE (67%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: FIELDS, MICHAEL S; FISHER, LAWRENCE M ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



16 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 21; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Putting Women on the Agenda

SERIES: First of two articles on a recent conference on progressive economics.

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE latest installment of Robert Skidelsky's biography of John Maynard Keynes indicates the eminent economist was not much interested in women, at least not until he met Lydia Lopokova, the ballerina who became the source and object of a grand passion Keynes had previously reserved for monetary theory. Irony therefore was especially delicious for some of the participants in an unusual gathering in mid-April at Oxford University. Under the very gaze of the dominant economic theorist of the 20th century -- his portrait hangs prominently in Magdalen College, where the group met -- they put the topic of women as an economic force on the table.
To be sure, the social democratic and progressive academics, trade unionists, think tank representatives and journalists from North America, Europe, Australia and Britain who gathered for the International Seminar on Growth and Unemployment weren't there only to be amused by juxtaposition. They were, for one thing, intent on restoring Keynes's reputation, sullied in the United States during 12 Republican years of rising deficits and tax breaks for the rich. "We were in the land of Keynes," said Jeff Faux, director of the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. "There was a fair amount of talk about how Keynes had been bastardized." 
 The participants, according to Mr. Faux and Linda Tarr-Whelan, director of the Center for Policy Alternatives in Washington, who reported back from the conference at a briefing in Washington in late April, were in a celebratory mood at what was apparently their first-ever chance to mull collectively over issues like the globalization of markets -- issues on which the better-financed right-of-center think tanks tend to have a louder voice. "The labor movement is just starting to see it's going to go international or it's doomed," Ms. Tarr-Whelan said.
It was Ms. Tarr-Whelan and her counterpart at the Fabian Society in London, Glenys Thornton, who insisted during the planning process on integrating women's issues into what was shaping up as a fairly traditional trade unionist-social democratic agenda, motivated by concern for "rising unemployment, widening inequality and escalating social distress," as the conference report eventually put it. The agenda did not reflect the more than two decades of changes in family structure and decline in male earning power that has propelled women into the labor force and transformed their social roles.
Ms. Tarr-Whelan offered certain implacable demographic facts about the United States in her presentation to the group:
* Women are 45.6 percent of the work force now, a figure expected to rise to 47 percent by 2005. They accounted for 60 percent of labor force growth between 1982 and 1992.
* Women make a significant contribution to family income. In 1991, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median income of married-couple families with the wife working outside the home was $48,169. Families without the second salary had a median income of $30,075.
* Women are starting businesses at a faster pace than other groups -- five times faster than men. As the businesses mature, the women-owned business sector is growing in importance as an employer.
The notion that economic policy should be devised "with full recognition of the new realities of men and women at work," as Ms. Tarr-Whelan put it in her paper, is the founding principle of a powerful cabal of American women, from business, government, politics and feminism, who gathered for a "women's economic summit" shortly after Bill Clinton's election. They made their case with an eye to establishing a place in the raucous pan-interest group conversation of the first 100 days of the Clinton Administration.
The group, expanded and more diverse, met again in January in Leesburg, Va., to refine its positions. The participants still argued for the centrality of women's economic issues but also devised a three-tiered strategy encouraging entrepreneurial enterprise, strengthening the social safety net and balancing work and family.
Such an approach, the summit conference report argued, could be the bedrock of building a mass constituency of women. Women, of course, don't agree on everything, but research reported at the summit meeting by Celinda Lake, a Washington pollster, indicated a surprising consensus among women -- across political affiliation, region, race and class -- on "the interrelationship of work life, family life and community."
Ms. Tarr-Whelan took this approach, the "politics of the new economy," as she calls it, to Oxford. The traditional left tends to want to subsume women under the general category "worker," but, Ms. Tarr-Whelan said, there was no resistance from the group to thinking about women as independent economic actors. Her insistence that the think tanks send women helped. "It is one of the different things about having women at the table and women as planners," she said.
Talking about women also helped clarify an issue that many progressives tiptoe around for fear of pitting men and women against each other. "Women are pouring into the work force and men are losing their jobs," Ms. Tarr-Whelan said after the briefing. "There seems to be a relationship." She noted in her paper that women are still overwhelmingly in female-dominated occupations, citing 1988 figures indicating that only 9 percent of working women have nontraditional jobs. "Men and women are not holding the same jobs," she said. "It was a light bulb experience." Women figured prominently in the final conference report.
Any other resistance may have been leveled by the simple fact that Ms. Tarr-Whelan and her like-minded colleagues could brandish tantalizing election victories in the United States and Australia, where the women's vote helped carry Bill Clinton and the Labor Party, respectively, to victory.
One goal of the "politics of the new economy" is to keep economics up front and keep divisive social issues in the background. Ms. Tarr-Whelan favors the slogan "It's the economy, stupid," surely a sentiment with which Maynard Keynes -- and perhaps even his beloved Lopokova -- would have agreed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Tarr-Whelan and Jeff Faux gave a briefing in Washington on the Oxford economic seminar. (Kirsten Bremmer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); CENTER FOR POLICY ALTERNATIVES (54%); CENTER FOR POLICY ALTERNATIVES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OXFORD UNIVERSITY ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); CENTER FOR POLICY ALTERNATIVES (54%); CENTER FOR POLICY ALTERNATIVES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WOMEN; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SURVEYS AND SERIES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); WOMEN (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); FAMILY (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); STATISTICS (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); 

PERSON: TARR-WHELAN, LINDA; FAUX, JEFF; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



17 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Ways to Cope When Market Slides

BYLINE: By Carole Gould 

 BODY:
THE long-anticipated stock market decline has left mutual fund investors wondering what to do to preserve what's left of their portfolios -- stay in the market or pull out?
Sit tight, say fund experts. Risk "is part of the package, and you can't panic when the market falls," said Don Phillips, vice president of Morningstar Inc. 
 Investors have been doing just that. Although the Dow Jones industrial average fell almost 10 percent from its peak at the end of January to its recent low, money flowed out of stock funds just one week so far this year, the first week of April, when the market bottomed, AMG Data Services said.
Even so, investors should review their fund holdings, experts say. Possible actions: rethink the allocation to equities, shorten bond terms, buy shares as bargains appear.
Most important is to put the decline in perspective. The recent rout was the first time in more than three years that the market fell so far. Moreover, "declines of this magnitude are to be expected periodically after periods of overenthusiasm on the part of investors," said H. Bradlee Perry, senior partner of David L. Babson & Company in Boston, which sponsors the Jones & Babson group of funds.
The run-up in stock prices, Mr. Perry said, was mostly fueled by a strengthening economy and falling interest rates, which pushed bank savers into stock mutual funds. The steady upward march in equity prices built confidence and finally even euphoria, which burst, he said, when the Federal Reserve nudged up short-term interest rates.
His advice is simple. The current stock market decline "is a truly normal occurrence, and one that should be of little concern to investors who own shares of strong, growing companies."
The market has been so strong in recent years that this is the first tumble for many people who have just begun buying funds, so it makes sense to reassess risk tolerance.
"It's one thing to philosophize about loss, and another thing to live it," said Craig Litman, principal with Litman/Gregory, San Francisco-based investment advisers. "There may be some downside yet until the correction runs its course," he added.
Even so, long-term investors should avoid the temptation to bail out, said Sheldon Jacobs, who edits the No-Load Fund Investor. Although there can be prolonged down periods, the stock market tends to rise over time.
Mr. Jacobs conducted a study in which $2,000 was invested annually in stocks on the day the stock market hit its highest point of the year, starting on Jan. 11, 1973. While the 1973-1974 bear market yielded initial losses, the investment finally began growing. By the end of 1993, he said, the $42,000 invested over 21 years was worth $162,734.
What about hopping out of stocks until the market hits bottom and then moving back in? "The plain truth is that market timing doesn't work," said Gerald Perritt, who edits The Mutual Fund Letter.
Even so, there are some ways fund holders can protect themselves. One solution for the uneasy investor is to raise cash to minimize losses. Of course, the price of holding cash is potentially lower returns.
Also, the steady upward returns of recent years have lulled many investors into keeping too much money in common stocks or long-term bonds, Mr. Phillips said. Money needed in five years or less should be in less volatile investments like short-term bond or money market funds.
For long-term investors, the picture is different, and advisers urge them to put money into equities now.
Consider some particularly beat-up market sectors as good buy candidates, Mr. Litman said. He recommends putting a small portion in emerging markets debt, via the Fidelity Emerging Markets Income Fund. He also likes Harbor Capital Appreciation, which invests in established companies, and Brandywine, which looks for smaller, lesser-known companies and has a $25,000 minimum investment.
The highly regarded manager Michael Price sees so many opportunities now that he has reopened two funds that had been closed to new investors since 1989, Mutual Shares and Mutual Qualified.
Some funds actually posted gains in March when the market suffered its worst declines of the quarter, said Janet Brown, managing editor of No-Load Fund X. Among them were Southeastern Asset Management Value (up 1.7 percent) and Warburg Pincus Growth and Income (up 0.6 percent).
Bond fund investors might take a different tack than putting more money into the market. Because of the Federal Reserve's upward moves in short-term interest rates, long-term bonds are particularly vulnerable to price declines. So one good option is to shorten maturities, moving from a long-term to an intermediate- or short-term bond fund during rallies.
Bond investors who have substantial losses, especially in municipal bonds, might consider switching into comparable funds, locking in the loss for tax reasons while leaving their economic position unchanged, Mr. Litman said.
The bottom line: outpacing inflation over time requires a commitment to equities. To invest successfully, diversify, invest for the long term and minimize costs, Mr. Perritt said. Furthermore, realize that the stock market spends a lot of time in retreat; use market slumps to buy rather than sell, he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing weekly net cash flow into stock funds from Jan. to April. (Source: AMG Data Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (72%); DAVID L BABSON & CO INC (68%); AMG DATA SERVICES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE H BRADLEE PERRY (58%); SHELDON JACOBS (58%); DON PHILLIPS (56%); CRAIG LITMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



18 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: The World;
A Nixon Legacy Devalued By a Cold War Standard

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN most of the obituaries and retrospectives about the life and times of President Richard M. Nixon, his foreign policy achievements were hailed as the centerpiece of his Presidency. But oddly, all of these eulogies either ignored, or mentioned only in passing, what may have been one of the most enduring of Mr. Nixon's foreign policy initiatives: his decision in 1971 to take the dollar off the gold standard and demolish the Bretton Woods monetary system -- bidding both farewell with that memorable line about the Italian currency: "I don't give a (bleep) about the lira."
Bretton Woods was the town in New Hampshire where, in July of 1944, American and British officials gathered to set up a monetary system that would restore global trade and economics after the war. The Bretton Woods system was based on the conviction that the world should not return to the laissez-faire chaos of the 1930's, when exchange rates were allowed to float and fluctuate wildly. The Bretton Woods agreement established that the dollar would be the fixed center of a new economic solar system. Each country would declare a value of its currency against the dollar, and it would be allowed to float only 1 percent up or down. The dollar would be linked to gold at a rate of $35 an ounce. Any country that piled up dollars could come to the teller window at Fort Knox and redeem them for gold at that fixed rate. 
 For about 25 years the system worked fine, until the Vietnam War and Great Society programs triggered serious inflation in the United States. As America's trade deficits with Europe and Japan grew, and dollars started piling up abroad, the Western allies rushed to redeem their dollars for gold before they were eroded by American inflation. President Nixon imposed wage and price controls to dampen inflation, but he also decided that he would devalue the dollar to make American exports cheaper and stimulate export-led growth. Since Bretton Woods barred such a devaluation, Mr. Nixon devalued Bretton Woods. He unilaterally abrogated the treaty, closed the gold window, and soon thereafter let the dollar float. In Japan, they called it the "Nixon Shocku."
"It fell to Nixon to seal the fate of the Bretton Woods system," said Richard N. Gardner, author of the standard history of Bretton Woods and now the American Ambassador to Spain. "While this may have been inevitable, to ignore its long-term impact would be a major historical oversight. Nixon moved us into a very different monetary universe of floating exchange rates, something we are still coping with today. That is a world of greatvolatility of currencies, which complicates international trade and investment and encourages speculation."
One major positive to come out of Nixon's move was that it forced the key industrial democracies to work together in a "Group of Seven" to coordinate interest rates, monetary and fiscal policies -- and even diplomacy -- to maintain a modicum of currency stability.
The reason this Nixon initiative gets short shrift is because news and history tend to be written in the context of a Super Story -- a large narrative drama that sets the broad context in which events are judged. The international Super Story of the Nixon era was the cold war; news was deemed significant or insignificant in relation to where it fit in that East-West drama. The opening to China and detente naturally assumed a high profile; economics was secondary. Most journalists and editors, having been suckled on the cold war, naturally gravitate to news about national security, not economic security.
"For the last 45 years we were in a war -- the cold war -- and everything was subordinated to the requirements of waging that war," said Michael Mandelbaum, an expert on cold war history at Johns Hopkins University. "In that context, the sorts of things that Richard Nixon cared about -- national security issues -- were defined as high politics, and the proper preoccupation of Presidents and journalists, while international economics was defined as low politics, and the proper preoccupation of faceless bureaucrats. People write histories about wars, not bookkeeping, and they run for President to be warlords, not accountants."
Now that the cold war is over, though, the Super Story may be changing. Regional crises -- like Bosnia and Haiti -- still grab headlines, but they must now compete with a new Super Story -- the one about a world that is becoming more and more economically intertwined. In that world, the President is as much Merchant in Chief as Commander in Chief. President Clinton's efforts to secure a global trade agreement -- known as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade -- and the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada have loomed very large in this new dollar drama, and it is a safe bet that neither will be overlooked in his obituary.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Morgenthau Jr., left, Secretary of the Treasury, and John Maynard Keynes, adviser to the British treasury, during the Bretton Woods conference in 1944. (Alfred Eisenstaedt/Life Magazine, Time-Warner, Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOLD; BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); DEVALUATION (91%); COLD WAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); TRENDS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS RICHARD NIXON (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



19 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: If and When;
From the Pall of Sarajevo to the Shore of Who Knows Where

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
If Somalia, why not Bosnia? If Bosnia, why not Rwanda? Or the Sudan? Or Haiti? Or Afghanistan?
Five years after the grand retreat of Communism, the list of plausible candidates for military intervention grows ever longer. Yet neither President Clinton nor other Western leaders have articulated a clear standard for distinguishing among victims of brutality and aggression. 
 The major post-cold war intervention, in the Persian Gulf, was not about Iraqi brutality (the Iraqi dictatorship had been brutal long before it invaded Kuwait), but about oil and alliances. Vital Western interests -- the old standard for intervention -- would have been at stake even if Iraq had scrupulously observed the Geneva Conventions.
And things were simpler in the cold war, when arguments over whether to commit forces to faraway conflicts were framed by the confrontation between Moscow and Washington. The world had no problem pragmatically averting its gaze from humanitarian catastrophes like Pol Pot's genocidal but diplomatically isolated regime in Cambodia.
But there is no oil in Haiti or Bosnia. There are no Communists in Rwanda. There is only murder and torture and genocide, without any meter of horrors that can calibrate one country's suffering against another's.
And where there are Western interests, they are subtle. Perhaps, for example, it is not Serbian atrocities that should motivate action in Bosnia, but issues of European stability.
Gone are the traditional hawks and doves. In their place stand the new globalists, who argue that the West has an overriding stake in encouraging international order and should do so as a coalition wherever the conflict, and, on the other side, the thinkers who oppose almost any intervention unless it can be justified by the familiar definitions of national interest.
If the search for high philosophical principles has yielded these appealingly coherent theories, there also remains an enormous middle ground where various flavors of political or policy experts are trying to improvise a practical way to guide America's use of power while recognizing its limits -- notably the needs for domestic consensus and reasonable prospects of success.
Here is a sampling of the schools of thought, signposts to the debate on how to use American power in an unfamiliar world:

Interventionism:
Acting to Stem Chaos
John Steinbruner, director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, is among the more forceful advocates of Western engagement. With the increasing interconnection of the world economy, he argues, the United States and its allies have a powerful interest in preventing the virus of chaos from infecting wider swaths of the globe.
"We live in an integrated world," Mr. Steinbruner said. "A serious infection that gets out of control in one place is threatening to the whole organism. If you live in the shoulder, and you've got gangrene of the feet, you'd better worry."
Intervention, Mr. Steinbruner contends, can be launched only by a coalition of forces from various nations, but he said the United States has a leading role. "If we don't undertake it," he said, "nobody else will."
He suggests a broad standard: That citizens of any country should be accorded basic human rights, which include the freedom from wholescale slaughter because their country's government has collapsed or because a group has unleashed an ethnic war (although, he adds, "I don't mean the right of a dissident to thumb his nose at a dictator.")
He acknowledges that such a standard, whether enforced through the United Nations or by the West, would have to be applied to every case, from Afghanistan to Rwanda.
"Once you espouse these doctrines," he said, "you have to apply them to places you aren't used to caring about, and that's why everyone shrinks away from it."
Mr. Steinbruner said that the world now lacks the rationale, the coalition and the military planning for such operations. And he said that the main emphasis should be on early prevention of conflicts, rather than military intervention.
But he said that ultimately, aggressors will be deterred only by credible threats of countervailing force.
"Massive breakdowns of the civil order are too dangerous for the entire system," he said. "We are very slow to get on to this. But ultimately we won't have a lot of choice. If we want to run a coherent society ourselves, we will have to defend legal order at the far reaches of the globe."

Non-Interventionism:
Avoiding Entanglements
Ted Galen Carpenter, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, sees few, if any, humanitarian tragedies that justify American military intervention.
"We can express moral outrage as citizens, or as a government," he argues, "but that cannot be a criterion for intervention."
He worries that intervention is a slippery slope and that deployment of American troops to countries like Somalia builds the pressure for wider commitments.
"There are so many potential arenas," he said, "that even if we pursued it multilaterally, the U.S. would be involved in a great many conflicts, incurring great costs and substantial risks. A global security system is impractical."
Mr. Carpenter has little use either for those who call for intervention to quell selected instances of humanitarian abuses, usually the most egregious.
American forces, he said, should be placed in harm's way only if this country's survival is at stake, or when the international order is threatened by something like Hitler's rise to power.
"Those who come down in the middle end up getting into a lot of different enterprises, peacekeeping operations, and then find out, as we did in Somalia, that the task is much more difficult than we anticipated," he said. "At that point, all but the most ardent lose interest, or go into opposition."
For him, Bosnia is the classic example of a place in which the United States has no real interests and no reason to meddle. "Serbia is a third-rate economic and military power," he asserts, "with no territorial ambitions beyond the borders of Yugoslavia."
"As tragic as the situation is -- and it is obviously horrible -- the best solution is probably to let the various factions fight it out. To intervene there raises the obvious question. If there, why not the Sudan, where more than a million have perished, or Angola, where the U.N. says 1,000 a day are perishing, or the chaos of Afghanistan?
"There are a lot of tragedies in the world," he added, "and we can't intervene in all of them."
Mr. Carpenter dismissed the notion that a strong stand in, say, Bosnia, might deter aggressors elsewhere.
"Most conflicts have local roots; they're due to local factors," he said. "Just because an aggressor is hammered halfway around the world doesn't mean that competing factions in another region will be intimidated."

Flexibility:
Indignation Case by Case
Zbigniew Brzezinski, who was President Carter's national security adviser, agrees it is impractical to intervene in every conflict. But he said the West cannot stand by when atrocities become as severe as the recent massacres in Rwanda, where as many as 200,000 people may have been killed, according to the U.N. Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali. The indifference to this staggering carnage, Mr. Brzezinski said, is a "total blemish on the international community and the international organizations."
America tends "to interfere as little as possible in foreign wars, civil wars," he said. "And that's the tendency of this President. Yet even he can't get away with it."
Mr. Brzezinski said it is a useless exercise to define when -- and for what reason -- foreign conflicts require intervention.
"It's not a mathematical question," he said. "It's a matter of common sense. At a certain point, disasters become something bigger, and people cannot stand aside.
"Is it a thousand people killed? A million?
"It depends somewhat on the traditions of the country. In a country like China, a million disappear, and this is taken rather stoically."

The Limits of Power:
Listening to the Voters
All of the people who call themselves pragmatists -- from the hawkish to the dovish -- say humanitarian interventions should be limited to those cases in which the West can make a difference at a reasonable cost.
But James R. Schlesinger, a former Director of Central Intelligence and Defense Secretary under Presidents Nixon and Ford, says this misses the point. Intervention implies a decision to, if necessary, use substantial force. That must be decided at the outset.
Are there cases of genocide where the United States and its allies should take action, even if no national interest is at stake? "Probably yes," Mr. Schlesinger says, "But it has to go over many hurdles."
Pressed on whether intervention ever becomes a moral imperative, he said:
"Those who would act on behalf of morality had better think through the entire moral fabric, including imposing those views on an indifferent body politic in America."
To Mr. Schlesinger, the most crucial hurdle is American public opinion.
"If people see enough horrors on TV, that can be enough," he said.
"This country is still the most democratic of democracies, in which foreign policies well up, to a large extent, from the general public. You can't do things as if you were the Imperial German Government. I don't believe you can go into a costly humanitarian operation solely as a result of ruminations by the executive branch."
He also cautioned against the notion of firing shots across the bow of an aggressor. "Don't do these little signals," he said. "That's an American illusion: 'If we only send a signal to Ho Chi Minh that his important assets are at risk, he will see that the rational thing to do is desist.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Bosnian Serb soldier stood overlooking Gorazde last week. Conflict about whether Bosnian Serbs are honoring the NATO ultimatum has thwarted new talks on a cease-fire. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); IRAQ (94%); RWANDA (93%); HAITI (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GULF STATES (90%); CAMBODIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); IRAQ (94%); RWANDA (93%); HAITI (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GULF STATES (90%); CAMBODIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE COLD WAR (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); GENOCIDE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); TORTURE (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



20 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
And Landscape Architects Are Tilling the Soil

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Throughout American history, in voices as disparate as those of Thomas Jefferson, Henry David Thoreau and Country Joe and the Fish, many have rhapsodized about the rural life. In the country, lungs breathe clean, souls tune in to nature's rhythms and democracy grows its strongest roots. Yet in spite of those paeans to arcadian joys, Americans have deserted farms and small towns at such a startling pace that the 1990 census showed that less than one-fourth of the population was rural -- down from about half in 1920.
Even as the rural population dwindled, the trappings of country life followed Americans to the cities, pushed along by the modern-day environmental movement and shrewd marketing. Consumers bought rugged clothes from retailers like L. L. Bean and the western look from designers like Ralph Lauren, remodeled their kitchens to resemble weathered cupboards in Iowa farmhouses and drank beer said to be brewed from "pure mountain water." If the life in rural America could not be lived in earnest, it could, at least psychologically, be replicated. 
 Sue Halpern, a writer who lives the rustic life in New York's Adirondack Mountains, notes that polls of city and suburban dwellers often find them expressing a desire to live in small towns. "This is more than a little wistful," Ms. Halpern writes in her book, "Migrations to Solitude" (Vintage, 1992). "They'd probably rather own a Model T, but they're going to buy a Taurus."
Now comes new evidence that some Americans are acting on wistful sentiment and moving back to the land of big sky. But when they get there, they are finding that it no longer resembles the land of their dreams.
In a recent study, Kenneth Johnson of Loyola University-Chicago and Calvin Beale of the Department of Agriculture have confirmed their belief that the population of rural America is again on the rise as it was, briefly, during the short-lived "rural revival" of the 1970's.
 
Crowded Lakes
 Using annual estimates of population shifts compiled by the Census Bureau and state demographers, their report shows that 64 percent of the country's 2,277 non-metropolitan counties grew in the early 1990's, compared with only 46 percent of these counties during the 1980's. The number of people moving into rural areas outstripped the number moving out by 377,000 from 1990 through 1992, reversing the trend of the 1980's, when a net total of 928,000 people left rural counties.
If more Americans are headed to the country, the atmosphere they find -- and probably help to create -- may be far different from what they had imagined. Retirees may muse about spending long, lazy hours fishing on a quiet pond, but they are likely to find the local lake clogged with bass boats or waterskiers. Migrants to eastern Idaho or northwest Wyoming seeking the backwoods solitude of cross-country skiing might find their peace shattered by hordes of snowmobilers.
If they wander into L. L. Bean in Freeport, Me., they will find a shopping mall. Outside, they will already have encountered a strip of outlet stores selling everything from porcelain to designer apparel to vacation souvenirs (in case you were planning to have a dinner on fine china, looking like the ultimate in chic, next time you went camping).
But malls and their urban wares are not really the issue. It's not so much that paradise is being paved over. It's being landscaped into golf courses.
The growth in rural areas, according to Mr. Johnson and Mr. Beale, is strongest in counties with large retirement communities and recreational areas where residents can ski, sail, climb mountains or hike. While the migrants have brought about economic rebirth in many places, they have also profoundly transformed the local economy. Work is likely to mean waiting on tables, not tilling the land.
"There's so much of a tendency of urban people to regard rural America as a playground," Mr. Beale said. "This creates a lot of controversy in places like the West where many local people get resentful. They may want the business, but they realize that it may change the character of the place."
 
Vistas From Poolside
 The ideal of the country may have followed Americans' trek to the city. And as some of them trek back, they are bringing the amenities of the city in tow. But will the country still seem like the country when Main Street has espresso bars down the street from the general store?
Rick Bass, an environmentalist and writer, described in his book "Winter: Notes From Montana" (Seymour Lawrence/Houghton Mifflin, 1991) what he and his companion were looking for when they searched for a home in the country. In it, he summed up these contradictory impulses: "We wanted a place of ultimate wildness, with that first and last yardstick of privacy: a place where you could walk around naked if you wanted to, a place with a barn, field and stables for keeping horses, because Elizabeth loved to ride. And if there was an indoor swimming pool and maybe some tennis courts on the premises and a little garden, well, that would be all right too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the rural landscape is changing across America, country living is not what it used to be. At a new development in Palm Desert, Calif., a resident inspects his swimming pool. (Larry Sultan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: RURAL AREAS; LIFE STYLES; POPULATION SHIFTS; URBAN AREAS RURAL COMMUNITIES (92%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); COUNTIES (78%); HISTORY (78%); FISHES (78%); LAKES (78%); CENSUS (77%); TRENDS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BEER & ALE (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RETAILERS (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); WRITERS (66%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (58%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (54%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; JOHNSON, KENNETH; BEALE, CALVIN RALPH LAUREN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



21 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Good New Jobs, Same Old Salaries

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Each month the Labor Department announces the creation of tens of thousands of new jobs. And the announcements are greeted skeptically. They are mostly part-time jobs or temporary day work, the skepticism goes. Or they are low-wage jobs in fast-food restaurants and in health care. All of this was true. But lately the mix has got much richer. Now, a lot of the new jobs are higher status, with better pay and often with benefits.
These happy statistics, which are just now showing up clearly on government ledgers, give the Clinton Administration something to crow about. For many thousands of skilled people who sought work but could not find suitable jobs, opportunities are opening up. But for the nation as a whole, the standard of living is not likely to rise anytime soon. 
 Since last fall, new jobs have multiplied in such solid fields as medical technology, trucking, teaching, computer specialties, mortgage finance, accounting and factory work. But pay is a problem. Some of the jobs pay $40,000 or $50,000 a year, but the amounts for each occupation have remained roughly unchanged, rising each year by barely enough to offset inflation. And this stagnation shows no sign yet of lifting.
"Everyone has a sense of insecurity sitting in the back of their minds," said Lawrence Katz, the Labor Department's chief economist, referring to the layoffs and cutbacks that have characterized the 1990's, and have touched millions of Americans. "That sense of insecurity will probably dampen their wage demands for some unknown period of time."
The dampening is evident at the Whirlpool Corporation, for example, where more than 700 people have been hired to staff third shifts at Midwestern plants to meet a surge in demand for washers, dryers and refrigerators. But their wages for assembly work, now averaging $12.20 an hour, are rising by less than the current inflation rate of 3 percent a year -- the pay schedule being roughly pegged to a union contract that lasts until 1999. Many companies operate similarly.
"The labor movement's contribution to wage inflation is nonexistent," said Mark Roberts, an economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
Whirlpool gives bonuses to workers who increase their productivity by assembling, say, five refrigerators an hour instead of three. The bonuses give the workers a share of the profit from the extra production, and without extra production and profit there are no bonuses.
In the past, companies like Whirlpool, forced to give wage increases even as workers continued to assemble only three refrigerators an hour, covered the extra labor cost by raising prices. These price increases contributed, in turn, to a rise in the national inflation rate. The Federal Reserve responded by raising interest rates to discourage borrowing and spending. That reduced the inflation rate, but it also slowed down the economy, and the hiring.
Now, the Federal Reserve is raising interest rates again, partly out of concern that the latest surge in hiring might become inflationary. Many economists disagree, including some in the Clinton Administration. They argue that an upturn in hiring is no longer a front-burner reason for the Fed to slow the economy, risking recession.
"You ask who feels insecure about their jobs and in every group, 80 percent of the hands go up," said Richard Freeman, a Harvard labor economist, describing some recent focus group sessions involving workers from supervisors to janitors. "That insecurity is the underlying reason for the lack of wage pressure today."
The job growth that is gaining strength today started quietly in February 1992, while George Bush was President. A recession had ended the previous March, but for nearly a year into the recovery employment contracted. When the turn finally came 26 months ago, the hiring was heavily at the low-wage end of the spectrum, according to the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics.
During that first year, until February 1993 -- the Clinton Administration's first full month in office -- 1.5 million new jobs were created, after subtracting layoffs, forced retirements and other cutbacks from a much larger total. But while many of the lost jobs paid more than $10 an hour, nearly 60 percent of the new ones fell below that level.
They were in restaurants, at companies like Manpower Inc., which recruit and rent out tens of thousands of temporary workers, and in the health care industry, which mostly added nurse's aides and other attendants. The year was notable for cutbacks, or very weak hiring, in manufacturing, construction and finance -- industries that pay relatively well.
Part-time work represented about 19 percent of the new jobs in 1992, and that share has persisted through Mr. Clinton's months in office, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. There the similarity with 1992 ends. "In just about all industries, 1993 was a better year than 1992," said Thomas Nardone, a bureau economist. "Even those industries that lost jobs in 1993, went down less than in 1992."
 
One Promise Kept
 In the 13 months through March, the nation's work force grew by 2.2 million. And 30 percent of that growth -- 684,000 jobs -- has come since January. As the economy and hiring have picked up, the Administration has been able to proclaim that it is meeting its goal of over 200,000 new jobs a month.
But quality is another issue. The bureau's findings are too general to show with precision the quality of the jobs, though they allow the general conclusion that it is rising. The bureau does not match jobs with wages, for example. The closest it gets is calculating average wages for the industries or occupations where jobs are being created, and from this inferences have to be made.
Temporary workers, averaging less than $10 an hour, represented nearly 21 percent of the job growth in 1992, and that fell to 14 percent last year. On the other hand, manufacturing, which kept losing jobs until last September, has added 88,000 since then, at companies that make autos, furniture, metals, electronics and machinery -- and pay on average more than $12 an hour.
Similarly in health care, no one knows how many of the new hires are technicians and registered nurses and how many are orderlies, nurse's aides and home-care workers. But the average wage of $11.32 an hour last year suggests that technicians and nurses are a rising proportion.
Across industries, the bureau also collects data on administrators and managers and on "management-related occupations." Both were areas of weak job growth or job decline in 1992 and strong job growth since then. These are broad categories that cover accountants, store buyers, personnel executives, public relations executives, funeral directors and the like. They are categories with average earnings of up to $35,000 a year.
"We are going through a sort of three-phased process and we are now in the second phase where employers don't offer higher wages, but do offer more full-time jobs as opposed to contract work or temporary and part-time work," said Frank Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "If the recovery continues and many people, across many industries, offer these jobs, wages are likely to be bid up."
And when will that phase begin? Mr. Levy replied, "You can offer secure jobs for a long time before you have to offer higher pay."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Newest Paychecks," shows total jobs gained or lost in each period, in thousands. Government jobs are not included. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); FAST FOOD (57%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



22 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE SENIORS FINDING MORE JOBS BUT MODEST PAY

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Del.

 BODY:
With the economy strong again, graduating college seniors are finding jobs easier to get after a four-year drought. But except for students with both solid work experience and widely sought skills, many students in the class of '94 are settling for jobs with modest salaries and no future while hoping for better work or saving for graduate school.
"It's real clear that in the 90's, people may find work but not work they're happy with," said Edgar J. Townsend, director of career services at the University of Delaware, which occupies a 1,100-acre campus of elms and Georgian brick buildings. 
 The university's student body reflects that of other major universities, and the fortunes of its graduates in finding jobs parallel national trends. Sixty-five percent of the university's 21,000 students, including 3,000 seniors, are from other states.
These days they are discovering that good grades and a grounding in Homer and history matter less than proficiency with computers, balance sheets and nursing. These skills give those who held jobs while attending college a considerable edge.
But the salaries that even these students receive have barely budged in two years, despite the rising profits of business. No one collects national figures of college graduates' average starting pay. But the College Placement Council in Bethlehem, Pa., says the starting salaries of business majors are a good example. Their average of $23,820 this year is 3 percent less than last year, the council said.
In his own annual poll of the University of Delaware's graduates, taken six months after they leave, Mr. Townsend found that the average starting salary fell last year for the first time in 15 years, to $24,385 from $24,761 in 1992. Moreover, when adjusted for inflation, starting salaries have been falling since the late 1980's. For the first time, too, the best-paid graduates last year were nurses, who started at an average of $32,858. They displaced engineers, who started at $32,298.
Delaware's seniors, like their peers nationwide, have also made a sobering discovery: "Fortune 500 companies are not available anymore," Mr. Townsend said, because so many are still cutting jobs.
The biggest company around, Du Pont in nearby Wilmington, once drew Delaware's top chemistry and engineering graduates and assured them lifetime employment. But Du Pont has been reducing its work force, and for the first time in decades it did not send recruiters.
Instead, retail store chains -- Kmart, J. C. Penney, the Gap, Liz Claiborne, Macy's, Caldor, Lord & Taylor, Herman's, Lady Foot Locker -- had representatives here. They offer modest salaries, $20,000 to $25,000, and have some job requirements that colleges do not teach. The Gap's recruiting form for a supervisory job at a distribution center seeks a bachelor's degree and an "ability to lift 50 pounds consistently."
Joanne Galasso, 21, recently came to the placement offices for an interview with Caldor, the discount chain. Ms. Galasso, a psychology major with a 3.4 grade-point average, was all business. Tall, trim, earnest-looking in tortoise-rimmed glasses, she had donned the uniform of the interviewee -- navy blue double-breasted suit, collarless white blouse and black, low-heeled shoes.
She started looking for work in January, hoping to use her psychology major to begin a career as a therapist. She found nothing. "I had realistic expectations about salaries," Ms. Galasso said. "But I was shocked that there's really not much there. I think a lot of us are accepting the fact of take what you can get."
In one respect, Mr. Townsend said, job opportunities have improved markedly in recent years. Employers seem to be adhering to equal opportunity laws, he said, noting that women and minority groups no longer complained of discrimination.
A 21-year-old psychology major, Chandra Stewart, who is black, is also expecting to take uninspiring work at a modest salary while saving for graduate school. Her goal is a job that pays about $25,000.
"Race is such a big issue," said Ms. Stewart, whose work experience includes an internship at the Social Security Administration. "It might even be to my advantage. People are consciously trying to get more minorities into their businesses."
 
A Decline in Opportunities
 In other respects, the changes in the job market seem permanent.
Vernicka Tyson, acting director of Career Development Placement Services at Michigan State University, which monitors job placement trends nationwide, said the changes seemed structural and thus unlikely to change as the economy improves. More employers are hiring now than last year, she said, but large companies that once planned recruiting visits three years in advance and hired thousands of graduates yearly now show up on a few weeks' notice.
Employers say today's hotly competitive job market demands that they be ready to respond to changes in their business and be cautious about hiring. Steve Marts, a recruiter from Caldor, said: "There's a lot of applicants to talk to. But to find quality ones to fold into an organization, that's a very selective process."
As a result, companies are increasingly offering contingent jobs -- part-time and temporary jobs or contract work under which a company takes on a candidate for a specific task for up to a year. That buys them more time to size up workers before offering full-time jobs.
Mr. Townsend said potential employers try to assuage students' fears of dismissal by assuring them that earlier layoffs have opened opportunities for them. But he said the students do not believe it because employers' recruiters seem fickle. Some companies interview students, flatter them with additional interviews, then write letters saying they are sorry but they do not have the job for which they were interviewing.
Students have devised defensive strategies of their own. They routinely agree to take jobs and renege when a better offer comes along. "If they're so willing to cut you, and something better comes along, why shouldn't you take it?" said Daniel Mumm, 23, who has accepted a $35,000-a-year job designing and maintaining computer systems.
Still, Mr. Mumm said he was ready to accept a hoped-for offer from a leading New York bank. "That's the one I really want," he said. "A lot of students are unaccepting one job to accept another. It seems the companies almost expect it."
 
Work and Grades Bring Jobs
 Success comes most quickly for students who have had the stamina to mix the toils of scholarship and real jobs. With three courses to complete until he graduates in September, Nino Toscano, 24, has just been promoted to senior analyst at a financial services company where he has worked for two years. His salary of about $40,000 puts him in the top rank of his class.
"All through college I've worked full time," said Mr. Toscano, an economics major. "The important thing is the work experience you accumulate in school. I know a lot of people who are smarter than me, but they're still looking for jobs."
Wendy Caputo, 20, a computer sciences major with a 3.5 grade-point average, sped through college in three years. Each summer, while taking courses, she worked as an intern at Giant Foods, a supermarket chain, in its operating systems department. She has accepted a job with a computer consulting company in Rockville, Md., starting at $29,000 a year.
David J. DiGiacoma, who was here recruiting accountants for a small company near Wilmington, said: "They don't need a work history, but in this market it's a good thing. The university has a lot of accounting majors with good grades. So how do you differentiate them? It has to be a factor."
Another recruiter, Joseph Puckett of Hermann's, the sporting goods chain, looks for recruits with work experience and a knack for making customers happy. "A while back," Mr. Puckett said, "it was, 'Give us the ones with the best grades, the best record of achievement, the president of 15 things.' Those are still pluses. But if you don't have the desire to run the business the way we want to run it, pretty soon we're going to be unhappy."
In this market, however, even good work experience and a good attitude confer little job security.
Todd Krieger, 23, graduated cum laude last year with a degree in chemical engineering. He has a good job, paying $35,000 a year, with a design engineering concern. But he has witnessed a spate of layoffs and, fearing he will be next, has returned to the placement office library to plot a new search for work. "I'm trying to dive off the ship before they push me off," Mr. Krieger said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two University of Delaware seniors, two job stories: Nino Toscano, who has already been working for two years at a financial services company, MBNA America, outside the company's office in Wilmington, Del., and Joanne Galasso, who has been looking for work since January, at the college library in Newark, Del. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. 26)
 
Graphs: "Still Looking"
 The precentage of 1993 graduates from one representative state university, the University of Delaware, who said they were still looking for work six months after graduation, by major.
 
Agriculture Science -- 13%
Humanities -- 9%
Engineering -- 7%
CLASS AVERAGE -- 7%
Education -- 6%
Business/Economics -- 5%
Nursing -- 3%
 
(Source: University of Delaware survey) (pg. 1)
 
"EMPLOYMENT: The First Salary" tracks average salary earned six months after graduation from the University of Delaware, adjusted for inflation. Graph runs from 1980 through 1993. Also tracked for comparison are the average salaries earned for engineering and nursing majors from the university over the same period. (Source: University of Delaware surveys. In 1993, the response rate was 47 percent.) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE LIZ CLAIBORNE ACCESSORIES (50%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (94%); COLLEGE PLACEMENT COUNCIL (54%); COLLEGE PLACEMENT COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (94%); COLLEGE PLACEMENT COUNCIL (54%); COLLEGE PLACEMENT COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); DELAWARE, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; WAGES AND SALARIES; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TRENDS (68%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; TOWNSEND, EDGAR J MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



23 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 47 words

 BODY:
"All through college I've worked full time. The important thing is the work experience you accumulate in school. I know a lot of people who are smarter than me, but they're still looking for jobs." NINO TOSCANO, an economics major at the University of Delaware. [26:2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); DELAWARE, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: QUOTATION OF THE DAY FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (88%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



24 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Residents of S.I. Neighborhood See Schism

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
The Clifton section of Staten Island, where a 22-year-old man died after a struggle with the police on Friday night, is itself a kind of island -- an outpost of minority residents that cleaves more toward the tastes of Brooklyn or Manhattan than it does toward those of its neighbors only a mile away.
Unlike most of Staten Island, Clifton is predominantly black and Hispanic. Many residents moved there from places like Harlem, East New York and West Africa, often hoping that by crossing the Narrows waterway to the borough's northern shore they would find refuge from economic hardship or crime. But lately, some of those troubles seem to have followed. 
 In interviews yesterday, the people of the Park Hill Apartments, site of the fatal confrontation between Ernest Sayon and the police, described their neighborhood as largely alienated from the rest of Staten Island. One resident, Mohamed Baro, an immigrant from Guinea who drives a commuter van, said the isolation reminded him of the former tribal homelands set up under apartheid in South Africa.
"The blacks live with the blacks and the whites live with the whites," said Mr. Baro, 50, who was one of dozens of residents milling around the patch of sidewalk still stained by what residents identified as Mr. Sayon's blood. "Relations between the blacks and whites do not exist at all on Staten Island. The whites are scared to come here. When they do drive through this area, they roll their windows up."
 
A Neighborhood Changes
 Two decades ago, the Park Hill Apartments, which are privately owned but government subsidized, were integrated. But in recent years many whites have left for other parts of Staten Island or for New Jersey, often replaced by black and Hispanic people moving in from other boroughs.
But newcomers like Michelle Haneiph often discover that shopping and entertainment on Staten Island are oriented toward whites. So they take the nearby ferry to Manhattan or drive over the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge to Brooklyn -- which is what Ms. Haneiph said she did when she could not find a theater on Staten Island showing the Spike Lee film "Jungle Fever."
"People over here are linked more to Brooklyn than to the rest of Staten Island," said Ms. Haneiph, 27, a switchboard operator. "You have the bridge right here and the $1 vans going right to Manhattan."
While residents expressed little hostility toward white Staten Islanders, they said they resented being stereotyped. Some said they avoided telling whites that they lived in the "Hill," because the complex has a reputation for drugs and prostitution. And others said that when they went to stores in the borough's white areas, they were often watched closely.
"Don't get me wrong, I like Staten Island, but when I spend money, I don't like people to think that I am a potential criminal," said Anne Darius, 31, who works for the New York City Law Department. "When you live in the hill, you are immediately thought of as using drugs or being on welfare."
The schism on Staten Island is also reflected in Park Hill residents' views of the police. Some said they welcomed officers because they would do anything to rid their streets of increasingly aggressive drug dealers. Others said they saw the police as an occupying force charged with making sure the ills of Clifton do not spill over into white neighborhoods.
"Police officers would rather have us here than in the white sections," said Tislam Thompson, 13, who was watching as a friend of Mr. Sayon painted a memorial for him -- a red, yellow and green flag -- on a tree next to the spot where he struggled with the police.
But others said the community generally appreciated the police, maintaining that the only people criticizing officers' tactics were those selling drugs.
"Relations are only bad with the dealers," said a 50-year-old woman who gave her name as Dolores. "They just want to be able to stand out here and deal. The rest of the people are sick and tired of the drug dealers. Most of the people support the police and so do I. I don't know what happened to that boy last night, but I'm guessing that it was drug related."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GUINEA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (72%); AFRICA (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GUINEA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (72%); AFRICA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; BLACKS (IN US) AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); FERRIES (78%); MISCONDUCT (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; SAYON, ERNEST ERNEST SAYON (72%); MICHELLE HANEIPH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



25 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Economic Watch;
In the Northeast, Even Smog Is Trapped in Gridlock

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
The urban summer smog that chokes asthmatics and confines the elderly to air-conditioned rooms will be gone by early in the next century -- or so Congress decreed in 1990.
But with the 12 states of the Northeast facing a cleanup bill that could run to tens of billions of dollars and with the deadline for explaining who will pay just months away, the diverse interests that influence air-pollution policies have not advanced much further than pointing fingers. 
 "It's almost like the Palestinian-Israeli talks," said David Hawkins, a senior lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group. "Nobody wants to be the first to compromise."
Failure to break this deadlock over enforcement of the Clean Air Act, business executives say, could be as threatening to the region's economic health as smog is to the public's health. "If air quality is not improved in a cost-effective way," said Bill Tell, an executive in charge of regulatory affairs at Texaco, "you are going to see an exodus of jobs" from the region.
 
Hearings on Tap This Week
 That is why both big business and environmental hard-liners (as well as the state officials caught in between) are pinning their hopes on a little constructive head-bashing by Washington. And with Environmental Protection Agency holding hearings in Hartford this week, there is good reason to hope that the agency will broker a deal.
Almost certainly, that deal will include a free market for trading emission rights among polluters and a system for easing compliance costs of coal-fired power plants.
The active ingredient in smog is ozone. And ozone is created near the ground by a host of reactions involving ultraviolet light, heat, nitrogen compounds and volatile organic compounds that include anything from raw gasoline to tree sap.
Until recently, efforts to contain ozone focused on cutting organic compounds from tailpipes, smokestacks and ventilators. But scientists now say that nitrogen compounds are a critical player in transforming life-sustaining oxygen into lung-searing ozone. Indeed, John Bachman of the Environmental Protection Agency says that in much of the Northeast cutting nitrogen compounds would be far more effective in reducing smog than further cuts in volatile organic compounds.
Spicing the recipe for conflict, there is now good evidence that both ozone and its chemical precursors travel long distances. Hence, compounds blown in from western Pennsylvania can combine with locally made ingredients to transform New York or Boston into smog central.
 
New Enthusiasms
 This explains the new enthusiasm for controlling nitrogen compounds from coal-burning power plants. It also explains why Congress created the Ozone Transport Commission, made up of representatives of 12 Northeastern states plus the District of Columbia who have the mandate to figure out strategies for controlling regionwide smog sources.
Some important anti-smog measures are already dictated by Federal law, and are thus uncomplicated by the push and shove of regional interests. For example, the region will benefit from tougher emissions standards to be applied to new cars nationwide.
But Eric Svenson of New Jersey's giant utility, the Public Service Electric and Gas Company, argues that such measures "alone won't even come close" to helping the states meet ozone standards during the dog days of summer. That leaves it to the states to explain how they are going to reduce volatile organic compounds emissions 15 percent by 1996, plus cut both organic and nitrogen compounds by 3 percent annually.
The members of the Ozone Transport Commission made headlines in February by asking the Environmental Protection Agency to impose on the Northeast the same exceptionally stringent standards on new autos that will be required in smog-burdened California. But Delaware, New Hampshire, New Jersey and Virginia demurred, because of worries about the cost. And the American automobile industry is fighting back, offering to produce a vehicle that would be cleaner sooner, but would not meet the California standard.
Hardly anyone is claiming that the California vehicle standards alone would get the Northeast where it must go. Then what? Targeting nitrogen compounds, with heavy emphasis on power plants, which produce about half of the region's emissions. But the states are bitterly divided on how to proceed, and no wonder.
 
Smog in the Corridor
 The worst smog in the region is along the "Amtrak corridor" from Washington to Boston. But the bulk of the nitrogen compounds, notes John Elston, New Jersey's official in charge of air quality, comes from plants far to the west. And such areas have little motivation to pitch in because little of the benefit would go to their own ratepayers.
Adding sand to the wheels of negotiation, there is still much debate over allowing smog producers to pay rather than to play. A free market trading system already gives power plants broad discretion in controlling emissions that generate acid rain. A dirty plant can buy pollution rights from a clean plant, for example.
The Environmental Defense Fund, an advocacy group, has suggested that it would be cheaper to achieve the goals of the California car standards by creating a similar trading system for nitrogen and organic compounds, letting auto makers buy equivalent abatement from stationary sources like power plants or a dry-cleaning store or to buy and junk especially dirty vehicles. Indeed, some experts argue that opposition to the Ozone Transport Commission's proposal for car standards would evaporate if it were amended to include a trading system.
William Rosenberg, a former assistant administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, says that trading nitrogen compound rights among stationary sources is also critical to containing costs and softening opposition from coal-fired utilities. To comply, he reckons, most utilities would have to do little more than shift to natural gas in the summer -- or pay other plants to make the shift.
But the devil is in the details. Acid rain cumulatively damages lakes and soil over vast areas. A straightforward trading system for smog precursors, it is widely acknowledged, would be more problematic because ozone damage varies widely according to season, air temperature and wind patterns.
Daniel Dudek of the Environmental Defense Fund acknowledges that trading does not fit into an ozone solution as neatly as it did to acid rain, and many environmental groups question whether such trading will ever lead to cleaner air. But Mr. Dudek says the benefits of cutting compliance costs would far outweigh the risks of creating financial incentives to reduce emissions at the wrong place or time. Denying the legitimacy of market-based trading at this stage, he says, would only show that "we haven't learned anything since 1989," when trading rights were proposed for acid rain.
This brew of conflict and scientific uncertainty seems a recipe for political gridlock. But a solution is in the works.
For one thing, the penalties for states that fail to present serious plans by the deadline in November represent an incentive to compromise. While state officials might welcome a Federal takeover of the cleanup, they would not relish the consequences. Once the deadline is missed, a sanction clock starts ticking that would lead to a cutoff of highway funds and a moratorium on business growth within two years.
Some participants in the debate have sketched the outlines of a deal. One element would be the California tailpipe standard, softened by allowing auto makers to buy emissions rights from other sources. Mr. Dudek calculates that trading under these conditions would save the auto industry $5 billion from 1996 to 2004.
Another element would limit power plants' emissions of nitrogen compounds but let the plants trade emissions upwind. Thus a New Jersey utility could buy emissions rights from a plant in Pennsylvania, but not vice versa. The deal would be sweetened for Pennsylvania by setting exceptionally tough emissions standards for power producers along the Amtrak corridor, in effect requiring the east to subsidize nitrogen compound reduction in the west.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; SMOG; CLEAN AIR ACT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SMOG (94%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ASTHMA (78%); VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (68%); POWER PLANTS (68%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (67%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER TZIPORA LIVNI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



26 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Mood Swing Hits Tokyo

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 30

 BODY:
When Morihiro Hosokawa took office last summer promising to clean up rampant political corruption and open up the minutely regulated economy, he was greeted with almost giddy optimism. Nobody expected change overnight, but just placing it on the agenda after 39 years of one-party rule gave Mr. Hosokawa the highest approval ratings of any Prime Minister in the postwar era.
On Monday a close ally of Mr. Hosokawa's, Tsutomu Hata, became Prime Minister and pledged to continue the reforms, but the mood this time is a mixture of wary hopefulness and cynicism. 
 The realization that change can also mean instability has left the Japanese far more sober-minded about what lies ahead in the remarkable reform effort they have begun.
 
On a Knife's Edge
 The coming week is a holiday period known as Golden Week, and it will give Mr. Hata and his Cabinet some respite after the open bitterness of the succession battle. But once parliamentary business resumes, one fact is likely to dominate public perceptions and the political maneuvering: Mr. Hata is head of a minority Government that can be brought down any time the opposition chooses.
In short, his conservative Government will be operating on a knife's edge. The news media here have already declared that its lifespan may be measured in weeks, which means that the prospect of its producing strong policies on several pressing crises -- ending the recession, changing the tax structure and reducing the yawning trade surplus -- are slim.
"It is impossible to expect anything from the minority Hata Cabinet on big policy issues," Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's most respected daily business newspaper, said in an editorial. It added that a new election was likely, and soon.
That means Mr. Hata is unlikely to have the support to negotiate a broad trade agreement with the United States soon, despite his stated intention of opening the economy in ways that Washington has demanded.
That prospect is one reason the value of the yen soared against the dollar in New York on Friday, some traders said. Despite occasional assertions to the contrary, the Clinton Administration is believed to favor a strong yen as a weapon for attacking Japan's trade surplus. A strong yen makes exports more expensive in foreign markets, and boosts imports by reducing their cost to Japanese.
 
Traders Push Yen Higher
 So when trade frictions and the surplus grow, traders tend to push the yen higher, as they did on Friday.
Today Japan's largest-circulation newspaper, Yomiuri Shimbun, ran the results of an opinion poll capturing the ambiguous public mood. A surprisingly strong 56.8 percent of those polled said they supported the new minority Government, compared with 71.9 percent approval when Mr. Hosokawa took office.
But the public responded negatively to the way in which Mr. Hata had forged his six-party coalition Government. When the conservative parties in the coalition sought to band together and overpower the Socialists, the Socialists quit in anger. That left Mr. Hata with his minority Government.
In the Yomiuri poll, 57 percent said they thought Mr. Hata's methods for forming his coalition were "forcible." The feeling, even among some of those who disagree with the Socialists' policies, was that Mr. Hata's raw power play against the Socialists violated the old political rules.
As members of Mr. Hosokawa's Government, the Socialists proved unreliable partners. Some fought against bills reforming the electoral and campaign financing systems. But the public seems to have found them a buffer against the more rightward-leaning policies of Mr. Hata's core supporters.
 
Cabinet More Conservative
 Indeed, Mr. Hata's Cabinet is considerably more conservative than Mr. Hosokawa's, and even more conservative than some of the previous Liberal Democratic Governments.
For instance, for the first time in the postwar era, the Cabinet includes a retired general. Shigeto Nagano, 71, the Justice Minister, was the highest officer in the Ground Self-Defense Force, as the Japanese Army is known, before retiring and winning a seat in Parliament in the 1980's.
The Foreign Minister is Koji Kakizawa, 60, an articulate former Finance Ministry bureaucrat who has argued that Japan should end its postwar pacifism and allow its military to be used abroad in peacekeeping missions. That independent stance is anathema to Japan's leftists, and even to many older Liberal Democrats who remember World War II and distrust the ability of civilians to control the military.
"In international affairs we have to be open to collective security arrangements, to have shared responsibility in our security affairs," Mr. Kakizawa said in an interview. "I don't just mean financial responsibility, but shared risk-taking in maintaining the security of this region."
Ultimately, the question is whether the Government will last long enough for its security policies to be tested. Its first task will be to pass a long-delayed budget for the fiscal year that began on April 1. After that, the Government's existence could grow more precarious by the day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN INC (54%); NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN EUROPE LTD-FRANKFURT (54%); NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN AMERICA INC (54%); NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN EUROPE LTD (54%); NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN SINGAPORE PTE LTD (54%); THE SOCIALISTS (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE SOCIALISTS (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); CURRENCIES (86%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); JAPANESE YEN (85%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO; HATA, TSUTOMU (PRIME MIN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



27 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says It Is Pleased Syrians Are Acting to Limit Terrorism

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, April 30

 BODY:
Secretary of State Warren Christopher told Syrian officials today that the United States was pleased that Damascus has taken steps recently to curb terrorism, among them closing two training camps run by Abu Nidal, the prominent terrorist leader.
Mr. Christopher met late into the night with President Hafez al-Assad and other Syrian officials to discuss a new Israeli peace plan. In an earlier session with Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa, he said Damascus had made some progress on terrorism at a time when Syria hopes to be removed from Washington's list of countries that sponsor terrorism. 
 American and Israeli officials acknowledge that as Mr. Assad moves cautiously forward in peace talks with Israel, he is maneuvering for a big reward: improved political and economic ties with the United States. But American officials caution that this cannot happen until Syria is removed from both the terrorism list and the list of countries that do too little to fight drug trafficking.
 
Concern Over Arms Deal
 Mr. Christopher also told Mr. Sharaa of American concerns about a recent arms deal signed by Syria and Russia and about reports that a ring of counterfeiters based in Syria was producing high-quality $100 bills.
The Secretary of State flew from Israel to Damascus today to present a new Israeli peace plan to Mr. Assad in the hope that it would end the deadlock in peace talks between the two countries.
Israeli officials said the plan called for Israel to make a phased withdrawal from the Golan Heights, which it captured in 1967 and annexed in 1981. In return, Syria would grant full diplomatic relations to Israel and sign a peace accord. The plan also proposes demilitarizing the Golan Heights and establishing a multinational peace force to patrol the area.
State Department officials say Mr. Christopher may meet again with President Assad on Sunday, after Syrian officials study the Israeli plan. Later on Sunday, Mr. Christopher is scheduled to return to Israel to tell Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin about Mr. Assad's response.
Before Mr. Christopher met with President Assad, an Administration official said the Secretary of State would convey Washington's concerns about Syria's human rights performance and would seek to arrange a visit to Syria by a high-level American human rights official.
In Mr. Christopher's meetings on Friday with Israeli officials, the Israelis agreed with him that Syria had made some recent progress in combating terrorism, American officials said. Syria, which exercises considerable sway over Lebanon, recently shut down an camp run by Abu Nidal's organization, Fatah Revolutionary Council, near Beirut and another camp in the Bekaa region of Lebanon.
 
Party of God Detentions
 State Department officials said they found it encouraging that Syria had several leaders of the Iranian-backed Party of God arrested after they led a recent demonstration in southern Lebanon. Although the members of the group, which American officials say has carried out numerous assassinations and hostage-takings, were released, American officials said the arrests could be an important sign that Syria is trying to crack down on the Party of God.
But some Administration officials have said recently that the State Department, in its eagerness to push peace negotiations forward, might be too willing to recognize Syrian progress on terrorism.
State Department officials say it is too early to tell whether Syria will be removed from the list of countries that sponsor terrorism.
Mr. Christopher told Foreign Minister Sharaa of Washington's concerns that Damascus had not stopped the drug trade from flourishing in the Bekaa. American officials say Syria has eliminated some of the poppy cultivation in the region but has not done enough to stop the production and transshipment of drugs.
Regarding the deal on arms sales signed last week between Syria and Russia, American officials said Mr. Christopher would ask the Syrians what weapons systems would be sold.
"We're concerned that the memorandum of understanding they signed might call for some technology transfers from Russia," an Administration official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (96%); LEBANON (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (95%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (69%); PARTY OF GOD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (69%); PARTY OF GOD (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (96%); LEBANON (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (95%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM TERRORISM (92%); PEACE PROCESS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); AL FATAH (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (53%); COUNTERFEITING (52%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); ABU NIDAL (TERRORIST LEADER) ABU NIDAL (92%); HAFEZ AL-ASSAD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



28 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Majority of Americans Say Cigarettes Spur Addiction

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

 BODY:
An overwhelming majority of Americans say that cigarettes are addictive and that tobacco companies do not tell the whole truth in acknowledging the health risks of smoking, the latest New York Times/CBS News poll shows.
The results indicated strong sentiments against smoking and tobacco companies at a time when cigarette company executives are defending themselves in Congress against charges that they are manipulating the levels of nicotine in cigarettes and have suppressed research showing the addictive effects of smoking. 
 Noteworthy in the survey was that smokers, about a quarter of the respondents, were nearly as critical of the tobacco industry as non-smokers. A substantial number of smokers -- 39 percent -- favored a ban on smoking in public places.
"I think they're lying to gain money, and I say that with all the conviction I can," Rita O'Brien, a 38-year-old kindergarten teacher in Philadelphia and a nonsmoker, said in a follow-up interview of tobacco company assertions that cigarettes are not addictive. She said that her husband had failed in his most recent attempt to quit smoking and that he now smokes more than ever, up to three packs of cigarettes a day.
"Since he started smoking again," she said, "he feels the same way I do."
The telephone survey of 1,215 adults was conducted April 21-23. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
 
A Growing Antipathy
 The anti-smoking sentiments expressed in the survey reflected a growing antipathy against smoking in everyday life, as smokers face an increasing number of restrictions on where and when they can smoke. Two-thirds of those responding to the poll favored a smoking ban in all public places, compared with the 61 percent who expressed a similar opinion in a November 1991 poll by the Gallup Organization. And 42 percent said they favored legislation that would ban smoking altogether, compared with 34 percent who answered the same way in a January 1992 Harris poll.
"Most smokers would like to quit," said Susie Agerton, a 36-year-old writer from Meadville, Ala., who has been smoking a pack of cigarettes a day for 10 years. "But we've got to quit passing this on from generation to generation to generation. The buck has to stop with us so that maybe it will stop our children from smoking."
Among the issues facing the tobacco industry, the question of cigarette addiction through nicotine is attracting enormous attention. Dr. David A. Kessler, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, suggested earlier this year that cigarettes should be regulated like a drug because of nicotine. A House subcommittee is studying the issue.
On Thursday, two former scientists for Philip Morris, the country's largest cigarette maker, told the committee that the company suppressed research in which scientists found evidence of a substance in cigarettes that increases the addictive power of nicotine.
 
Beliefs on Addictiveness
 While the tobacco industry has steadfastly maintained that nicotine is not addictive, 91 percent of those surveyed said they believed that cigarettes are addictive. Among those with that view were 87 percent of those who said they smoke, 91 percent of those who said they used to smoke and 93 percent of those who said they never smoked.
Sam Deniso, a 65-year-old retired construction worker in Malden, Mass., and one of the smokers in the survey, said that he strongly believed that cigarettes are addictive. He cited his own experience as the reason.
A smoker for 50 years, who said he smoked three packs on the days he played poker and no more than two on other days, said in a follow-up interview that he had tried to quit "about 100 times" and succeeded eight times in the last 10 years. Now, he said, he is down to three or four cigarettes a day in an attempt to stop again.
"Sure, they're addictive," he said in an interview, adding that if the tobacco companies contend they are not, "That's a whole bunch of lies, as far as I'm concerned."
He also said that he believed companies added nicotine to maintain addiction.
 
A Role in Cancer?
 Another smoker, John Hampston, a 52-year-old former railroad worker in Duluth, Minn., said he has been smoking for 35 years, now down to one pack a day from four. After 29 cancer operations with the next one scheduled for late May, he said he feels as if he has been addicted to cigarettes for the last 15 years.
Asked if he felt smoking played some role in his illnesses, he bristled: "Not some role. All the role."
Sixty-one percent said they thought that tobacco companies encourage teen-agers to smoke.
Asked if they thought tobacco companies deliberately make cigarettes more addictive than they would be otherwise, 43 percent said they did while 30 percent disagreed. Nearly half the people who never smoked, 48 percent, were more inclined to think the companies manipulated their products, as against 41 percent of those who quit and 36 percent of current smokers.
Eight of 10 people polled, 84 percent, expressed skepticism over tobacco companies' truthfulness in talking about the health risks associated with smoking cigarettes. While health groups have long contended that smoking causes lung cancer, emphysema and other diseases, industry officials have only acknowledged a "link" between smoking and some illnesses.
Only 11 percent of those polled said they felt the companies told the entire truth about the health issues. Forty-five percent said they felt they were mostly truthful but were hiding something and 38 percent said the companies were mostly lying.
Among smokers, 77 percent said the companies were not completely truthful; 90 percent, among former smokers; and 84 percent, among those who never smoked.
More than 6 of 10 people felt that the tobacco companies encouraged teen-agers to smoke, a finding that belies another standard industry assertion. Tobacco executives, including those from R. J. Reynolds, which developed the Joe Camel cartoon character, steadfastly insist that young people are not targets of any marketing campaign.
But among smokers, only 46 percent felt that teen-agers were being targeted, compared with 67 percent among former smokers and those who never smoked.
The survey also revealed that smokers tended to make less money and have less education than nonsmokers. In the lowest economic group, people earning under $15,000 a year, 32 percent of the respondents said they smoked. Among those with annual incomes above $75,000, only 19 percent said they smoked. Among college graduates, 12 percent were smokers. Among those with no more than a high school education, 30 percent smoked.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Attitudes Toward Smoking"

 	 	 	 	 			Current	Former	Never		Total	smokers (26%)	smokers (28%)	smoked (45%)	Say cigarettes	 	 	 	 	are addictive	91%	87%	91%	93%	Favor	 	 	 	 	legislation	 	 	 	 	that bans	 	 	 	 	smoking	 	 	 	 	altogether	42%	14%	45%	57%	Favor a	 	 	 	 	complete ban	 	 	 	 	on smoking	 	 	 	 	in all public	 	 	 	 	places	67%	39%	74%	78%	Think tobacco	 	 	 	 	companies	 	 	 	 	encourage	 	 	 	 	teenagers to	 	 	 	 	smoke	61%	46%	67%	67%	
 
Based on telephone interviews with 1,215 adults nationwide conducted Apr. 21-23.
 
Source: The New York Times/CBS News Poll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; PUBLIC OPINION TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); SMOKING (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING BANS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); SMOKING CESSATION (78%); CHILDREN (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



29 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Trial On Oil Spill Starts Monday

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, April 30

 BODY:
Five years after the Exxon Valdez oil spill off the Alaska coast, 10,000 fishermen, property owners and Alaskan natives will soon have a chance to argue their case against the Exxon Corporation.
In the civil trial, opening on Monday in Federal District Court here, the plaintiffs will seek to prove that the pollution damaged their culture and livelihoods. 
 Exxon, the world's largest corporation, refused to comment.
Brian O'Neill, the plaintiffs' lead lawyer, says the proceedings will captivate even people with no monetary interest because the history of the spill provides a cautionary tale of environmental disaster.
"If something's not done, it will happen in your backyard next," Mr. O'Neill said. "This is corporate indifference and arrogance at its worst."
This is the first civil trial resulting from the accident on March 24, 1989, when the tanker strayed from shipping lanes, ran aground on a charted reef and spilled almost 11 million gallons of North Slope crude into Prince William Sound.
Exxon has already paid substantial fines and cleanup fees. In 1990, accused of Federal environmental crimes, the company agreed to pay $100 million in restitution and $150 million in fines.
The next year, it paid $900 million to settle state and Federal civil claims over environmental damage.
The company has also spent an estimated $2 billion to clean beaches and inlets in Prince William Sound and the Gulf of Alaska and to restore the habitat for wildlife.
 
Money Can't Fix Harm
 The oil killed half a million birds outright and tainted an estimated 1,500 miles of coastline. Today, scientists still worry that oil trapped under hard-shell mussel beds will slowly leak and cause long-term chronic pollution.
"Money can't really correct all the harm done," said John Havelock, a former Alaska Attorney General who directed a state commission formed to examine the spill. "I guess you could say the trial will show that a million dollars in prevention would be better than a billion dollars in court fines.".
In the four-phase trial before Judge H. Russel Holland, jurors will decide any liability on Exxon's part, then separately determine any punitive or compensatory damages owed; the plaintiffs have asked for about $1.5 billion in compensation. A fourth phase will resolve miscellaneous claims, like those from miners claiming damage from the oil.
Lawyers on both sides predict the trial will last all summer and say it is the most complicated of its kind ever to be tried in the state.
Almost 600 witnesses are scheduled in a case that has amassed 2,000 depositions and five million pages of documents. Lawyers planned to manage the paperwork with an in-court computer that will retrieve evidence and automatically display it for the jury.
 
Suit by Mayors
 A second civil trial begins on June 6 in state Superior Court and involves seven towns whose mayors say they lost municipal services diverted to the spill. Other state plaintiffs include 13 corporation owned by Alaskan natives, which have claimed damage to lands and archaeological sites.
In pretrial motions, Judge Holland rejected Exxon's request to withhold financial data, including its total wealth, from jurors in the punitive damages stage. He also barred Alaskan natives from collecting for damage to their culture and way of life. They may, however, still sue for economic damage, like the loss of fish, wild game and plants that make up their traditional diet.
Exxon spokesmen declined to comment on the trial in two telephone interviews in the last two weeks, but a company lawyer has said Exxon's trial strategy will be to concentrate on marine science, fish abundance and whether there are any lingering effects from the accident.
Mr. O'Neill said the plaintiffs will focus on Exxon's employment of Joseph Hazelwood, who was tried and acquitted in state court in 1990 for operating a vessel while drunk. Mr. Hazelwood has appealed a misdemeanor conviction for negligently discharging oil.
 
Accusations About Drinking
 The 1990 Federal indictment filed against Exxon but never brought before a jury asserted that Exxon lawyers had heard accusations of drinking against Mr. Hazelwood 19 months before the accident.
Jurors will hear from the former captain in a plaintiffs' videotape lasting more than three hours.
"This is a big, powerful company that didn't care enough about its employee -- or the public -- to do anything about the employee's personal problems," Mr. O'Neill said of Exxon and its captain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON CORP EXXON MOBIL CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXXON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; UNITED STATES (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; TRIALS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EXXON VALDEZ (TANKER); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY OIL SPILLS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (92%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); BEACHES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DAMAGES (77%); WITNESSES (77%); DEPOSITIONS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); WILDLIFE (76%); LAND RECLAMATION (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); JUDGES (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (64%); 

PERSON: BRIAN O'NEILL (67%); JOSEPH HAZELWOOD (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



30 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Can't Explain a Slowdown in Tax Filing

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 30

 BODY:
Tax returns have been coming in more slowly so far this year, but the Internal Revenue Service does not know why.
Through April 22, the agency received 103.6 million returns, down from 104.1 million through the comparable date a year earlier, the I.R.S. said on Friday. The number of requests for extensions filed dropped to 2.6 million from 3.6 million. 
 At the beginning of this year, the I.R.S. was expecting 117.5 million returns by year's end. It has scaled back the projection to 114.9 million and is considering reducing the projection again, said a spokesman, Frank Keith. Last year, 113.8 million returns were received.
Mr. Keith said officials believed that about 800,000 of the decline could be attributed to the agency's efforts to inform people who have been filing unnecessarily. The agency has also noticed fewer returns reporting only interest income, because declining interest rates have pushed some of those taxpayers below the filing threshold, he said.
But the General Accounting Office wants the I.R.S. to make sure the declining number of returns is not a reflection of a lapse in compliance.
"There is that concern," said David J. Attianese, the accounting office's assistant director for tax policy and administration. "If you go by the trends of the last several years, they should have had an increase, but they didn't. I think it's significant, but we're still trying to figure out why it's happening."
The decline in returns comes during an I.R.S. campaign to close the gap between what taxpayers actually pay and what they are supposed to pay. The compliance rate is about 80 percent, the agency estimates. Its goal is to push the rate to 90 percent by the year 2000.
Despite the overall decline in returns filed this year, the number of paperless returns continues to increase. The I.R.S. said 13.4 million returns were filed electronically by tax preparation services, up from 12.3 million last year.
 
Telephone Returns Are Up
 It said 519,000 returns were filed by telephone in the seven states where taxpayers could use that method, up from 149,000 last year, when only Ohio residents were eligible. The agency plans to announce its telephone filing plans for next year this summer.
By April 22, the I.R.S. had sent out 56 million refunds, down from 56.4 million last year. Refunds averaged $1,026 each, up from $979 last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INCOME TAX (79%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



31 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Severance Plan Is Affecting Many of System's Younger Workers

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Faced with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's program offering severance payments, thousands of municipal workers have been considering whether to leave their jobs and take the lump-sum payments. Some made the decision easily, while others say they agonized over what to do.
Under the severance program, aimed at helping to close a $2.3 billion budget gap in the next fiscal year, workers who agree to give up their jobs can receive $3,500 to $15,000 based on length of service. On Friday the Mayor extended the deadline to the middle of next week in hopes of reaching the target of 7,600 workers; about 7,000 had taken the offer already. 
 Many who have decided to take the severance payment are only in their 20's or 30's and are now casting about for a new career -- some eagerly, some with regret.
 
Chilled by the Freeze

Marianne Paciulli has worked in the Department of City Planning's environmental assessment review division for five years. Ms. Paciulli, who is 32 years old and lives with her husband in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn, said the decision to leave grew out of increasing dissatisfaction with her job.
"Unfortunately, my timing with the job was all wrong," she said. "When I came to the job there was a hiring freeze and so, at every turn, I was squashed in my efforts to get a raise or a promotion. After a while it got frustrating to be stuck in a situation I wasn't happy with."
When the Giuliani administration announced its severance plan, "I wasn't too keen on the idea," she said. "But then I realized that I wouldn't get too far in city government and that this fiscal problem is not going to be cleared up any time in the next year or so."
Nonetheless, she said, the decision to leave was not particularly easy. "It took a week to make the decision. It is a big step to walk away from a job without having another one." But she reasoned that with her husband in a secure position with the city, she had nothing to lose. "I'm debt free, and I get $7,500 that I can play with or use for school if I decide to go back to school. Besides, summer is a good time to be unemployed."
She wants to work with a nonprofit organization "to help people who are struggling with AIDS," she said. "It seemed like the time to make a change in my life. I figured, why not take the money and run?"
 
Wouldn't Risk Layoff
Peter A. Valiente, who performs environmental reviews for the city's planning department, said that when he heard that Mayor Giuliani might resort to layoffs to eliminate the $2.3 billion deficit in the next fiscal year, he wondered what it meant for him. "My boss called us in and told us to prepare for the worst," he said.
He read and heard about the severance package, "but no one could assure me that I wouldn't be on the list of people to be laid off," he said. "So, after agonizing, I decided that it would be better to take the money than to risk being laid off."
Mr. Valiente, who is 29 years old, lives in Chelsea and has worked for the city for 18 months, after leaving an engineering job in New Jersey. He said he will now "seriously upgrade my computer skills and take courses on data-base management. I want to add to my skills and make myself more marketable."
While he said he relishes the opportunity to use his $7,500 to take courses and seek new employment, he maintains some bitterness toward the city's severance program. "It seems to me, just from talking to other city workers I know, that the city is losing a lot of young people who are still enthusiastic about their jobs," he said.
"I would have liked to have done this job for a couple more years because I have enjoyed it. But mostly, I'm disappointed."
 
Moving to New Zone
 Gay M. Pinto has worked as a procurement manager for the Parks Department for more than 10 years. "I have loved my time with the city and I have made some good friends here," he said. "It was a tough decision for me, but I looked at it as an opportunity to do something I've always wanted to do."
Mr. Pinto, who is 40 and married, lives in the Williamsbridge section of the Bronx and has lived in various parts of the city since moving from Trinidad as a child. He said he, his wife and their 2-year-old son would move to Florida "so that we can visit family, I can begin looking or a job and we can make the transition from being New Yorkers."
Mr. Pinto said that despite recent cuts to the budget of the Parks Department and a reduction in the agency's work force, he was not concerned about being laid off. "I have been here for 10 years and felt that my job was pretty secure," he said. "But I guess I took the severance package as a sign that, for me, it was time to move on. Things are changing in this city. Things haven't gotten any better and it doesn't seem like they will any time soon."
He has no idea, he said, what sort of work he will seek and acknowledges that he has concerned about the prospects for a 40-year-old man looking for work. "I plan to look for something in the same field, but I don't know what kind of work I'll be able to find there. But I feel it was something I had to do. No matter what happens, I won't look back."
 
'Incredibly Difficult'
 Laura Ruttenberg contends that he decision to take the severance package was one of the most difficult questions she has faced. For her, it represented a choice between an interesting job with questionable career advancement or taking time to make decisions about what she wanted to pursue for the remainder of her professional life.
"It was an incredibly difficult decision for me," said Ms. Ruttenberg, who is 27 and director of community relations for the Parks Department for Manhattan. "It was wrenching."
"It has been a great job, with interesting people and interesting aspects to the job," she said. "But I knew, because of the budget problems and the cutbacks, there was no next step at the Parks Department for me. I began to feel that I was at a dead end, professionally. But I didn't know what my next move should have been."
Ms. Ruttenberg, who has been with the parks system for more than three years, after graduating from Barnard College, said she viewed the severance package as a chance to compel herself to come up with a career strategy. "It's kind of like sky diving and having to push yourself out of the plane. I want to go into the special events and fund-raising area. I'm going to take some classes in conference planning, but I'm not certain what direction I'm going to go in."
She said the $7,500 payment from the severance package will enable her to pay rent for six months. "It was a tough decision. But I feel that I now have an opportunity to find out exactly what I want to do with my career. This is a golden opportunity that doesn't come along too often."
 
Heart in San Francisco

Sean L. Spear said he fell in love with the San Francisco Bay area some years ago and has since harbored the dream of living there. Now, Mr. Spear, a 27-year-old planner who lives and works in Brooklyn, will fulfill that dream.
"I will settle my affairs here in New York and then I will move to there and look for work," he said. "If I had a wife and kids I might have made a different decision because it's not easy to walk away from a job. But I've always wanted to expand my horizons, live somewhere else and have a new kind of life."
The decision to take the severance package was difficult, he said. "I have not been unhappy with my job. New York is my home town, I have a lot of friends here and ties to the city." Mr. Spear started working for the city immediately after graduating from Cornell University. "I thought that, after five years at the job, it was time to move up and I was torn about leaving because of the potential for promotion. But I figured that I am at an age in my life where I can find another job."
He said he plans to continue working in municipal planning. He, too, will receive $7,500 from the severance package. "I hope to save as much of that as I can. Hopefully, it won't take too long for me to find another job."
 
Fantastic Timing
 Paige Van Wirt, a Housing Department project manager in Brooklyn, received a job offer from Moody's Investors Service on the same day the Giuliani Administration announced the severance offer. That enabled her to receive a $7,500 payment and walk into her next job.
"It was a stroke of luck for me," she said. Still, she admitted, taking advantage of the severance offer was not an idea she embraced immediately. "It wasn't easy because I really enjoyed what I was doing," said Ms. Van Wirt, who is single and 26 years old. As a project manager, she supervised the development of housing initiatives in five areas of Brooklyn.
"It's a big decision to walk away from something you love doing. But I mulled it over and I took the severance package to be a nudge. It seemed to tell me that it was time to move into a new career path." In the meantime, she said, she must stay on for another three weeks to qualify for the severance package. "I have some vacation time coming," she said. "So I will use my vacation time to qualify for the severance, and start at my new job in that time period. Things have worked out kind of perfectly for me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sean L. Spear, A planner in Department of City Planning -- "I have not been unhappy with my job." (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); Laura Ruttenberg, Manhattan community relations director, Parks Department -- "It was an incredibly difficult decision for me." (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PARKS DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKS DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SEVERANCE PAY (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HICKS, JONATHAN P; SPEAR, SEAN L; RUTTENBERG, LAURA RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



32 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER: WORLD CUP '94;
A Controversial World Cup Coach Keeps Them All Guessing

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MILAN, Italy, April 29

 BODY:
Arrigo Sacchi? The man is crazy, his critics are howling. Fire him now before all of Italy is humiliated. Only 50 days until the World Cup and Sacchi has still not named his team. The man can't make up his mind. He is a juggler, not a coach. He has called up 73 players to the national team in two and half years. Seventy-three! Guerin Sportivo, a soccer magazine, once ran pictures of all 73 and threw in mug shots of Pope John Paul II, Robin Williams as Popeye and Sylvester Stallone as Rambo to illustrate Sacchi's indecisiveness.
"Arrigo, have you forgotten anyone?" the headline snorted. 
 A familiar soccer panic has gripped this country like a hand around the throat. The prevailing mood is glum, the national hysteria proclaiming that the Azzurri, the Blues, cannot win in the United States. Sacchi has become an emotional dartboard for frustrated fans and journalists, the target for relentless criticism. It was bad enough that Italy lost "friendly" matches this year to France and Germany. It was unforgivable that the Azzurri suffered a 2-1 defeat recently at the hands of Pontedera, a team in Italy's fourth division, a minnow among soccer whales.
Gazzetta dello Sport, the largest of Italy's three all-sports newspapers, screamed in a front-page headline: "Let's send Pontedera to the World Cup."
 
They Call Him 'Crazy'
 America Oggi, an Italian-language newspaper published in New Jersey, went further and called for Sacchi's firing. "Sacchi must go now before it's too late," the newspaper demanded. Attilio Giovannini, a member of the Italian teams at the 1950 and '54 World Cups, dismissed Sacchi's conscription of so many players and called him "crazy."
This is nothing out of the ordinary, saner voices remind. Italy felt the same dread in 1982 and won the World Cup. Worry is to be expected as a national indulgence. Not everyone can play soccer, but everyone can panic.
"It's pretty normal," said the Italian star, Roberto Baggio, the world player of the year in 1993. "So much is expected."
"A typical Italian overreaction," said Germany's Jurgen Klinsmann, who has played in the Italian League with Inter of Milan. "They are still one of the favorites."
 
A Dream Job
 It is said that everyone is a coach in Italy, but Arrigo Sacchi is the coach. As he sat in his small, tidy apartment on a quiet Milan street the other day, he appeared to be calm at the center of this storm. The son of a shoemaker, Sacchi is 48, balding gracefully, a Renaissance man among coaches, an avid reader of politics and economics and the fiction of Steinbeck and Faulkner, his conversation volleying comfortably between English and Italian. Always, he said, he works with music on. He is a "dreamer" who would impose his disciplined system of attacking offense and pressing zone defense on independent-minded players and an unconvinced public.
The criticism doesn't eat at him, said Sacchi, who took over the national team in October 1991. He was not a great player, and he has climbed from the lowliest division of Italian soccer in his 20 years of coaching, so "I am accustomed to suffering and criticism." This is not a hard job, it is a dream job, Sacchi said, one that pays $800,000 a year. "Utopia." With a straight face, he said he not only reads the sports newspapers, he learns from them.
So passionate are the Italians for soccer that three sports dailies provide saturation coverage and a Sunday night program called "The 90th Minute," which provides highlights of the day's games, is among the most popular shows on television. At the AC Milan-Monaco game on Wednesday, a semifinal in the European Champions Cup tournament, 80,000 fans packed San Siro Stadium here, cheering, singing, bouncing like human popcorn and setting off Roman candles and flairs smuggled inside loaves of bread, clothing, and oversized flags.
Soccer interest permeates a top level of government. The designated Prime Minister of Italy's 53d Government since World War II, Silvio Berlusconi, owns the AC Milan team along with a media empire, and has even appropriated a popular soccer chant, Forza Italia, as the name of his nascent political party. Naturally, the national team coach is always under a microscope.
 
Sacchi's System
 When fame becomes burdensome, Sacchi retreats to his home in tiny Fusignano, outside of Bologna, and goes for long, solitary rides in the country on a mountain bike. Several days ago, Sacchi came upon a farmer hacking at the earth with a hoe, and said the man told him, "I follow the football because you are the coach. I root for you. You can win the cup. But if you don't win, you've done enough anyway."
Of course, Sacchi knows, not everyone feels this way. Only victory in the World Cup will satisfy impatient fans and journalists. They want to know why it takes so long to name a team. The World Cup begins June 17 and he will not select the final 22-man squad until May 12. Why does he experiment with so many players?
"It's a lot easier to win with 80 players than 11," Sacchi says, jokingly, then says no, he must give a serious answer.
It is because he believes in a system "that grows out of the head, not from the feet," a system that demands humility, altruism and professionalism, a system that values the team over the individual. It is a struggle. Italy is a country of egotists, Sacchi said, where a man is taught to think for himself.
One of his players once told him, "When I move without the ball, the television doesn't show me."
If he can find 22 players to fit his system, the coach said, "It will be an Italian record."
When he coached at AC Milan, people also doubted his tactics, Sacchi said, but he won an Italian League title and two European Cups. Soccer in Italy continues to evolve from a style of conservative defense and counterattack, where the only thing that mattered was not losing, toward "total soccer," where Sacchi wants versatility -- counterattacking, attacking as a tactical weapon, the long-ball attack, everything. He not only wants to win, he wants to win with an entertaining show.
"I believe in attacking soccer, where you have to create and do a lot of things," Sacchi said. "But anytime you risk defeat, nobody wants to attack. They want to withdraw."
 
Planned Confusion
 So he juggles his attackers and deflects the criticism. Why did it take Sacchi so long to move to the front Giusseppe Signori of Lazio, who has 21 goals in 23 league games, instead of Pierluigi Casiraghi, who has found the net only three times? Where will Baggio play? People are clamoring to know. Forward or midfield? To keep people guessing is precisely the idea, Sacchi said. His methods are not indecisive, he said, but planned confusion.
"I hope to have a team where it is difficult to know who will be forward, who will be midfield or defender," Sacchi said. "If it is clear, Italy will not play well."
While controversy swirls with tornado force, Sacchi appears not to be buffeted. If they are calling him names, at least they are calling him something. When he first coached in the Italian top division, Sacchi said journalists called him Mr. Nobody.
That's all right, a friend told him. Life is a big cake and everyone wants to sit at the big, round table and have a piece. Everyone is pushing for a seat.
Not you, Arrigo, the friend said. You don't have to push. You already have a seat. You already have your cake.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arrigo Sacchi (Mike Hewitt/Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER) SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (92%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); WRITERS (76%); 

PERSON: SACCHI, ARRIGO; LONGMAN, JERE POPE JOHN PAUL II (57%); MICHAEL SYLVESTER 'SYLVESTER' STALLONE (57%); ROBIN WILLIAMS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



33 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Unwarranted Criticism of Japan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I must take issue with several points in your coverage of the Japanese bureaucracy. First, the caption with the photograph of Masamichi Kono distorts what is stated in the text -- that Mr. Kono and fellow bureaucrats did not inform bankers in advance about "an initiative for helping the banks write off bad loans to finance companies." The fact that Japanese bureaucrats are secretive about their intentions does not distinguish them from bureaucrats elsewhere. The caption twisted Mr. Kono's not advising the banks of his agency's intentions to imply that he "knows more about the bank crisis than the bankers." Does every bureaucracy that is secretive about its intentions know more about the industry it regulates than people in the industry? 
 Second, the article suggests that the people it describes "have good reason for their self-confidence" because "they are usually credited with spearheading Japan's impressive recovery from the ruins of World War II." But if the current generation of bureaucrats are self-confident or smug, it is not because they created Japan's postwar affluence but because they grew up in it.
 
JAMES R. BRECKENRIDGE
Manhattan, April 15
 
The writer is a lawyer in New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (84%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (84%); NEW YORK, USA (84%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); TRENDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: BRECKENRIDGE, JAMES R MASAMICHI KONO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



34 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
An Inspector Calls

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
Everyone loves a thriller, and Broadway got a sensational one last week, with the arrival of Stephen Daldry's stunning production of "An Inspector Calls." Yet the most suspenseful drama unfolding around Times Square right now may be offstage, where real-life inspectors are infiltrating the shadowy Damon Runyonesque underworld of ticket scalping. At stake is not only consumer confidence in the Broadway theater but also an all-cash criminal economy generating millions of untaxed dollars in the heart of Rudolph Giuliani's budget-crunched New York.
The star of this production is the politically ambitious G. Oliver Koppell, who is filling out Robert Abrams's term as New York State Attorney General and is up for election this fall. Last month Mr. Koppell began filing suits against flagrant out-of-state brokers who scalp Madison Square Garden events like the Big East basketball tournament and Barbra Streisand concerts. Next thing he knew, Mr. Koppell says, "everyone from parking attendants to partners in Wall Street law firms" was cheering him on to widen his inquiry. Then "a number of people came forward as informants." 
 Now a task force involving two different divisions of the Attorney General's office is extending the investigation into Broadway's ticket distribution system. Mr. Koppell sees his constituency as the ordinary consumers who are infuriated by their inability to buy good seats legitimately, presumably because many of them are diverted to scalpers.
To see how large the problem is, two Times colleagues put themselves in the position of out-of-town tourists who wanted to plan a weekend trip to New York around a Broadway show. They tried to buy prime orchestra seats, fifth to tenth row center, by phone for a Friday or Saturday night -- any Friday or Saturday -- for five different plays. And failed each time.
At "The Phantom of the Opera," the Telecharge salesperson flatly said that on Saturdays "nothing is available in the center orchestra for the entire run of the show" -- despite the fact that the run is unlimited. But not even "Blood Brothers," an unprofitable production on its last legs, could fill the order. No wonder tourists turn to scalpers, or give up on Broadway altogether.
Mr. Koppell's job is to find out where all those tickets go, and how they get there. Few in the theater doubt that ice plays a major role. Ice is the industry's term -- derived from an old machine politicians' acronym for Incidental Campaign Expenses -- for bribes paid by scalpers for prime tickets at the box office. Since Broadway box offices -- and their phone extensions, like Telecharge -- are run by the theaters' owners, not the individual shows that are tenants, many producers are rooting for the Attorney General to help them at last gain control of their own ticket inventory. "Shows are hosts surrounded by parasites," says a producer; he believes one theater employee collected up to $15,000 tax-free a week in ice at one of his hits.
Meanwhile, fear reigns. Shortly after Mr. Koppell's investigation first leaked out in The New York Observer, the Shubert Organization, Broadway's largest theater owner, fired the manager and box-office staff of its Philadelphia touring outpost, the Forrest, but refuses to explain why to reporters. No producer I contacted would speak about ice for attribution; one refused to talk on the phone and instructed me to meet him instead in an anonymous midtown office.
This is a crucial moment for Broadway. The pre-Tony Awards boom is on. After an abominable winter, the street's marquees are alight again with big names -- Stephen Sondheim, Arthur Miller, Tommy Tune, Disney. But how many plays will survive Labor Day? For the first extended period in memory, not a single Broadway show, the big musicals included, is a consistent sellout.
Smart theater people know that high ticket prices compounded by scalping are driving away business when Broadway needs every customer it can get. Smart politicians know that ticket scandals are political windfalls: Louis Lefkowitz, the Attorney General who uncovered $10 million in Broadway ice in 1963, was on the front page for months. Smart New Yorkers know that Broadway's health is essential to the city's economy. With passions like these at play, who doubts that Mr. Koppell has the makings of a smash hit?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (56%); NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); THEATER (89%); TICKET AGENCIES (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (88%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); BASKETBALL (53%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK RUDY GIULIANI (57%); FRANK RICH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



35 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Children Without Mothers Are at Special Risk

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I have been disheartened to see that recent reports about the vulnerability of America's children ("Study Confirms Some Fears on U.S. Children," news article, April 12; "4 Million Children Said to Live in 'Distress,' " news article, April 25) omit any mention of a specific population at high risk for later troubles: motherless children. "Single-parent households" are almost routinely assumed to be female-headed, when in fact many thousands of children in this country are being raised by fathers or other relatives. 
 In 1988, the last year for which the Social Security Administration collected such data, 588,000 children under the age of 18 had lost their mothers to death -- a figure that doesn't even begin to include those families where mothers are absent due to divorce, abandonment, alcoholism, mental impairment and imprisonment. Yet because children in single-father households are more likely to be economically secure, and because acknowledging early mother loss makes us all just a little bit uncomfortable at the core, scores of motherless children are overlooked in America every day.
I can tell you, based on both personal experience and interviews with hundreds of motherless American women, that losing a mother at an early age is one of the most stressful life events a person can face. It completely rips apart the fabric of a child's life.
If a son or daughter who loses a mother never receives adequate substitute mothering, the loss can do long-term damage to his or her self-esteem, ability to relate to other people, overall feelings of security and ability to trust others.
Motherless women have also reported sexual abuse by fathers or stepbrothers after their mothers had died, difficulties maintaining relationships as adults, and debilitating post-partum depressions. Just as growing up in poverty has lifelong effects on a child, so does growing up without involved and consistent emotional care.
While it has been easy for us to overlook motherless children in recent years, the AIDS epidemic will soon make us unable to ignore their plight. We are headed for both a social and emotional crisis in this respect. In 1983, 255 American children under the age of 18 lost mothers to AIDS; by the year 2000, that figure is likely to surpass 80,000, a 300-fold increase.
About one-third of those children will be New York City residents. Not only will social service organizations have to provide for the care of thousands of motherless children, but someone will have to explain to each one why his or her mother is gone. If we can't do a better job of preventing and curing the causes of death -- such as AIDS, cancer and accidents -- that take young mothers away from their children, the least we can do is begin to acknowledge the difficulties they face.
 
HOPE EDELMAN
New York, April 26, 1994
The writer is the author of "Motherless Daughters."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (90%); PARENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WOMEN (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AIDS & HIV (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (68%); EPIDEMICS (61%); 

PERSON: EDELMAN, HOPE

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



36 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: All-Volunteer Military Was a Highlight of Nixon's Presidency

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The individuals who were asked by the media for their recollections about Richard Nixon have, as best I can tell, wholly neglected his role in ending the draft and establishing the all-volunteer armed forces, which was so highly commended for its performance in the Persian Gulf War. 
 The economist J. Kenneth Galbraith wrote: "The draft survives principally as a device by which we use compulsion to get young men to serve at less than the market rate of pay. We shift the cost of military service from the well-to-do taxpayer who benefits by lower taxes to the impecunious young draftee." But so long as the takings were confined to a minority in the lower middle classes, Congress went along with the renewals of the draft authority.
When the fighting in Vietnam escalated in 1965 and 1966, accompanied by larger draft calls, students on the college campuses voiced their opposition. The Johnson Administration set up a Presidential commission headed by Burke Marshall that recommended that the Selective Service draft be replaced by a lottery. It helped, but students could still avoid being drafted by running to England, Sweden and Canada, or by securing medical deferments or employment in critical occupations.
In his run for the Presidency in 1960, Mr. Nixon said he would end the draft as soon as feasible. On Oct. 23, 1968, during his second run, he repeated this pledge when he said, "It is not so much the way they are selected that is wrong, it is the fact of selection."
Shortly after his inauguration Nixon established the President's Commission on the All Volunteer Force, headed by Thomas S. Gates. The Gates Commission report was presented to Nixon on Feb. 20, 1970.
The record of the Nixon years must include his role in ending compulsion and expanding freedom of choice. Thanks to his actions, the United States armed forces are stronger and more efficient.
 
WALTER Y. OI
Rochester, April 25, 1994
The writer was a senior staff economist on the Gates Commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); VIET NAM (55%); ENGLAND (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GATES COMMISSION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: GATES COMMISSION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); VIET NAM (55%); ENGLAND (53%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); US SELECTIVE SERVICE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS; OI, WALTER Y RICHARD NIXON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



37 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 13; Page 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3356 words

HEADLINE: A Critical Tour of the Empire: Battery Park to High Bridge . . .

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Here is a critical look at a sampling of New York City's parks, from the vast and famous lawns of Central and Prospect Parks to a small and struggling playground in a hard patch of Bedford-Stuyvesant.
 
Manhattan
 
CENTRAL PARK:
THE JEWEL IN THE CROWN
This 840-acre park, of almost transcendental importance to New Yorkers, is often described as the first example of a deliberately planned urban park in America. Today, it is like an engine gathering steam, a model for the public-private partnership many hope will save the city's parks.
Lord Chatham's famous declaration that "parks are the lungs of London," might have been written for Central Park, a swath of green where some 15 million people come to breathe each year. They come as individuals to sit on grass and benches, or to be part of any number of events, from the New York Marathon to Shakespeare in the Park.
It was just two decades ago, as New York lay mired in a fiscal straitjacket, that Central Park appeared to be dying. Erosion was gnawing away at the park's increasingly brown skin, and floods were commonplace. Garbage was picked up, but all other maintenance had virtually stopped. Even the 36 famed stone arches and bridges -- none identical -- were falling apart.
In truth, while the overall Parks Department work force was cut 23 percent during the fiscal crisis, compared with an average of 13 percent in other city agencies, the deterioration of Central Park was not as serious as at other, less famous parks.
Still, Central Park was Central Park, and in 1979, Mayor Edward I. Koch named the park's most vocal advocate, Elizabeth Barlow Rogers, the first administrator of a city park. There was no salary and no budget. Mr. Koch explained, "You know something about fund raising."
As it turned out, people were chomping at the bit to save the park. In its first 10 years, the Conservancy raised more than $50 million, a pace that seems downright laggardly compared with its success so far in the 1990's: to whit, Richard Gilder, a Conservancy trustee, offered the group a $17 million gift, on the condition it raise $17 million from other donors, and that the city contribute $17 million. The city has said yes.
This is not to say everything is perfect, although Ms. Rogers beams with pleasure about the renovation of the long-neglected northern end of the park, Harlem Meer. Cedar Hill, where dogs run, needs to be re-done. Ball fields are badly compacted, and need major drainage repairs. Meadows need to be replanted. Paths need repair.
But the fact is that Central Park has been able to weather a cut in its maintenance staff to 91 from 138.
"What we've built here is a system that will insure there's a future for the park," Ms. Rogers said.
 
RIVERSIDE PARK:
PROGRESS, BIT BY BIT
Henry Hudson described this riverside ribbon of green as "very pleasant, very high and bold." Well, you can't change that. But in recent years, the park has grown dirtier, a bit more menacing. Homeless people make homes in bushes, and two weeks ago, a woman was attacked in the park and defended herself with an ice pick.
There has also been an insidious dialectic at work. When Robert Moses redid the park in the 1930's, he spent far less money on the northern part than on the south. Despite several current capital projects to perk up the north, this perception -- and some of the reality -- persists.
But even as the park's workforce has fallen from 54 to 24 over the last five years, new procedures have helped to lessen the sting. One reform was to cut back shrubs in which people could live, an action that has saved three staff hours a day in the middle section of the park.
Other changes have included asking the various City Council members representing sections adjoining the park to allocate money from their portion of the city's capital budget for specific projects.
Other money comes from the Riverside Park Fund and -- in dribs and drabs -- from the city. People also pay for their own projects. For example, except for one summer attendant, the tennis courts at 95th Street are now totally maintained and operated by the Riverside Clay Tennis Association.
The 91st Street playground is similar. Parents raised $120,000 and Councilwoman Ronnie Eldridge threw in $70,000. That was enough to hire a landscape architect and begin the job. The first step was to enlarge the pits around the dying pin oaks. Then, the inner part of the playground -- whimsical hippopotamus statues that spray water -- was installed. Other phases will be done as more money is raised.
The other day, Diane Englander, a business consultant who lives at 90th Street and Riverside Drive, was at the playground with her son.
"It's getting nicer," she said of the park she loves. "There are more flowers, more trees, more improvements to the playground."
 
HIGH BRIDGE PARK:
 A PERENNIAL PROBLEM
High on the cliffs overlooking the Harlem River and the Bronx, High Bridge Park has long been an example of the trials of maintaining a park that is tremendously important to its neighborhood but a long way, physically and economically, from City Hall.
In the mid-80's, Mr. Stern had ordered a huge cleanup of the park. Dozens of abandoned cars, hundreds of tires, refrigerators, several dead dogs and a human body were found amid the tangled brush.
On a rainy day five years later, at his last public ceremony in the Koch administration, he returned to announce a $1.2 million restoration of the park's landmark, High Bridge Tower, originally used to equalize pressure in the Croton Aqueduct. An arsonist's blaze had wrecked much of it. A homeless man died in the fire.
Today, despite a much-needed lift from three very active Little Leagues, whose participants regularly scrub graffiti and clean litter, it has become more and more difficult to keep up. Debris cast down the steep hill includes old stoves and refrigerators, furniture, any manner of automobile parts and sometimes whole cars.
"A lot of people seem not to be in tune with recycling here," said Milton Rivera, the park's supervisor. "To them, recycling is dumping."
Attendance, particularly when the fine pool is open, is up sharply, but the park's staff has slipped from 24 to 12 over the last four years. Major pedestrian gates must be locked so people don't drive their cars into the park; people must walk in smaller entrances, a bit out of the way. But the big problem is safety, in a park that continues to fight a bitter war of attrition with drugs. It seems somehow fitting that one of the six playgrounds is named for a police officer, Michael J. Buczek, killed nearby in 1988.
So it was that Mr. Stern returned last week to the park within blocks of his boyhood home. He remembered a spring on the side of a cliff. He led a visitor up the steep hill, and, sure enough, pure water still trickled from the earth. But litter was everywhere. He saw clothing and other evidence of a homeless person living in the base of the refurbished -- and locked -- tower.
"We need a massive cleaning effort, a full-scale assault," Mr. Stern said to Mr. Rivera, who ordered his workers to begin work immediately, to uproot hundreds of tires from the vines and weeds. They were joined by dozens scores of reinforcements from other parks.
"He's doing as well as he could," thw Commissioner said. "Maybe he could do 10 percent more, but this needs 1,000 percent."
 
BATTERY PARK:
'A FORLORN WAY STATION'
Battery Park, the first green space in a city cluttered almost from the time the first Dutch settlers arrived in 1625, should be one of the plums of the city. It is more like a shriveled raisin at Manhattan's southern tip.
Some benches are broken, all need repainting. Where grass should be, there is dirt and litter. A sign with a map and guide is so smeared with graffiti it is unreadable. There are potholes on the asphalt where people line up for boats to the Statue of Liberty.
"Battery Park is marred by a flawed design, inadequate maintenance and neglected landmarks," wrote a group of concerned citizens in the process of forming a Battery Park Conservancy. The park, they concluded, is "a forlorn way station." Warrie Price, who is heading the initial efforts to organize the Conservancy, said most of the 375,000 people who work within walking distance of Battery Park -- and the 14,000 predominately new residents who live nearby -- avoid the park because of its dreary appearance. For the 2.5 million passing through to visit Ellis Island and the statue, she says it is an even less pleasant wait.
The Conservancy's first step has been to prepare an architectural plan for redoing the park. It would refurbish the green space, totally rebuild the promenade and perhaps combine the monuments in a "Heroes Walk."
Ms. Price said financing for the $30 million effort seems possible, at least in increments. The National Park Service, which owns Castle Clinton, is interested in replacing the roof -- lost to Robert Moses's never-built bridge to Brooklyn -- and turning the old fort into a new visitor center. Some $2 million in Federal money has been promised to rebuild the seawall. A business improvement district being formed for the downtown area is intensely interested in the project. There is her nascent conservancy.
Ms. Price foresees shade trees over visitors waiting for the boats. She delights over such artistic touches as the dolphins at the base of the elegant lights that have been designed. "It's in the birthing stage," she said.
 
The Bronx
 
PELHAM BAY PARK:
BIG SPACES, BIG NEEDS
Pelham Bay Park is the city's largest park, and one of the richest in resources. Within its 2,764 acres lie the elegant Bartow-Pell Mansion and Revolutionary War historic sites, two 18-hole golf courses and -- the centerpiece -- Orchard Beach, called "The Riviera of New York" after its completion a half-century ago.
It is also a park in need of help.
"I have never seen the park in as bad a condition as it is now," said Marc Hohenstein, a sales representative who heads an enthusiastic but poor volunteer group called Friends of Pelham Bay Park.
The administrator, Linda Dockeray, takes some issue with such a negative view, pointing to a number of ways in which the park is doing more with less. But she readily concedes the park has deteriorated since she grew up a quarter century ago within walking distance of the park. "It just takes so long to get something done," she said.
Ms. Dockeray shows a visitor areas her 28-worker crew has not been able to get to -- broken benches to eroded trails. Debris from the storm of December 1992 has not been picked up. The Bronx Victory Column, a favored place for wedding pictures, is crumbling.
But it is Orchard Beach where the wear and tear most shows. This 1.1-mile engineering feat -- built mainly on landfill -- has a beach of white sand, two picnic areas and a 45-acre parking lot. On weekend days, more than 32,000 people congregate to catch some rays, eat some hot dogs and dance to Latin music -- though this year plans call for other kinds of music to be added.
The beach has not undergone basic improvements since opening in 1936. It needs more sand, and new bathrooms and recreation area that should have been finished by now are just getting underway because of problems with the first contractor. This will be followed by a $3 million first-stage refurbishing of the basic colonnade rising over the bath houses and refreshment stands. But the bathhouse, which Ms. Dockeray closed due to lack of staffing immediately upon taking her position in 1991, will remain closed.
 
Brooklyn
 
PROSPECT PARK:
 DEFINITELY NOT SECOND FIDDLE
For better than a decade, once-dreary Prospect Park has been on a roll. The Prospect Park Alliance, far from being a demure country cousin to the Central Park Conservancy, has boldly seized on flamboyant, joyous strategies to return the park to the status defined by Robert Moses, "the immediate crown jewel of Brooklyn." Among scores of other projects, the Alliance lovingly restored a turn-of-the-century carousel, and began a Halloween walk through the picturesque ravine that little children love to dread.
Both the Grand Army Plaza and Willink entrances are undergoing grand million-dollar restorations. The Lincoln Road Playground is being completely rebuilt. The refurbished zoo reopened last year.
The benefits to Park Slope and Windsor Terrace brownstone owners, among them higher property values, have been much remarked upon. But at least as important is what the park has come to mean to the poorer residents of neighborhoods like Crown Heights, Flatbush and Bedford Stuyvesant.
"Prospect Park plays a unique role for the the poor," said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society and an Alliance board member for many years. "The utilization has just been going up by leaps and bounds. You just see enormous outpourings of people who create little spaces for themselves."
They barbecue in a traditional style (now including Japanese and Korean variations, of course) that has become such a Prospect Park ritual that it has become unthinkable on the part of park bureaucrats to stop it. People play softball, soccer, volleyball, fish and dance to boom boxes on hot afternoons. On Sundays, African and Caribbean drummers gather in an eclectic symphony of pure rhythm.
As the Rollerbladers glide by, as picnickers parade toward the Long Meadow, which has been called the finest landscaped garden in America, something else is happening. It is deep and scary and ongoing. "We haven't had people managing our forests for the longest time," said Tupper W. Thomas, the administrator. "We keep postponing all the things we can't postpone."
The old virgin trees are largely gone. Their descendants -- the oaks, maples, tulip trees, which tried to carry on -- are being supplanted by mulberries and other newcomers. Erosion is intensifying.
"To take on something like this is just impossible with city money," Ms. Thomas said. Accordingly, the Alliance has made the forests its priority. In case you needed to ask, a Woodlands Ball is planned.
 
MACON PLAYGROUND:
A PEOPLE'S PLAYGROUND
This little playground in Bedford-Stuyvesant seems like a terrible place. Equipment has been broken or stolen, crack vials are visible in the dust and adults relax with beers and wine. A bathroom has been locked after becoming a haven for drugs and sex.
It is sad to think the happily playing children have nowhere else to go. But there is a gathering ray of hope on the horizon. Some neighborhood men have banded together to help the bedraggled playground at Tompkins Avenue and Macon Street.
"This is a classic New York City playground," said Julius Spiegel, the Brooklyn Parks Commissioner, pointing to the handball and basketball courts, the checkers tables and seesaws. "But kids shouldn't have to play in glass."
In 1988, a group of men in the neighborhood got together and decided to reclaim the park. They called themselves Black Men Who Give a Damn.
"For kids in the neighborhood, that's the focal point of their summer," explained James Harris Jr., an insurance company employee who lives across the street from the park and started the ball rolling. "It was time we men took matters in our own hands. If we have to live there, we wanted to make sure there was a place we wanted to live in."
Mr. Harris and his compatriots first received Parks Department permission effectively to take over the park, though basic garbage pickup and maintenance remains with the agency. They then mobilized the neighborhood for a full cleaning, and have periodically returned to scrub grafitti. They began to lock the park at night, and during days worked to exclude drug users and others they considered bad influences. "We did things the police can't," Mr. Harris said.
They also began a basketball tournament geared specifically for boys and girls who aren't athletically gifted, as well as an annual block party for everyone in the neighborhood. They raise money with "oldies but goodies" parties and other means.
"We started as simple volunteers to the park," Mr. Harris said. "What we're doing is buying stock in our children. When we get old who's going to put out the checkers for us?"
 
Queens
 
FLUSHING MEADOWS-CORONA PARK: STRUGGLING PHOENIX
Once these 1,255 acres on Flushing Bay were a vast dumping ground for ashes from the burning of garbage. In "The Great Gatsby," F. Scott Fitzgerald called it "a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens."
Then came two World's Fairs, and after the second in 1964, the park Robert Moses had pushed for three decades finally began to take shape. Today, what was once an ash pile is athletic fields, landscaped meadows, lakes, fountains, playgrounds, zoo, museums and stadiums.
But Flushing Meadows is caught in severe problems just as its dream of restoring its monuments and museums moves toward completion. It is scruffy, even dirty in some parts. The staff struggles to keep up. Popular play areas have been worn grassless, tailgaters from Shea Stadium in the park have seemingly never learned how to throw away an empty can, and many benches need to be refurbished.
Arguably, this is also the city's most cosmopolitan park in what is statistically the most cosmopolitan borough. It is possible for 86 languages to be spoken there on a busy weekend afternoon. Summertimes are one ethnic festival after another: the Colombian festival draws 300,000; the Ecuadorian, 100,000, the Korean, 100,000. There are Muslim prayer services and a dragon boat festival.
"People who don't have their own backyard use this as their own backyard," said Estelle Cooper, the park administrator. "They have somewhere to go."
Harold Sanchez began as a volunteer in the park and is now sports coordinator and field inspector. "I don't fool anybody and nobody fools me," he said by way of introduction.
Mr. Sanchez solved one of the park's biggest problems. Soccer leagues had become violently anarchic, with officials shaking down teams to the tune of more than $40,000 for the right to use fields the city supplies free. And there was another problem on the six soccer fields, where 17 leagues, some with as many as 20 teams, sometimes fitfully shared space. "People were shooting each other," he said.
Mr. Sanchez two years ago brought the teams into the regular organized leagues of New York State, providing insurance for players and spectators and opening up tournaments with teams elsewhere. The new leagues would not put up with the shakedown artists and self-styled landlords.
"Harold is an unsung hero of the Parks Department," said Arne Abramowitz, Mrs. Cooper's predecessor.
For her part, the new administrator is scrambling to make up for a halving of her staff to 47. That means only four maintenance people are available on any given day. The money the long-time Republican loyalist is able to gather from party contributors helps, but is not enough, she says.
She makes her case for more city funds with typical Queens combativeness. "We're being cut so desperately and we get less money than Manhattan does anyway," she said. DOUGLAS MARTIN
 
 
 
IF YOU WANT TO HELP
 All over the city, parks rely on volunteers and private money to stay alive. Here are some numbers to call if you want to help.
 
* To volunteer in city parks, call Sara Levine, the Parks Department's director of volunteers at (212) 360-1441/2.
* To become involved as a contributor or in other ways, call Elizabeth Carmona at the Parks Council, (212) 838-9410, ext. 230.
* To help at specific parks:
Central Park Conservancy (212) 315-0385
Riverside Park Fund (212) 870-3070
Randalls Island Sports Foundation (212) 830-7715
Prospect Park Alliance (718) 965-8951
Flushing Meadows-Corona Park Corporation
(718) 760-6565
Friends of Forest Park (718) 235-0815
Black Men Who Care, Macon Playground in Bedford-Stuyvesant (718) 467-4808.
Friends of Van Cortlandt Park (718) 430-1895
Greenbelt Foundation (718) 667-2165

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; REPAIR SERVICES PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (96%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); MARATHONS (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



38 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2128 words

HEADLINE: A Troubled Emerald Empire

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
SPRINGTIME in New York, and the parks are alive with wonders. A man sits by himself in a soft rain and looks outward at the lagoon in Pelham Bay Park. A man and a woman sit on a Central Park bench and see infinity in each other's eyes. At the Thomas Greene Playground in Brooklyn's Boerum Hill neighborhood, children play tag in the dancing sunshine.
Springtime in New York, and appearances are cruelly deceiving. For these are days of profound trouble in the city's park system -- a scuffed-emerald empire of 479 parks with 2 million trees, 15 miles of beaches, 890 playing fields, 862 playgrounds, 1,885 handball courts, 2,000 basketball courts and a Commissioner who is simultaneously new and old. 
 That Commissioner is Henry J. Stern, leprechaunishly fierce defender of all things park, returned to head the department he commanded during the administration of Edward I. Koch. And while he calls his job the best one in the world, he points to a daunting challenge. After a serious spell of fiscal trouble, the city's parks, he says, are in their worst shape since the hardest of Depression days, when the city-owned green spaces were horrifying weed beds.
"Are the parks in crisis?" Mr. Stern asked. "Yes."
This is not just the judgment of a Commissioner skillfully angling for more money, though Mr. Stern would not deny that he is just that. Pretty much everybody who knows and cares about New York's parks is similarly glum, from parks administrators to advocates to Mr. Stern's predecessor, Betsy Gotbaum, who says, "Parks seem to always get short shrift."
Which is not to say simply that everything is falling apart. This is a crisis masked by the thousands of happy ballplayers crowded on damaged, overused fields that they are further destroying with each base hit, by the fact that the undesirable species forcing out the old stalwarts in untended forests are silent and patient killers.
"When things happen incrementally around you, you don't notice it until you're dead," said Charles McKinney, the administrator of Riverside Park, who is fighting an uphill battle to save the city's dwindling elms.
But budgets have been slashed and burned and slashed again, necessitating wave upon wave of layoffs. In fact, of the five largest American cities, New York spent the least per capita on its parks, according to the Parks Council, an advocacy group. This has meant lagging maintenance, the virtual end of recreation programs, and a sense of vulnerability that comes with having fewer workers, and their eyes, on the job.
Since David N. Dinkins took office in 1990, the Parks Department's operating budget has declined from $193.5 million to an expected $140.2 million next year -- based on Mayor Giuliani's preliminary budget and assuming many employees accept a buyout now being offered.
Given that New York's park problem is essentially an economic one, the overall picture is far from uniform and far from democratic. The pain is felt most acutely in those parts of the city that lack the private money and political know-how that have brought places like Central Park and Prospect Park so vibrantly back to life in recent years.
At Pelham Bay Park, for example, budget limits mean that much of the litter washed up in the December 1992 northeaster remains washed up. At Riverside Park, especially the northern part, plumbing is falling apart, benches are in disrepair and money that would otherwise be spent on flowers goes to cleaning up after vandals. At Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, vendors illegally sell alcohol as soon as the backs of employees, a skeleton crew compared with a few years ago, are turned.
Some parks appear almost to be orphans. At Battery Park, wind-blown trash scuttles about like tumbleweeds. At High Bridge Park, a cleanup operation this week yielded hundreds of abandoned tires.
The more prosperous parks also hurt. At Prospect Park, the bustling renovation of two grand entrances happens simultaneously with the wholesale theft of trash cans and the virtual collapse of such architectural features as the little guard houses. Even Central Park has problems, though less obvious ones: the Great Lawn's drainage system needs major repairs.
But the starkest evidence of the deterioration is in the small patches of potential pleasure in the dreariest neighborhoods. It is hard to believe, but once basketball hoops had nets. And once swings and slides weren't so regularly stolen from inner-city playgrounds. At one Brooklyn playground, Bridge Park, under the Brooklyn Bridge, there are mountains of beer bottles. At another, Eleanor Roosevelt Playground, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, much of the equipment that remains doesn't work.
In these neighborhoods, parks are almost a basic need.
"I don't think middle-class and upper-class people have any conception of how important parks are for the stability of families," said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society.
Myrvin Garnett, an architect who is trying to build new parks and playgrounds in his neighborhood, East New York, added: "If people can't get out in open space, they tend to take it out on each other."
In the wake of two recent sexual assaults in Riverside Park and a reported rape in Prospect Park, parks officials and the police say that crime is no better or worse in the parks than in the city in general. But as Tupper W. Thomas, the Prospect Park administrator, said, "It's more offensive in a park because people just want to feel safer."
And who is to say the loss of much of the enforcement and ranger staff -- as well as just maintenance people, with their eyes and ears -- hasn't hurt? Without these people, parks are just "undefended urban real estate," Mr. Stern observed. "Nothing deters crime like the presence of people."
 
A SINGLE ISSUE: MONEY
 The issue is almost wholly money. Unlike crime or AIDS or homelessness -- with their amorphous mix of cause and effect -- more resources would clearly make for better parks, Mr. Stern and park advocates say. Faced with huge budget deficits, Mayor Dinkins cut only two areas more than parks, housing and mental health, according to Dean Mead, of the Citizens Budget Commission, a civic watchdog group.
Barbara Fife, who oversaw parks as a deputy mayor in the Dinkins administration, said the fundamental reason was ultimately that, in the political crucible of budget making, Mr. Dinkins was more committed to social service programs than parks.
"It didn't rate as high," she said.
But Ms. Fife, Mr. Stern, parks advocates and independent analysts can quickly recite reasons for the parks' politically weak position on the budgetary totem pole. Parks are not considered an essential service like police and fire, nor do they attract matching Federal and state dollars as do programs in, say, education. Spending levels are not governed by court orders, union pacts or specific legislation.
Another factor is that the decline of an ecosystem is not readily apparent to the average eye.
"The park is just dying, dying, dying," said Ms. Thomas, the Prospect Park administrator. "It's a slow death and that's why people don't notice it."
And the relative gentleness of park lovers is not exactly a versatile weapon in the political trenches. "Tree huggers are not going to mass on the Brooklyn Bridge," Mr. Stern said.
But Mr. Stern is hopeful that his agency will be hit no harder than others as the Giuliani administration struggles to bridge a $2.5 billion gap in the budget it will release on May 10. His hopes, he says, are grounded in Mr. Giuliani's repeated promises to improve the city's quality of life.
The Commissioner -- whose passion for parks not long ago led him to hold a funeral for a cedar tree -- has not shied away from making a political point to his boss at several joint appearances: mayors who increased parks spending have generally been re-elected. On this, he seems to have some statistical grounding in a recent survey by the Commonwealth Fund, a national foundation. Of more than 1,200 New Yorkers surveyed in all five boroughs, 62 percent favored designating parks an essential service, along with police, fire and sanitation.
But Jack Lynn, a former top Parks Department official who now advises Mr. Giuliani, cautioned, "Support is broad, but the passion isn't there. It doesn't drive people to the polls at election time."
Nobody doubts that at least some of the Dinkins administration's cuts eliminated waste from an agency with a long history of featherbedding. There was a time, for instance, when an official department driver had to drive a worker to a job site. But officials insist that they have installed cost-cutting measures once considered impossible.
Ms. Gotbaum, Mr. Dinkins's Parks Commissioner, notes, for example, that beach workers were finally persuaded to enter the machine age. As much as possible, workers were encouraged to come up with their own productivity suggestions. In Riverside Park, graffiti cleaners came up with the idea of spraying the site they plan to clean next so the chemicals can begin working.
"You have to work harder," said Bobby Hopkins, one of the cleaners. "We have to stretch ourselves."
But these measures are only stopgaps. A shortage of operating funds means capital spending takes over: New roofs are installed instead of repairing ones still fixable. What makes this self-defeating is that capital dollars are also shrinking. In 1982, the Parks Department's capital budget was $180 million; this year it is $136 million.
 
PRIVATE GREENERY
 The future may lie in people who love parks and are willing and able to volunteer time and money.
The model of public-private cooperation is the Central Park Conservancy. Now 13 years old, it has attracted gifts from 50,000 individuals and many corporations and foundations. From its early days when New York's flagship park was in such shameful shape that there was talk of giving it to Washington as a national park, the Conservancy has combed, brushed and -- most important -- financed half of Central Park's operating budget and two-thirds of its capital spending.
Accordingly, Mr. Stern talks of a two-tiered park system. By this he means sharing management with private groups, or perhaps turning management totally over to them. He emphasizes this does not mean the city can pull out of the parks game.
"If the city is in flight from its responsibilities, you can't expect private money or private time to stem the tide," the Commissioner said. He acknowledges, too, that this formula will work best in wealthier oarts of the city.
Besides Central Park, the other most-cited model is Bryant Park, where a joint project of the Public Library and local businesses was begun in 1980 and opened in 1992. Modeled after parks in Paris, it has won numerous design awards and is a lunchtime mecca for for the midtown office crowd.
It came at a price: $9 million to redo the six acres. But the operating budget of $1.6 million stands in bold contrast to what the city had spent, $250,000 a year. Had the city kept the operating responsibility for the park, that amount would have gone down as a result of the overall cuts, perhaps to around $200,000.
Daniel A. Biederman, executive director of the Bryant Park Improvment District, the group formed to revive and maintain the park, says that the quality his board demanded -- suggested by the fact that restrooms are cleaned at 10-minute intervals -- comes at a price six times what the city was willing to pay. But he insists that it is worth every penny. "It just gives a different aspect to the hard cold concrete of New York," he said.
He is working to expand a slimmed-down version of the same model to Herald Square and Greeley Square just south of it through a business improvement group he manages. In addition, he is working without pay with a Harlem neighborhood group to use a variant of the Bryant Park model to restore Marcus Garvey Park, along Fifth Avenue south of 125th Street.
From Union Square in Manhattan to Mulalley Park near Yankee Stadium to the Randalls Island playing fields, similar efforts have sprouted to bolster existing parks and create new ones. The Parks Council and other advocates see this as the start of a parks renaissance. But almost all the efforts are lightly funded, and almost all depend on a city seemingly ill-prepared to meet the challenge.
The stakes are high but simple, said Jeanless Poggi, a coordinator of a volunteer effort to refurbish Fort Washington Park and other green spaces in Washington Heights.
"Everybody living in New York is a little bit crazy," she said. "The pace, the hard surfaces, the concrete turn us into caged animals. In the parks, we find a beautiful place in ourselves."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Riverside Park, graffiti covers a stone staircase and debris littered the area. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 14); Prospect Park: Despite pastoral scenes, declining operating budgets have caused wave upon wave of layoffs, making any type of renovation in the park difficult. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); CENTRAL PARK -- The city's flagship park is also its best example of the public-private partnerships that many hope will save the parks. (Jack Manning/The New York Times); RIVERSIDE PARK -- The park by the Hudson has grown shabbier, and a bit more menacing. Still, private projects are keeping it alive. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); PELHAM BAY PARK -- The city's largest park, and one of the richest in resources, is also a park in need of help. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); FLUSHING MEADOWS -- Even as restoration nears completion, the city's most multi-ethnic park struggles to keep up. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "SPENDING: How New York Compares" shows park opening expenditures per capita in the five largest cities. (Sources: Public Space for Public Life; The Parks Council and Central Park Conservancy); "AT A GLANCE -- Parks Department: Vital Statistics" shows Parks Department employees, budget and share of city budget from 1984 to 1995. (Source: New York City Parks Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; RIVERSIDE PARK (NYC); PELHAM BAY PARK (NYC); PROSPECT PARK (NYC); FLUSHING MEADOWS-CORONA PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; REPAIR SERVICES PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); ATHLETES (69%); BASKETBALL (69%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (62%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); BEACHES (55%); 

PERSON: STERN, HENRY J (COMR); MCKINNEY, CHARLES; GOTBAUM, BETSY RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



39 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOS REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN;
New Blow to the Old Bowery . . .

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE 

 BODY:
The Salvation Army has announced that next month, it will close one of its biggest and oldest residences, a 10-story brick tenement it has run since 1913 at 225 Bowery.
Booth House II, which houses homeless and mentally ill people, is being closed down because of government regulations, pressures from legal representatives for the poor and growing economic difficulties that face even major charities. 
 Many of the shelter's 235 occupants were deeply shaken by the announcement.
"The news came like a bomb," said John Wynne, 62, a resident for 14 years. "People don't know what's going to happen to them."
The disappearance of the hotel from the Bowery, once synonymous with homelessness and drinking, would be the latest in the changes undergone by what used to be the nation's most famous skid row. Over the last four decades, the Bowery's flophouses and gin mills have been fading away. Longtime denizens died, Chinatown and gentrification nibbled at the Bowery's boundaries and growing drug use brought neighborhood protests and official pressures.
Over a hearty breakfast of cereal, eggs, pancakes, home fries or grits, or all of the above, residents of Booth House talked anxiously one day last week about the closing.
Vincent Mason, the administrator, said the residents would not be evicted and there would be interviews with each on relocation.
But like many residents, Norman Harry Pinkard Sr., 58, who came to Booth House 25 years ago because of a drinking problem, said: "I want to stay on the Bowery. I like to go to the parks and talk to people."
The concern of some neighbors like Joe and David Cohen, owners of J & D Restaurant Equipment across the way is that if the Salvation Army pulls out, residents will stay on, without care. "This could mean more panhandling or robberies," Joe Cohen said.
The Salvation Army first took title to Booth House in 1913, operating it as a bed and breakfast hotel catering to railroad and merchant marine retirees. In 1978, Booth House was licensed by the State Department of Social Services to provide care to people with mental health problems.
Things ran smoothly until 1992, when the State Office of Mental Health cut off referrals, citing lack of proper on-site mental health services, said Lieut. Col. Raymond L. Wood, divisional commander for the greater New York area. This meant a decrease in residents to 240 from 370, the "financial break-even level," Colonel Wood said.
 MARVINE HOWE

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Salvation Army has announced the closing of its shelter at 225 Bowery. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SALVATION ARMY THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALVATION ARMY THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BOWERY (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) HOMELESSNESS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); EVICTION (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); PANHANDLING (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (72%); CATERING SERVICES (69%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); 

PERSON: HOWE, MARVINE JOE COHEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



40 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOS REPORT: MIDTOWN;
Hold the Neon: One More Battle On 42d Street

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
After a decade of lawsuits, bickering and delays that have stymied the vast plan to redevelop the south end of Times Square, another snag may come as little surprise.
And that's just what has happened three months before an August 1 deadline for an "interim" development agreement for the mammoth plan to build four office towers. 
 The project, announced by city and state officials in 1984, remains years from completion. With Manhattan's office market mired in high vacancy rates, the Times Square developers, a partnership between George Klein and the Prudential Insurance Company of America, say the soonest they would begin building any of the towers is 1997.
Now, the latest roadblock is over what to do with the construction site before construction begins. While the developers have agreed to pay for repairs to existing buildings and other temporary improvements, they are balking at the state's demands that they pay for huge neon signs that would give their building site the same glaring wattage that has been lighting up the north end of Times Square since the late 1980's.
Still, amid intense negotiations, Mr. Klein indicated last week that it was unlikely the project would be derailed.
"The differences are not that great, and we'd like to get going," Mr. Klein said in an interview on Friday.
Unless the developers agree by August 1, the state can force their hand by turning over title to the 42d Street development site, on which existing buildings have already been condemned. That would make the developers legally bound to begin construction within the next six months, or walk away from a huge investment they have already made.
"Lighting and signage should not be a big issue, but for them it is," said Robecca Robertson, president of the 42d Street Development Corporation, the state agency in charge of the project.
"No way around it," she added, "we are going to have glitz on 42d Street."
Glitz is not what Mr. Klein and Prudential had hoped for when they signed on to the project in the 1980's, agreeing to reimburse the state for the $241 million it has cost to condemn existing buildings on the development sight. The developers had told potential tenants that their office towers would be as stately as Rockefeller Center.
But however strong the developers' dislike for neon, they have lost any hope of preventing it. Their new neighbor on 42d Street is the Walt Disney Company, which announced its plan in January to renovate the New Amsterdam Theater, just west of Seventh Avenue.
Nor can the developers hope for help from the Giuliani administration.
"We are finally getting somewhere on this project," said John Dyson, the Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, who has been moderating the dispute. He said the city's position, like that of the state, was that 42d Street should be developed for a mix of office space and glitter.
"It is possible to have both," he said. "Broadway, show business and bright lights will send a message around the world that New York is growing and enhancing itself.
 THOMAS J. LUECK

GRAPHIC: Photo: Snags continue in redeveloping the south end of Times Square. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (71%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (61%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (71%); WALT DISNEY CO (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LIGHTING; NEON OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J GEORGE KLEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



41 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOS REPORT: WASHINGTON HEIGHTS;
Parking Imbroglio: The Roots Remain

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
One summer night last year, in a melee touched off by double- and triple-parked cars being towed from a section of Washington Heights, a bucket of spackling was hurled from a rooftop, killing a housing police officer.
The officer's death, in a neighborhood with a history of tension abetween residents and the police, became a high-profile issue in the mayoral campaign. The challenger, Rudolph W. Giuliani, criticized the Dinkins administration's handling of the parking problems in the overcrowded neighborhood and demanded that the city crack down on "urban terrorists." 
 But now, with another summer approaching, and with more people outside, the number of double- and triple-parked cars is only increasing, limiting access for fire trucks and ambulances.
A task force established after the officer's death by former Mayor David N. Dinkins to look for long-term solutions to the problem has been disbanded. And under Mr. Giuliani's administration, officials with the Department of Transportation have yet to sit down with officers from the 34th Precinct to determine how to proceed this summer, and to decide if night towing, suspended during the winter, will resume.
Moises Perez, executive director of Alianza Dominicana, the largest social-service agency in the neighborhood, said he believed that officials were ignoring the problem because the neighborhood had remained quiet.
"What happens is that they know they can just keep coming up here and towing and towing and making money from this neighborhood," Mr. Perez said. "But the problem's not going to go away. Even if people wanted to behave, it would still not resolve the problem because there are too many cars up here for the amount of space. The city knows this."
The towing program in which the officer was killed began last May specifically to attack late-night problem areas. Another program, conducted year-round during the daytime, towed 2,569 cars from May 1993 until the beginning of October, according to the Department of Transportation.
The only action on the horizon is the possibility of a new parking garage. City Councilman Guillermo Linares recently persuaded the Board of Education to transfer the title for a lot it owned in the neighborhood to the city's Economic Development Corporation, which is now drawing up requests for a contractor to build a multilevel municipal garage on the site.
The lot, at 184th Street and Broadway, is currently leased month to month by a company that runs a rental parking lot.
But the requests for proposals to build a garage on the site will not be completed until August at the earliest, and Mr. Linares acknowledged that one parking garage would not come close to solving the problem.
"We really have to come up with a broad program that combines enforcement with a way to enhance parking for the whole area," he said. "I think the time has come to do something about this."
 RANDY KENNEDY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; PARKING; ATTACKS ON POLICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (77%); RIOTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); TERRORISM (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY RUDY GIULIANI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



42 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT BOOKS

BYLINE: By Shirley Horner 

 BODY:

 
Boarding School Life
THERE'S something about a childhood at an English boarding school for boys that makes for great memoirs. Be it George Orwell, A. N. Wilson or Evelyn Waugh, who wrote afterward that the experience put one "at home in prison," the traumas recalled are often so brutal that perhaps only through expert writing does an adult transcend them. 
 "Stand Before Your God: A Boarding School Memoir," by Paul Watkins, legitimately enters that category of the emotionally bruised. Mr. Watkins, a resident of Hightstown, attended not one but two English boarding schools -- Dragon at age 7 and Eton from 12 to 19. His highly praised and captivating book, published by Random House ($22), recalls almost every detail of his shock at being enrolled in the very class-conscious Dragon and his defensive strategy.
At night at first, feeling abandoned, he cried with his face pressed into his teddy bear so none would know. Even then his imagination was in active gear. He writes that he began to beg "the great forces of magic, good or bad -- whichever would listen -- to send me back across the water," and adds, "I offered up toys and money, then teeth and hair and fingers."
Why was he, an American, sent to these schools? In the book's second half, he explains that his Welsh-born father believed he had been denied advantages that almost automatically felt into the laps of graduates of Eton and the schools that prepared for Eton.
What makes the author of particular interest is the fact that at present he teaches writing at two independent boarding and day schools -- as writer in residence at the 130-year-old Peddie School in Hightstown and as visiting scholar at the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, founded in 1810. It seems, though, that his awareness of sadism, snobbery and sexual abuse at the English institutions would drive him far away from a role in a boarding school.
At Dragon, for example, he remembered the vulnerability of the youngest students and the taunts -- "you could be born with a name that you thought sounded fine," but then someone would change it and Codrington became Cuddlybum "until the end of time." There were beatings, hair pulling and rapping of knuckles for missed homework.
A vast gulf, he said in an interview, separates the "elitist" English boarding schools and the two "elite" coeducational schools where he teaches. The English schools only "open up a narrow corridor of opportunity and leave those who do not make it out in the cold." While there, he writes, "you had to stand before your God and commit yourself," but only later would you learn whether you had been helped or hurt by your schooling.
The ritualized, formal training of his youth left him ill adjusted for his return to the United States, he said. "And it wasn't easy getting used to being with girls after these male schools."
If the snobbery exists here too ("I don't see it"), the corporal punishment is against the law ("had I known in England that it didn't go on everywhere, I would have run away"), and he sees no sexual abuse by teacher against student ("the friendlier atmosphere creates a healthier environment").
Mr. Watkins's wife, Cathy, a sculptor, teaches art at Peddie, and should Mr. Watkins ever have a son, he said in the interview, he would send him to a boarding school in the United States because "there is nothing like separation from the family at an early age -- no matter how nurturing -- to develop a youngster's individuality."
 
History of Surgery
 "Surgery: An Illustrated History," an enlightening survey of the development of surgery from the beginnings of history, is not the first book Dr. Ira M. Rutkow has written about the field for both a general audience and a medical one. Two earlier volumes by Dr. Rutkow on surgery in the United States precede "Surgery," an oversize 550-page tome published by C. V. Mosby that sells for $99.
Dr. Rutkow writes, according to his preface, to place current learning within the context of past and present -- an interest that dates back 15 years when he began collecting data about the practice of surgery in the 19th century. Although he admits to being cautioned by colleagues that "it may be too early to quit my day job," there is no question that Dr. Rutkow, who practices hernia surgery in Freehold, finds himself drawn more and more to the profession of writing.
"I schedule my surgical practice around the hours that I write," he said in an interview. In fact, he writes four hours a day, he said. His next work will be a history of surgery in the United States.
"Surgery" opens with a chapter on primitive surgery and lists the earliest example as trephination, boring open the skull -- "and the patient survived."
The work, rich in colored reproductions of related artwork, traverses ancient civilizations, the classical world, the Far East and the Middle Ages. Its main focus for modern times -- since the Renaissance -- is outside the United States because here surgery did not establish the landmarks it accomplished in Europe until the early years of the 20th century.
"New Jersey lagged far behind other states until recently," Dr. Rutkow said in the interview, because "we did not have a medical school until the 1950's." Thus, he added, the best New Jersey students went to schools out of state.
Still, his book points out the presence of two noted 19th-century surgeons: Dr. Joseph Pancoast of Burlington County, distinguished for surgery on the bladder (1859) and the nerves (1872), and Dr. Beriah Watson of Jersey City, instrumental in founding St. Francis and Christ Hospitals in that city.
Dr. Rutkow's prognosis for surgery? With an awareness of "socioeconomic pressures" -- he holds a doctorate in health care economics -- he writes that surgeons, while remaining humanitarian, must realize they can practice in a "businesslike manner," a strong requirement now facing them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: STAND BEFORE YOUR GOD (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); 

PERSON: HORNER, SHIRLEY; WATKINS, PAUL PAUL WATKINS (78%); IRA M RUTKOW (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



43 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 12; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Teachers Ready to Receive Environmental Training

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

DATELINE: BEDFORD HILLS

 BODY:
WITH Earth Day recently past, it's not surprising that environmental issues and concerns remain in many people's thoughts. But when the celebrations and special events have ended, it is also not surprising that environmental awareness tends to recede.
To insure that environmental concerns are observed on more than one day a year, the Environmental Partnership has begun the Teacher's Institute for Sustainable Development, which will be held on the campus of Sarah Lawrence this August. 
 The Environmental Partnership, which is an alliance among Sarah Lawrence College, the city of Yonkers, the United Nations Environmental Program and the Westchester Land Trust, a nonprofit environmental organization based in Bedford Hills, was created two years ago as a way to apply the United Nations Conference Earth Summit Agenda to local communities.
This 10-day teacher-training institute, which was awarded a $70,000 grant from the Dwight D. Eisenhower Leadership Development Program of the United States Education Department, is targeted to middle school science and social studies teachers from Yonkers and southern Westchester school districts, with the intention of heightening environmental sensitivities in their students.
 
Discussion and Field Work
 "The idea is to reach the students through their teachers," said Louis McCagg, president of the Westchester Land Trust. "These preteen-agers in sixth, seventh and eighth grades are at the most impressionable age. The overall concept is to provide the teachers with good, solid material and throw it up to them as to how to use it in their classroom. The idea is to approach what they already teach with a new perspective."
The program, which will be offered at no cost to the 20 participating middle school teachers, will be taught by Sarah Lawrence faculty members and will also include eight Sarah Lawrence students. It is designed to feature a combination of classroom discussion and field work at sewage-treatment plants, the Hudson waterfront and recycling centers. The program will extend beyond the 10-day course to continue through a series of workshops during the school year.
"We will be assisting them with field trips and projects throughout the year," said Charlotte A. Price, who is on the economics faculty members at Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers. "In giving this science institute to middle school teachers, we hope to convey some of the enthusiasm and excitement our faculty have for environmental issues. This is also an opportunity for our students to help in the community, and see if they are interested in working with middle school students."
The Environmental Partnership was especially concerned with coordinating such a project with Yonkers. "One problem is that you don't usually think of Yonkers as 'the environment,' " said Lee Ellman, planning director for the Yonkers Planning Department. "But there are resources out there. Education will go farther if we train 20 middle school teachers who will train their students. It's a terrific first project."
For Ronald J. Schick, district coordinator of science for the Yonkers public schools, the project offers an opportunity to use the city as an open-air laboratory for the city's students. "Sustained development translates to looking at the Yonkers environment and using it as a teaching tool," Mr. Schick said. "The program will look at economic and environmental concepts and tie them together. What is exciting is that it doesn't isolate the environment at the door of science."
The focus of such environmental awareness and education won't be elitist, Mr. McCagg said. "Environmental racism is something I'm concerned about. When you place sewage-treatment plants in minority areas, the residents may not be informed as to what the implications are. You have to bring about the education of the inner cities, and that is why we are primarily looking for teachers from southern Westchester cities, such as Yonkers, White Plains, Mount Vernon and New Rochelle."
Those interested in more information about the program should contact Alice Bamberger, the project coordinator, at 241-6346.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP; SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE; UNITED NATIONS (UN); WESTCHESTER LAND TRUST ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP (64%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME (57%); UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP; SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE; UNITED NATIONS (UN); WESTCHESTER LAND TRUST UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME (57%); UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EARTH DAY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (67%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, MERRI SARAH LAWRENCE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



44 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 1, 1994,

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 2190 words

HEADLINE: Master of Restraint

BYLINE: By John T. Noonan Jr.; John T. Noonan Jr., a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, is the author of "Persons and Masks of the Law" and "Bribes."

 BODY:

LEARNED HAND
The Man and the Judge.
By Gerald Gunther.
Illustrated. 818 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $35. 
 Learned Hand. It is a name that that belongs with John Marshall, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Louis Brandeis and Benjamin Cardozo: among the eminences of the American judiciary. Every law student encounters this curious name, and every student discovers the correspondence of the name to the deeply erudite judge who was a superb craftsman of the law. One comes to know the judge through his opinions and through his essays (such as those collected by Irving Dilliard in "The Spirit of Liberty"). But from the writing one knows nothing of the inner tensions, the family relations or even the political path taken by the man. Gerald Gunther's masterly study "Learned Hand: The Man and the Judge" gives us the life of the man integrated with the life of the judge. It is the fullest, most sensitive, most penetrating of judicial biographies. I do not know its equal.
Hand's inner tensions came, at least in part, from his heritage. His father, Samuel, a lawyer who was briefly a judge of the New York Court of Appeals, died when his son was 14; for the rest of his life he was haunted by his father's idealized image. To an extent even his odd name was a source of anxiety. When he was born in 1872, in Albany, his parents adopted the practice of his mother's family: using family names as first names. His mother's maiden name was Lydia Coit Learned, and her son became Billings Learned Hand. Years later, Hand said that his parents had thought of calling him Billings Peck Learned Hand, but, deciding that "was going pretty strong . . . they left out the Peck." At home he was often called simply "B," and his most intimate friends continued to use that designation the rest of his life. His parents mostly called him Learned, but it was only in college that he dropped Billings altogether, even from his signature.
His mother encouraged the boy's idealization of his father and added her own incessant worrying about her dutiful and guilt-ridden son. She was a Calvinistic Congregationalist who transmitted to her son what he called "a constant anxiety complex," exacerbated by his own rejection of the Christian faith he had been moved to express at his father's death.
At Harvard, Learned Hand found the skeptical George Santayana his most sympathetic mentor, and on occasion in his writing he can be seen adapting Santayana's metaphorical interpretation of religion. But Hand was never entirely at ease; he sprinkled his essays with biblical phrases and paraphrases and on at least two public occasions made remarkably reverent references to Christ. He remained a doubter, troubled by his doubts.
Those doubts -- of himself as much as of any creed -- play into what is the most dramatic tale in Mr. Gunther's book: Hand's relationship with his wife. When he was 29 years old and an Albany bachelor largely inexperienced with women, he met Frances Fincke on a summer holiday at Murray Bay, Quebec, in 1901. She was Bryn Mawr '97, determined to be independent and doubtful that she "should ever be willing to be the doormat of a man of genius -- (for all my life)."
She kept him waiting for a year before she said yes and they kissed for the first time. They married three months later, in December 1902. They had three daughters in five years: Mary Deshon Hand was born in 1905, Frances in 1907, Constance in 1909. Learned was delighted with his life; Frances was his "Kitten," his "Kitty," his "Dearest Puss." But by 1908 she was capable of writing him, "Tell me . . . that you still hold me in affectionate remembrance and by the way what arrangement is made by the Mt. Kisco Telephone Co. about our telephone in winter."
In 1910 the Hands began to summer in Cornish, N.H., Frances's choice, a nine-hour train ride from New York. In Cornish they became friends with Louis Dow, a professor of French at Dartmouth. In 1913, after his wife entered a mental hospital, Dow began a bachelor's existence, and his friendship with the Hands deepened. By 1914, Constance Hand was spending several weeks at his home in Hanover. Meanwhile, Frances was extending her summer vacation, frequently visiting Cornish in the fall and sometimes making winter trips as well. Louis Dow became a house guest, whether Learned Hand was present or not, and when he was not there Louis sat in his place at the head of the table. Frances went for long walks with Dow, rode with him, picnicked with him, motored with him, read French with him -- all of which she reported to her husband in New York.
By 1918 Hand, left alone in New York during the summer, was asking whether they could "correct" their long separations: "Can we? I wonder. Shall we? I think not." "I don't know if I can take this," he said to a friend. But take it he did. In the 1930's Frances Hand and Louis Dow traveled several times to Europe together. Their relationship ceased only with Dow's death in 1944.
This whole story, worthy of Henry James, is delicately told by Mr. Gunther, who was once a law clerk to Hand and then to Chief Justice Earl Warren, and who now teaches law at Stanford University. He also delicately tells the story of Frances Hand's intense friendship with her college classmate Mildred Minturn. He never goes beyond the evidence -- in this case letters of Dow and the Hands, supplemented by interviews with people who knew them all. As with the relation of Henry Adams to Elizabeth Cameron, of Justice Holmes to Lady Clare Castletown, of Clementine Churchill to Terence Philip, the outsider can only speculate about its physical nature (I believe it was governed by the code expressed in "The Age of Innocence" by Edith Wharton); its emotional character is relatively clear. Hand once affirmed his likeness to the cartoon figure Caspar Milquetoast. It is a surprising comparison for Hand the judge; it is not so far off for Hand the husband. Yet the Hands stayed married 59 years, and the later years were marked by mutual affection.
The patience, fortitude and self-restraint so evident in this relationship also characterized Hand's work as a judge. With patience and fortitude he dealt with literally thousands of cases, beginning as a Federal district judge for the Southern District of New York in 1909 and continuing in 1922 as a judge of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. By the time of his death in 1961 at the age of 89 he had served longer than any Federal judge in history.
Longevity was, perhaps, a necessary but not a sufficient cause for his fame. Hand made his contribution to the law in the only way a judge can, by the careful consideration of the facts before him, a thoughtful review of relevant precedent and a reasoned explanation of why he reached the result he did. He performed these elementary and essential tasks with a brio that came from a conviction that this kind of job was worth doing, and that he could do it well by exacting scrutiny, penetrating analysis and effective expression. The perfect balance of these three elements in Hand's opinions is their most distinctive mark.
The craftsman was committed to neither a conservative nor a liberal agenda, but to a creed of judicial restraint he had learned at Harvard Law School from J. B. Thayer and had reinforced by his own experience of democracy. Judicial restraint was the watchword of liberals when conservatives dominated the courts; it continued to be the watchword of judges like Hand and Felix Frankfurter even after liberals were in judicial ascendancy. The result is that Hand's opinions do not wholly please either left or right. To illustrate: In United States v. Dennis (1950) he upheld the conviction for conspiracy of the American leaders of the Communist Party; in United States v. Coplon (1950), because the prosecution failed to show that illegal wiretaps did not lead to the evidence against a Justice Department employee, Judith Coplon, he reversed her conviction for Communist espionage. Political correctness was not his concern. He sought to produce the right decision.
But what makes a judge right? It is not approval by a higher court. In one of Hand's worst opinions he maintained in a dissent that the Government could hold indefinitely on Ellis Island an excluded alien whom no other country would have; the Supreme Court, 5 to 4, bought Hand's position. One of his most sensitive opinions invalidated the drafting of Irwin Levy, a student for the Orthodox rabbinate in a Brooklyn seminary, because the draft board had improperly delegated its authority to a theological advisory panel made up of Conservative and Reform Jews; in another case involving a student from the same seminary, the Supreme Court unanimously rejected Hand's reasoning.
Rightness in the end is the fit of the result to the facts, compiled with the possibility of generalizing the result. No formula will produce it. No judge is right every time. The legal profession has always felt that Hand was right most of the time in matters of Federal criminal law, in the commercial areas of antitrust, copyright, patents and trademark, and in the common law of torts. He excelled in statutory interpretation in which the perceptive judge, as Hand put it, "can peer into the purpose beyond its expression and bring to fruition that which lay only in flower." In a 1917 case involving the magazine The Masses, Hand as a Federal district judge fashioned a historic formula for the protection of free speech.
Why, the question is always asked, was such a judge not promoted to the Supreme Court of the United States? The answer is that appointment to that court is an essentially political process. Having begun his practice of law in Albany, Hand moved to New York City and joined a Wall Street firm in 1902. The next year he met an older lawyer, Charles C. Burlingham, who immediately responded to Hand's eloquence and quickness of mind. Burlingham's friendship was crucial. In Mr. Gunther's words, the older man "loved pulling strings," and he did that with spectacular success for 50 years. It was eventually Burlingham's influence more than anything else, Mr. Gunther says, that secured Hand's appointment to the district court by President William Howard Taft in 1909 (he also says that, several years later, it was Burlingham who engineered Benjamin Cardozo's appointment to the Federal bench).
BUT three years later Hand publicly supported Theodore Roosevelt, when Roosevelt bolted from Taft and the Republican Party. He even ran for the New York Court of Appeals in 1913 in order to strengthen Roosevelt's Bull Moose ticket in the state. As a result he was dead with Taft, who remained the chief voice on Republican nominations to the Supreme Court until 1930. In 1942, Frankfurter urged Franklin D. Roosevelt to appoint Hand, then 70, to the Court, but Roosevelt, trapped by his own earlier rhetoric against the Court when he called the Justices "nine old men," instead appointed Wiley B. Rutledge, who was 48. Hand outlived Rutledge by 12 years. He wrote some of his best opinions in his 70's.
To write good judicial biography requires a lawyer's grasp of the law, a historian's exactness and circumspection, and a biographer's empathy and balance. Mr. Gunther has brought this unusual combination of talents to his task. He brings himself on the scene only once, describing how Hand used his law clerks in the appeals court not to write his opinions (these he wrote himself) but to critique them vigorously. Here is part of his account of Hand's 1953 dissent in United States v. Remington, the case of a Government economist who had been convicted of perjury when he denied being a Communist:
"After seven weeks, he handed his most recent effort to me. 'Now look at this one; see if this one holds water any better.' I studied the new draft for several hours and returned to his desk. Hand looked up eagerly: 'Well, will it wash?' I responded that portions of the opinion now seemed reasonably airtight, but there were still weaknesses in other sections.
"Hand looked at me darkly, pain and annoyance clouding his face. He heaved a deep sigh, then picked up a small paperweight on his desk and threw it in my general direction, missing me by only a narrow margin. 'Damn,' he shouted, 'I can't go on forever like this! Thirteen drafts and it's still not satisfactory? Son, I get paid to decide cases. At some point, I have to get off the fence and turn out an opinion. Enough!'
"I had never heard Hand speak in such anger. I turned pale and retreated, shaken, to my desk in the adjacent office. I flung my head down on the desk and tried to regain my composure. After a minute or so, I felt a hand gently tapping the back of my head. Judge Hand, in his stocking feet, had silently left his desk, come into my office and hoisted himself to a sitting position on my desk. I raised my face and looked up into his bemused countenance. 'Now, now,' he gently consoled, 'you can't take it that way! It's all part of the job! Don't take it so hard -- you did your job; I have to do mine.' "
Hand did do his job. Mr. Gunther has done his.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Learned Hand in his chambers in 1958. (SAM FALK/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LEARNED HAND: THE MAN AND THE JUDGE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BILLINGS LEARNED HAND (97%); BILLINGS PECK LEARNED HAND (57%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; COURTS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (84%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); APPEALS COURTS (66%); 

PERSON: NOONAN, JOHN T JR (JUDGE); GUNTHER, GERALD (PROF); HAND, LEARNED (1872-1961) MARY DESHON HAND (86%); FRANCES FINCKE (80%); LOUIS DOW (71%); GERALD GUNTHER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994



45 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: MAJOR FLAW CITED IN CIGARETTE DATA

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1

 BODY:
Smokers of cigarettes labeled low in tar and nicotine may be getting more of those substances than they think, Federal Trade Commission officials and experts in smoking now agree. And they attribute the problem to testing that has not kept up with the changes in cigarette design over the last 20 years.
Since 1971, when the results of the tests were first printed in cigarette advertising and on packaging, cigarettes labeled low in tar and nicotine have taken over the market, now accounting for 60 percent of the cigarettes sold in this country. 
 National polls conducted by the Gallup organization have found that smokers believe that the cigarettes labeled "light" are less hazardous and will give them less tar and nicotine. But evidence has accumulated that the measurements, which are carried out by tobacco company laboratories under the supervision of the F.T.C., bear little or no relation to how much nicotine and tar smokers actually get from smoking, because knowingly or unknowingly smokers often draw deeper or puff harder.
"The commission has been aware for a while that the test has problems regarding the actual intake that consumers will get," Judith D. Wilkenfeld, assistant director in the F.T.C.'s Division of Advertising Practices, said in a telephone interview.
"We know that consumers do not smoke in exactly the same manner as the machine" used in testing, she said. "So the tests will not predict the actual human consumption."
Ms. Wilkenfeld said the commission was looking at alternatives to the tar and nicotine tests, and added that the pressure to make a decision had recently increased.
The commission's cigarette tests are done by machines that hold the cigarette and draw air through it in two-second puffs, repeating the puffs once every minute until the cigarette burns to the filter.
But cigarettes now include several features that make the machine tests meaningless, said Dr. Jack E. Henningfield, chief of clinical pharmacology research at the National Institutes on Drug Abuse.
For example, to dilute the smoke, a majority of cigarettes now have nearly invisible holes in their filter paper, or in the cigarette paper near the filter.
 
People vs. Machines
 When the smoking machine draws on a cigarette, a large amount of air is drawn in, and this dilutes the smoke getting to the measuring device, making today's cigarettes appear to contain less tar and nicotine.
But smokers do not handle the cigarettes the same way machines do. They find the diluted smoke milder, and to make up for the "lighter" taste, or less satisfying amount of nicotine, they puff more or draw deeper, pulling in more total smoke, so that the result for the smoker is the same amount, or more, of nicotine and tar.
In addition, the tiny filtration holes are often blocked by smokers with their lips or hands, thus cutting off the air that would have diluted the smoke.
Experts outside the F.T.C. said that the options for the commission included abandoning the test because it was misleading; trying to establish a better test, or shifting the testing responsibility to another agency better equipped to carry out the tests, like the Food and Drug Administration or the National Institutes on Standards and Technology, formerly the Bureau of Standards.
 
Same Amount of Tar
 Scientific studies over recent years have shown that smokers get about the same amount of nicotine no matter what kind of cigarette. For example, when scientists look at the blood levels of nicotine in smokers, they cannot tell the smokers of light cigarettes from those of full-flavored cigarettes, as high tar and nicotine cigarettes are called by tobacco companies. The same is true of tar.
But tar levels are far lower than they were 40 years ago. At that time cigarettes had amounts of tar as high as 30 to 40 milligrams per cigarette. Now, virtually all brands are in the 5 to 15 milligram range. Nicotine levels have remained relatively stable since 1952.
"Smokers can get whatever they want in the way of nicotine," Dr. Henningfield said. "A smoker can draw 3 milligrams of nicotine out of a cigarette that is rated as a 1 milligram yield by the F.T.C. test." Cigarettes contain a total of 7 to 9 milligrams of nicotine in the entire cigarette. Smokers draw out about 1 milligram of nicotine regardless of the type of cigarette smoked, with a range of intake from 0.5 milligrams to 3 milligrams.
"There is simply no information to indicate that today's so-called lower tar and nicotine cigarette gives any health benefit," Matthew L. Meyers, a lawyer for the Coalition on Smoking or Health, an anti-smoking group representing the American Heart Association, American Lung Association and American Cancer Society, said in a telephone interview. He questioned perpetuating a system that "falsely implies smokers should use cigarettes with lower ratings, raising major health concerns."
Mr. Meyers added, "The F.T.C. method is so flawed that it raises a serious question whether the method causes more harm than good." For example, he said, a smoker may buy a "low-nicotine" cigarette, then consciously or unconsciously smoke more cigarettes or draw deeper to get enough nicotine to satisfy the smoker. But the smoker is getting not only more nicotine but more tar as well, which may well be higher than what the smoker would get from regular cigarettes.
Two years ago, the coalition filed a petition with the F.T.C. to consider changing the commission's test method, or dropping the results from advertising, because they may be misleading. But until recently, action on the petition had not got the staff near to a recommendation. The pressure has now been turned up as members of Congress have begun to call the agency to ask why a faulty test remains in place and potentially misleading information continues to be allowed in advertising.
Mr. Meyers said that the F.T.C. and others had acted in good faith in trying to establish the testing program initially, but that the commission could be criticized both for sticking to the test for years after it became clear that the test did not match the way people smoke and for failing to explain the limits of the test in light of what we know today.
Critics of the tobacco industry suggest that the manufacturers have put holes in the cigarettes over the years to give better-looking results on the smoking machines and thus enticing smokers to their light brands. The companies deny this, saying that smokers are asking for lighter cigarettes and that they are trying to meet those demands.
Dr. Neal L. Benowitz, a professor of medicine at the University of California at San Francisco and an expert on smoking, said that giving consumers accurate data on how much tar and nicotine a cigarette delivered would be a major step forward in reducing smoking in the United States.
"Eighty percent of smokers say they want to quit," Dr. Benowitz said, and most smokers try lighter cigarettes but are "now unable to get a lighter cigarette even when they want one, because they don't have the information."
Dr. Benowitz suggested the giving of accurate data as the first major step in Federal regulation of cigarettes like drugs, a topic now of much interest in Congress and the regulatory agencies since the Food and Drug Administration announced earlier this year its intention to regulate cigarettes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; TESTS AND TESTING; LABELING AND LABELS; CONSUMER PROTECTION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TAR; NICOTINE SMOKING (92%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TOBACCO MFG (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PHARMACOLOGY (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



46 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Less Strategic Now, Grenada Is to Lose American Embassy

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1

 BODY:
Little more than a decade after the United States invaded Grenada, ousting a left-wing Government that Ronald Reagan said was turning the tiny Caribbean island into an outpost of Fidel Castro's Cuba, the Clinton Administration plans to close its Embassy there to save money.
With the end of the cold war, the Administration has decided that the island, which recently resumed diplomatic relations with Cuba, is of little strategic importance. 
 "This action is to be taken only in response to budgetary pressures and in no way reflects on Grenadian-American relations or on the commitment of the United States Government to our friends in the region," the State Department said when it announced the closing recently.
The island's dwindling significance today is in marked contrast to how it was described on Oct. 25, 1983, when Mr. Reagan sent 7,000 troops to end political violence and, he said, to rescue American students at St. George's University Medical School.
The State Department told Congress last month of its intention to shut the modest Embassy compound and transfer its functions to the Embassy in Barbados, 150 miles to the northeast. The Embassy in Barbados had responsibility for Grenada until just after the 1983 invasion.
State Department officials said on Friday that closing the Embassy in Grenada, as well as the one in Antigua and a regional office of the Agency for International Development in Barbados, is part of an effort to shift resources to Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
Congress, which can overrule the State Department, has until May 13 to decide if it wants to keep the Embassies open. Grenadian officials are lobbying members of Congress and the Administration for a reprieve.
"Because of the special relationship that exists between our two countries, Grenadians would feel terribly let down if the American Embassy were to close its doors in St. George's," Prime Minister Nicholas A. Braithwaite wrote to President Clinton on April 22.
 
The Lobbying Begins
 Representative Donald M. Payne, a New Jersey Democrat who is head of the Congressional Black Caucus Task Force on the Caribbean, has also asked Mr. Clinton to reconsider the decision.
State Department officials are waiting to see if any groundswell emerges in Congress that will stay their hand. "You know how these things go," said a State Department official. "It ain't over till it's over."
Mr. Payne's office said 1,500 Americans are in Grenada at any given time: tourists, business executives, retirees -- and about 500 students at the medical school, which reopened after the invasion.
A lush, hilly island 90 miles north of Venezuela, Grenada has been declining in importance as a diplomatic post. There are only two Americans assigned to the Embassy.
State Department budget-cutters considered closing the Embassy last year but decided that to do so in the year marking the 10th anniversary of an invasion intended to "liberate" Grenada from Communism would have been poor public relations.
"It would have looked odd to close it within a few years of the operation," said State Department official who spoke on condition of anonymity. "But it was becoming harder to justify keeping it open. It's really not an active post in terms of any of the normal criteria: political and economic reporting, narcotics or consular affairs."
 
19 Americans Died
 The invasion in 1983 led to the deaths of 19 American soldiers and sailors, 110 Grenadian militia and 71 Cubans, many of whom were armed construction workers with no formal military training.
Mr. Reagan explained the invasion of the 133-square-mile island, which has a population of 85,000, by saying that Cuba was turning the country into an outpost of Soviet expansionism and that an airstrip was being built that could be used by Russian warplanes. A month ago, on April 4, Mr. Braithwaite's Government announced it was re-establishing diplomatic relations with Cuba, which were broken at the time of the United States invasion.
Mr. Reagan used the success of the invasion -- the troops secured the island in two days -- to proclaim the primacy of United States fighting forces, whose image and morale had been battered by the defeat in Vietnam and by the disastrous attempt to rescue American hostages in Iran three years earlier. The Pentagon awarded 9,802 decorations after the invasion, including 813 Bronze Stars.
"Our days of weakness are over," Mr. Reagan said, alluding to the invasion. "Our military forces are standing tall."
But declassified Defense Department documents later showed that the invasion suffered from poor planning and a lack of equipment. At one point, because ground troops and the Navy's shipboard command had incompatible radios, an Army officer had to use his personal credit card to telephone his office in North Carolina to coordinate Naval air support.
The documents also noted that the medical students were not in danger.

GRAPHIC: Map of Grenada showing location of St. George's. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GRENADA (95%); BARBADOS (94%); CUBA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: SAINT GEORGE'S, GRENADA (73%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GRENADA; UNITED STATES; BARBADOS; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); GRENADA (95%); BARBADOS (94%); CUBA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); SAINT GEORGE'S, GRENADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); LOBBYING (89%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); POLITICS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); CAUCUSES (68%); EXECUTIVES (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLMES, STEVEN A RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (72%); DONALD M PAYNE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



47 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Christopher Gets Syrian Response to Israeli Peace Plan

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, May 1

 BODY:
After meeting with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said today that peace talks between Syria and Israel had reached a "new, more substantive phase" and that Mr. Assad had presented new ideas in response to Israel's recent peace plan.
Mr. Christopher declined to describe the details of the Syrian response. But American officials appeared pleased that Mr. Assad had paid serious attention to the Israeli proposal, which Mr. Christopher presented to him in seven hours of talks this weekend. 
 The Israeli plan calls for Israel to withdraw from the Golan Heights over several years, in return for Syrian recognition of Israel and the signing of a peace accord.
Calling the talks with Mr. Assad "very serious and substantive," Mr. Christopher said at a news conference: "We have entered a new, more substantive phase of the negotiations. But it is clear there is a good deal of work to be done."
[After the talks between Mr. Christopher and President Assad, the Syrian Foreign Minister, Farouk Sharaa, rejected the offer for a phased withdrawal and reiterated Syria's longstanding demand for a total withdrawal.]
 
Meeting With Rabin Next
 The Israeli plan and Mr. Christopher's visit seek to end the deadlock in the Syria-Israel peace talks. Mr. Christopher flew to Israel tonight to meet on Monday with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin to describe the Syrian ideas. In an encouraging note, a senior official traveling with Mr. Christopher said, "They are discussing the full range of issues that have to be discussed."
One of Mr. Christopher's goals on his 10-day trip to the Middle East was to obtain firm dates to resume peace talks in Washington between Israel and Syria, Jordan and Lebanon. He said tonight that no dates had been set, adding that he needed to confer with Russia, which is co-sponsoring the talks, before setting a date.
One area in which Mr. Christopher reported progress was in his effort to persuade Mr. Assad to allow a high-level American official to examine human rights in Syria. Mr. Christopher said that it would be desirable for John Shattuck, the Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights, to visit Syria, and that he had received some encouraging responses that such a visit might be arranged.
The stalemate in the Syria-Israel peace talks results from each side's wanting the other to take the first big step. For security reasons, Israel has refused to pull out of the Golan Heights, which it captured in 1967 and annexed in 1981, until Syria signs a peace agreement. Syria opposes a peace deal until Israel unilaterally withdraws from the Golan Heights.
The plan put together by Mr. Rabin seeks a comprehensive deal in which Israel would withdraw in phases from the heights in perhaps eight years. In return, Syria would establish diplomatic relations with Israel, sign a peace agreement and end its economic boycott of Israel.
Since Syria used to shell northern Israel from the Golan Heights, Israel is proposing security measures as part of the package. It is calling for demilitarization of the heights and also an international force of peacekeepers to serve as a buffer.
Neither Mr. Assad nor any other Syrian official made the sort of public, unmistakably positive response to the Israeli plan that Israel officials were hoping for. Israeli officials say that when Mr. Rabin met on Friday in Tel Aviv with Mr. Christopher, the Israeli leader said he was disappointed that Israel had not received any confidence-building measures from Syria after he had outlined a bold, politically risky peace plan.
There was a flurry of statements from Syrian officials in the news media today that welcomed progress toward peace but reiterated Damascus's demands, sometimes in a slightly tougher formulation than before.
Mr. Rabin has been subjected to severe fire from the Israeli right for saying he was willing to dismantle settlements in the Golan Heights in exchange for peace with Syria.
Some American officials say Mr. Assad is not inclined to make many concessions, since he believes that he has made many recent gestures to Washington, among them eradicating some poppy cultivation in the Bekaa region of Lebanon, closing two terrorist camps in that country and allowing an Arab member of the Israeli Parliament to visit Syria.
In the view of some Middle East commentators, Mr. Assad wants normalized relations with the United States even more than he wants peace with Israel and the return of the Golan Heights.
That is why American officials expected him to ask for some sizable carrots from the United States before he moves substantially forward in the talks with Israel. Among them is having Washington remove Syria from the American list of nations that sponsor terrorism and the list of nations that have failed to do enough to suppress drug trafficking.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Israeli settlers from the Golan Heights blocking the Bnot Yaakov Bridge between Israel proper and the Heights yesterday to protest Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's proposal for returning the region to Syria. President Hafez al-Assad of Syria has issued a counterproposal. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SYRIA (99%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JORDAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SYRIA; GOLAN HEIGHTS; SYRIA (99%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JORDAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US PEACE PROCESS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) MAYO SHATTUCK (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



48 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Call for Pacific Harmony Meets a Chorus of Criticism From Asians

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, May 1

 BODY:
When President Clinton first described his vision of a new "Pacific community" last summer, in which the United States would engage Asia more vigorously and creatively than at any time since World War II, most of the region's leaders embraced the idea as a long-overdue shift from what they saw as Washington's Eurocentric view of the world.
But in recent months the enthusiastic talk of harmony, which reached a crescendo when Mr. Clinton gathered Asian leaders at a first-ever summit meeting in Seattle, has quickly given way to a broad chorus of criticism. On topics as diverse as trade policy with Japan, human rights and the possible caning of an American teen-ager in Singapore, leaders from Canberra to Tokyo are voicing similar critiques. They say Washington has been arrogant, that the "community" it envisions is built in America's image rather than in Asia's, and that it is chiefly interested in imposing its own rules.
 
Driven by Three Goals
 Many of the criticisms are self- interested, and some come from countries that insist the region needs a stabilizing American military presence, but reject Washington's political influence. But a result is that many Administration policies have been subtly undercut by some of its closest Asian allies. 
 "There has been a very sharp change of tone in recent months," a senior South Korean official who deals regularly with high-level Clinton Administration officials said recently. "There is a sense that America's approach to Asia has been very high-handed, too much preaching about human rights and too much of a Mickey Kantor approach on trade that may score a few points in the short term, but hurt the U.S. role in the Pacific for a long time."
Since the Seattle meeting, Mr. Clinton's Asian policy has been driven by three goals: opening Japan's markets, brandishing trade threats to force China to respect human rights and insisting that North Korea will never become a nuclear power. But its policies on Japan and China have been under daily attack in the region, one reason the Administration is being forced to rethink its strategy. A widespread reluctance to confront North Korea has created a particularly tense challenge for Washington at a moment when the North seems only days away from trying to harvest additional fuel from its reactors.
The most surprising opposition has come on trade. Almost every Pacific country professes sympathy with Mr. Clinton's complaints about Tokyo's trade surpluses and its slowness in opening its markets.
 
Australian Premier Opposed

 But in recent weeks country after country -- from Australia to Malaysia to South Korea -- has attacked the American insistence on "numerical targets" or "quantitative indicators" of American market penetration in Japan.
Some join the Japanese in complaining that such agreements undermine free market forces. But the real argument is that political pressure to buy American goods will make it harder for the rest of Asia to sell its wares to the Japanese.
Among the most outspoken critics of the Administration's approach is Australia's Prime Minister, Paul Keating, who has accused Washington of using a "heavy-headed sledgehammer number to crack the nut."
His Foreign Minister, Gareth Evans, said recently that he feared that Australian-made auto parts would be squeezed out of the Japanese market. South Koreans followed with the same complaint about their computer chips. European officials have joined in, saying their goods are suffering in Japan because of "Buy American" campaigns.
"They are right," a senior Japanese trade official said the other day, clearly enjoying the fact that Mr. Clinton has won few converts. "If we have a choice between buying an American product and one from elsewhere, political correctness says we should choose America." (In fact, that is not always the case: Five years after the United States pressed Japan to open its markets to imported beef, Australia sells more beef there than the United States does.)
But the recent evidence suggests that the Clinton Administration may be backing away, at least temporarily, from its high-pressure approach. A few months ago Mr. Kantor, the United States Trade Representative, dismissed arguments that Washington should not press Japan's fragile Government on opening its markets, saying nothing would get done for years if Washington waited for political stability to return to Tokyo.
Now, warned by the American Embassy in Tokyo that the new, minority Government of Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata is hardly in a position to negotiate, Administration officials are all but giving up hope of progress before the Group of Seven meeting this summer in Naples.
 
China Policy Under Attack
 Similarly, the Administration's strategy of linking preferential trade status to human rights in China is under broad attack. Since Secretary of State Warren Christopher traveled to Beijing to deliver a warning six weeks ago, leaders of Japan and South Korea have delivered very different messages.
Before his resignation last month, Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa told the Chinese just what they wanted to hear: That Western concepts of human rights should not be "blindly applied" in Asia. South Korea's President, Kim Young Sam, never even raised the issue when he went there a few weeks later.
Last month, even as the Administration struggled to back away from its threat to revoke China's most-favored-nation status without appearing to abandon its human rights initiative, Singapore's former Prime Minister, Lee Kuan Yew, warned that Mr. Clinton was engaging in a "fruitless endeavor" in trying to pressure China. He warned that "the United States will find itself all alone in the Pacific" on the issue.
 
Singapore's Views Supported
 Mr. Lee's complaints about the imposition of American values on Asian countries are now familiar, and they have been reprised by the arguments over the caning sentence handed down by a Singapore court against an American teen-ager convicted of vandalism. The fundamental argument -- that the rights of the society come first, ahead of individual rights -- strikes a chord in many Asian countries. What has changed in recent months is that other Asian leaders have warmed to Mr. Lee's argument, often in the service of their own economic interests.
Japanese business executives, for example, often portray Japan as China's more reliable partner, saying their own country would never mix business and politics. That is a grim truth for American diplomats in Asia, who point out that Japan holds considerable sway as China's biggest provider of foreign aid, and now its second-largest trading partner.
"This is an issue that the Japanese see a lot differently than we do, and that's been true for some time," Walter F. Mondale, the American Ambassador to Japan, said recently.
Even Australia has spoken out against linking preferential trade benefits for China with human rights. While stressing the need to press "universal human rights" Mr. Evans said last month that denying the trade benefits to China "would have a very adverse economic impact on the region as a whole, particularly Hong Kong, with flow-on effects for Australia."
In Hong Kong the economic considerations have clearly won out, despite concern that China is moving to quell dissent before regaining the city in 1997. In Washington last week, Hong Kong's chief secretary, Anson Chan, told Vice President Al Gore and other officials that the territory's prosperity would be devastated by the withdrawal of trade privileges for China.
"We do not believe trade should be linked with human rights," she said, trying to speed the argument for separating the issues, which is already taking hold in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (56%); 

COMPANY: SECRETARIAT OF THE PACIFIC COMMUNITY (84%); SECRETARIAT OF THE PACIFIC COMMUNITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECRETARIAT OF THE PACIFIC COMMUNITY (84%); SECRETARIAT OF THE PACIFIC COMMUNITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (61%); ARMED FORCES (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



49 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
As Government investigators and lawyers unravel the fraud scandal at Prudential Securities, a question arises: Did senior executives ignore warnings 14 years ago about potential high-level corruption in the firm's partnership division, which is now at the heart of the biggest retail brokerage scandal in history? [Page D1.]
Cigarettes labeled low in tar and nicotine may produce more of those substances than was thought, F.T.C. officials say. Evidence indicates that the measurements carried out by tobacco company laboratories under F.T.C. supervision bear little relationship to how much nicotine and tar smokers inhale. [A1.] 
 
Essentially in recognition that Bankers Trust New York's business resembles a Wall Street securities firm's more than a traditional bank's, Standard & Poor's said it was considering a lowering of the bank's credit rating. [D1.]
Two pension funds for employees of companies controlled by Robert Maxwell have filed suit seeking to recover more than $94 million from Goldman, Sachs, which handled several transactions for Mr. Maxwell in the months before his death. [D4.]
 
International
Japan assailed a recent United States report assessing what Washington calls an array of unfair Japanese trading practices. The reply suggests that reducing Japan's trade surplus may be no easier under the new Government than under the old one. [D1.]
Russian arms manufacturers are trying to reorient toward markets for commercial products. But it seems likely that only a handful of military enterprises can change into makers of quality products at competitive prices. [D1.]
Several billion in aid to the Russian oil industry is at risk because Moscow will not exempt the loans from new taxes. [D3.]
 
The Economy
Though the recently suspended strike by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters disrupted commerce for about three weeks, trucking executives and transportation experts said its effects were likely to last for years -- mostly on the union and those companies relying on their membership. [D1.]
 
The Media Business
Marshall Loeb, one of the most visible and influential editors in the magazine industry during a 38-year tenure at Time Inc., is retiring as managing editor of Fortune magazine. He will be succeeded by Walter Kiechel 3d. [D7.]
Charles T. Brumback, the iron-fisted chairman of the Tribune Company and the new chairman of the Newspaper Association of America, may be the hardest-boiled leader the newspaper industry has seen in some time. William Glaberson: Press. [D7.]
A British television mini-series that began as a writer's off-the-cuff invention at a lunch in London has become an international success story that has reached into three other media. [D7.]
Hoping to hit NBC where it hurts -- in the "sweep" ratings period -- a union representing technical employees and news writers is urging viewers to tune out the network's programs. [D7.]
Miller Brewing has ended an unusual account review by withdrawing a new brand, Lite Ice, from Leo Burnett and awarding it to Backer Spielvogel Bates. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D8.]
CBS is in talks with several leading advertisers to start a pro football league as a rival to the National Football League. [C9.]
 
Today's Columns
The inventors of a water-purifying system designed for NASA's long space missions say their technology can be used in remote areas on Earth to make drinking water safe without chlorine. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
Investors are familiar with brand-name drug companies and are learning about companies that sell lower-priced generics. But some analysts are more interested in pharmaceutical companies that sell both types of drugs. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); TIME INC (81%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (57%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CORRUPTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WRITERS (85%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (76%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); SMOKING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (60%); 

PERSON: ROBERT IAN CHARLES MAXWELL (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



50 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
A Shaper of Magazines Retires

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY 

 BODY:
Marshall Loeb, one of the most visible and influential editors in the magazine industry during his 38-year tenure at Time Inc., is to retire as managing editor of Fortune magazine after eight years in the job, the magazine will announce today.
Mr. Loeb will turn 65, the mandatory retirement age for Time Inc.'s managing editors, at the end of the month. He will become Fortune's editor at large and write a new column for the magazine. 
 He will be succeeded on May 20 by Walter Kiechel 3d, an executive editor at Fortune who joined the magazine in 1977 as a reporter-researcher. Mr. Kiechel, who is 47, will be the first managing editor in 40 years to be promoted from within the ranks of the magazine.
 
Similar Visions
 Mr. Loeb and Mr. Kiechel have worked together for several years and, by both their accounts, have similar visions for the magazine.
During Mr. Loeb's tenure, the "big story" that had always been Fortune's forte was made more explicit. In addition to standard fare about the economy, management and corporate strategy, Mr. Loeb introduced articles on executive life and on social problems that affect the business world. Homelessness and the plight of public schools were among the recurring themes.
He also expanded the use of graphs, lists and tables to illustrate major articles.
The change at Fortune comes as competition from television, newspapers and other business magazines is stronger than ever.
For instance, Biz, a monthly that focuses on small businesses, was started in March with an initial circulation of 500,000, as a joint venture between American City Business Journals Inc. and Dow Jones & Company. And the two monthlies that entered the field in 1992 have grown rapidly: Worth, which was started by Fidelity Investments, now has a circulation of more than 300,000, and Smart Money, started by Dow Jones and the Hearst Corporation, has a circulation of 449,000.
But the three magazines that continue to dominate are Business Week, Fortune and Forbes, despite their distinctly different thrusts. Business Week emphasizes news. Forbes, published every two weeks, focuses on how companies are managed and the people who manage them. And Fortune, also published every two weeks, is known for its in-depth articles.
The competition among the three for circulation and advertising is perhaps the fiercest in the magazine industry. "The last 10 years have been sort of nasty in the ways that Forbes and Fortune have gone at each other, with each trashing the other whenever they can," said Steve Klein, media director and partner at Kirshenbaum & Bond, an ad agency.
In North America, Business Week is the circulation leader at 883,718, followed by Fortune at 786,619 and Forbes at 770,008, according to the most recent figures from the Audit Bureau of Circulations. Fortune and Business Week also have international circulations -- Fortune at 136,753 and Business Week at 116,857.
Last year, Fortune saw a 10 percent increase in advertising pages, while Forbes had a gain of 1 percent and Business Week a decline of 2 percent. Through this March, Fortune's ad pages were up 8 percent, compared with the first quarter of 1993. Business Week was up 16 percent and Forbes was down 9 percent.
While Fortune officials decline to provide figures, they say the magazine's revenues are strong and profits are up. In 1993, circulation profits reached a record high, officials said.
Fortune has also prospered editorially under Mr. Loeb, who was previously managing editor of Money, a Time Inc. publication that emphasizes personal finance.
"I think Marshall really has a sense of the pulse of a magazine's readers, almost like no one I know," said Norman Pearlstine, a former executive editor of The Wall Street Journal and the president of Friday Holdings, a media investment group. "If you think of Money and Fortune, you see that he clearly positioned each of those publications just wonderfully."
A hurdle for Fortune was its image as the publication for the white-collar work force of Fortune 500 companies. With that audience shrinking, the trick was not only to keep the audience but also to build it.
Steven Swarz, editor of Smart Money, sees Fortune as a strong service publication for executives. "I think Fortune became must reading for people aspiring to higher corporate jobs and for people who wanted to know what those jobs were like," he said.
 
No Big Changes
 Mr. Kiechel said that while he was not contemplating a redesign or other big changes at the magazine, he would probably "rethink" some departments. He talked about adding more case studies and extracting lessons from them.
Long regarded as the heir apparent, Mr. Kiechel has overseen much of the magazine's coverage of managerial issues and, for 10 years, has written a column called Office Hours. He has also written many cover articles, including last year's "How We Will Work in the Year 2000."
He says the 1990's will be a defining time in economic history, comparable in importance to the industrial revolution in the 19th century.
"We are in a historic transformation of our economy," he said in an interview. "The core infrastructure is shifting from old industries like the auto industry to computers, telecommunications and the entertainment business. The old blue collar-white collar distinctions are going. The new workers are professional and technical workers who are going to be the dominant people in the work force."
The changes, of course, present new challenges to a business magazine. Mr. Kiechel even held out the possibility that the magazine might have to redefine its landmark Fortune 500 industrial list.
 
Continuing Themes
 Mr. Loeb said he would write about "forward-looking ideas" in his new column. He is also working on a book on personal finance and will continue to travel and give speeches around the world.
With his cheerful personality and relentless curiosity, Mr. Loeb has long had the air of a little boy who can't believe he is so lucky as to live the life he does. Brought up on Chicago's West Side, he served as a foreign correspondent in postwar Germany, became a reporter for The St. Louis Globe-Democrat and joined Time magazine in 1956, where he wrote or edited more than 130 cover articles in 24 years. He became managing editor of Money in 1980.
"He has been a major factor not only in business journalism but in the entire magazine industry," said Stephen B. Shepard, editor in chief of Business Week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marshall Loeb, left, is retiring as managing editor of Fortune magazine. He is to be succeeded by Walter Kiechel 3d. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (81%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORTUNE (MAGAZINE) TIME INC (95%); FORBES INC (85%); HEARST CORP (82%); DOW JONES & CO INC (81%); AMERICAN CITY BUSINESS JOURNALS INC (66%); FMR CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORTUNE (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); BONDS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE; LOEB, MARSHALL; KIECHEL, WALTER 3D WALTER KIECHEL (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



51 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Resentment Zone;
Officials' Courtship of Yankees Stirs Anger in the Bronx

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY 

 BODY:
Ted Davidson, public-housing resident, and George M. Steinbrenner 3d, public-stadium resident: two peas in a pod.
Both have been in the South Bronx a long time and are wary of the neighborhood. Both threaten to leave. "I'd move to Jersey," Mr. Davidson says, though he probably never will. And maybe his neighbor, Mr. Steinbrenner, six long blocks away, never will, either. 
 But the big difference Mr. Davidson sees between him and Mr. Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, is this: "Every time Steinbrenner threatens to move they give him more money to stay here. But we don't have anything here."
The longstanding tension between the residents of South Bronx and the Yankees is tightening again. The Giuliani administration is proposing to renovate the ballpark at a cost of about $275 million, while at the same time threatening to cancel construction a few blocks away of a $250 million police academy, envisioned as an economic sparkplug for the struggling neighborhood.
Money for the academy at 153d Street and Park Avenue was not in the financial plan that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani issued in February. Police officials have long argued that the existing academy near Gramercy Park in Manhattan is inadequate and needs to be replaced. But a Giuliani administration official, citing budget constraints, said on Saturday that it was unlikely money for the new building would be in the city's proposed capital budget to be released this week.
The distinction between the city's treatment of the stadium and the neighborhoods around it was drawn even more sharply two weeks ago. Mr. Giuliani and other city leaders announced that the city's application for a $100 million Federal grant to create an "empowerment zone" centered in Harlem would include a narrow swath of the South Bronx encompassing Yankee Stadium but not the adjacent poverty-stricken communities of Melrose and Mott Haven.
"How do you include the richest franchise in sports and not include, a few blocks away, the poorest of the poor?" said Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President. While Mr. Ferrer commended the Mayor for including a piece of the Bronx in the Federal application, he said he would work to have other poor neighborhoods included also.
 
Help for Everybody
 Joe Lhota, the chief of staff to Deputy Mayor John S. Dyson, said the administration hoped the Federal aid would both help the people in the stadium area and enhance the chances of the Yankees' remaining in the Bronx.
"The history of the Bronx in the 20th century and the history of the Yankees are intertwined," he said, adding that the administration, along with state officials, was determined to keep the team there.
Yankee Stadium has long skewed politics and money in the South Bronx. Well before Mr. Giuliani, a Yankee fan since childhood, the team found favor among politicians devoted to the lore of the Bronx Bombers and fearful of the disgrace their leaving would spread.
When the Yankees threatened to leave New York City in the 1970's, the cash-strapped city bought the stadium and renovated it. The construction bill went from $24 million to $100 million, and to save money the neighborhood-improvement component of the project was cut.
Now, 20 years later, officials and residents in the Bronx fear they are reliving that era. "We want to avoid that mistake, but the city seems to be running headlong into it," Mr. Ferrer said. "You can't just rebuild the stadium, you have to fortify the neighborhood."
Although many of the South Bronx neighborhoods have improved in the last 20 years, Maritza Owens, who organizes prenatal health programs in Mott Haven, said gunfire is a common nighttime sound near her home on the Grand Concourse, within easy walking distance of Borough Hall, Yankee Stadium and the police academy site. On a recent afternoon when the Yankees were at home, a homeless man was sprawled out asleep in Joyce Kilmer Park opposite Borough Hall on a rise from which fans in the stadium's crowded upper deck could be seen.
 
'Community Is Suffering'
 "How can you spend so much time and energy on Yankee Stadium when outside a whole community is suffering?" said Ms. Owens, standing near the police academy site, a sunken lot littered with rusted car parts and discarded appliances and furniture.
The proposed police academy, once expected to bring hundreds of new jobs and thousands of police officers and cadets to the area, was seen by Bronx leaders as a way to add spirit, security and economic heft to the South Bronx's attempt to erase its national reputation as a charred symbol of urban catastrophe.
The Police Department has been making the case for a new academy for eight years, and two mayors have advocated putting it in the South Bronx, although budget constraints delayed its progress in the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins. It became the spark for the Bronx Center Plan, a strategy for complementing 20 years of new housing in the area with jobs and educational opportunity.
The plan called for the construction of theme high schools, one connected with the police academy to prepare students for careers in law enforcement and another, near Yankee Stadium, for students interested in working in the sports business. It is unclear if those schools will be built.
Although there is no direct connection between the decision on the police academy and the plan to renovate Yankee Stadium, Bronx leaders see them as a message being sent by City Hall.
Richard Kahane, president of the Urban Assembly planning group and chairman of the Bronx Center Plan, said that the police academy would be a tremendous economic boon to the neighborhood, while Yankee Stadium's effects are limited.
 
Loyalties Questioned
 "This is a major generator of confidence and faith and a major generator of economic development in terms of jobs and a major generator of economic opportunity," he said. "Yankee Stadium is an important civic symbol, but it is none of the other things."
Mr. Kahane said Mr. Giuliani had a stronger political loyalty to the Yankees than to the neighborhoods around it. "Mr. Giuliani never ran on revitalizing this community," he said. "He did run on keeping the Yankees here."
But the Mayor and his aides hold fast to their contention that the decision on the academy is all about money.
"People arguing for this have to get real," Mr. Giuliani said in March. "The city simply can't afford it. This is not a question of what people want, but where we're going to get the money from."
The Mayor has softened his stance somewhat recently, saying he would consider other cuts in capital budget projects for the Bronx proposed by Mr. Ferrer to help pay for the police academy. But last week, Deputy Mayor Peter J. Powers said finding the money for the police academy was "a tough case."
Instead, the administration plans a $69.8 million renovation of the current police academy. But that plan would simply overhaul the building's systems and do nothing to alleviate overcrowding, said Joseph Wuensch, the deputy police commissioner for management and budget.
He said that the academy was designed in the 1950's to hold classes of 600 cadets, but that classes now number 2,200 cadets, causing a shortage of everything from lockers and classrooms to showers and auditorium space.
Nonetheless, the Giuliani administration, which has strongly supported the Police Department and has protected it from other budget cuts, believes the needs of the police can be met without spending the money for a new academy, Mr. Powers said.
 
'Worth Every Nickel'
 By contrast, with Mr. Steinbrenner questioning the city's resolve to provide a safer, more lucrative and fan-friendly stadium, money seems no object in its effort to keep the Yankees.
"We don't know what it will cost," Mr. Dyson, the Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development, said when negotiations with the Yankees began in February. "It will be a lot of money but worth every nickel."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the Giuliani administration proposing to renovate Yankee Stadium while at the same time threatening to cancel plans for a new police academy, tensions have stirred again between residents of the South Bronx and the Yankees. A homeless man napped on a park bench near Yankee Stadium. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)(pg. B7)
 
Map of the Bronx showing location of Yankee Stadium. (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC); POLICE ACADEMY (NYC) NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC); POLICE ACADEMY (NYC) NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC); POLICE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION POLICE FORCES (91%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); CITIES (87%); MAYORS (87%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); CITY LIFE (69%); SPORTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PURDY, MATTHEW RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



52 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2496 words

HEADLINE: Foundations Are Finding Wealth Is a Problem, Too

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH 

 BODY:
The nation's foundations are discovering prosperity has its perils.
As a group, their financial health has never been better. Their ranks keep growing: 35,765 foundations in 1993, with 11,000 of them created since 1980. A bullish stock market raised their combined assets to an all-time high of $177 billion last year. 
 And there is the glittering prospect that fresh converts to charity will appear in the coming decade, when economists predict trillions of dollars will pass from Americans now over 50 to their children and grandchildren -- the biggest intergenerational transfer of wealth in history.
But the foundations' very visible well-being has stirred uneasiness within their ranks, even as they come together for the 45th annual conference of the Council on Foundations, opening today in Manhattan.
 
Concern Over Image
 Some foundation leaders say they worry about their public image, objecting that they are portrayed as hoarding wealth while the country struggles under the burden of its social needs. They also express fear that a budget-driven Congress, in its search for revenues, could start pruning the lists of tax-exempt organizations; besides foundations, these include 25 categories of nonprofit groups as varied as pension funds and cemetery associations, farmers' cooperatives and professional football leagues.
Foundations in fact represent only 17 percent of all nonprofit organizations. Foundations are nonprofit organizations that give away money, and most of them are set up by individuals to or groups such as family members or businesses.
"Foundations must try harder to merit public trust or risk increased regulation by governments," the council's president, James A. Joseph, warned its 1,300 members recently. The question is not whether foundations do good. It is whether they should do more, by drawing down endowments if necessary and even spending themselves out of existence, as a few philanthropies have done.
By law, to retain their tax-exempt status, foundations are required to pay out the equivalent of at least 5 percent of their assets each year. Their combined giving last year exceeded $9 billion, spread out among thousands of nonprofit groups active in education, health and welfare services, the arts, environmental protection and foreign assistance.
"The notion that foundations are just sitting on money is frivolous and ignores all the good they do," said John E. Craig, executive vice president of the 75-year-old Commonwealth Fund, which is known for innovations in health-care policy.
 
Available Capital
 He is one of many foundation leaders who are quick to point out that their available capital for all these activities is modest compared with what governments are spending. "Even if all foundations were to take all their combined assets and blow them all in one year, the total would produce only a 9 percent increase in government and private spending for social welfare, education, cultural purposes and the environment," he said. "This would leave nothing for next year and the next year."
Many of the larger foundations say that preserving their endowments requires them to earn at least 10 to 12 percent on their investments to offset inflation and to cover the required 5 percent payout and an additional 1 to 2 percent excise tax set by Congress.
In years when the market soars and assets grow, foundations can increase their giving. But they have learned that they must prepare for the inevitable years when markets sour and they must dip into capital to meet their commitments. The Ford Foundation's assets of $3.7 billion melted to $1.7 billion over three years in the early 1970's. By 1992 they had rebounded to almost $6.5 billion.
By protecting their assets, foundations argue, they can continue to serve as testing grounds for innovative ideas. A successful project in training welfare mothers for jobs,for example, can have an influence on shaping government policy.
And President Clinton, meeting recently with leaders of 200 nonprofit organizations, praised a Carnegie Corporation analysis on the needs of very young children, saying the foundation offered his administration coherent recommendations for action.
 
'Thinking and Worrying'
 For foundations, the present climate of disquiet can be useful, said Peter C. Goldmark Jr., president of the Rockefeller Foundation.
"The foundation world is in a yeasty and creative period; its members are thinking and worrying," he said, arguing that these are cynical times when no organization is immune from scrutiny, including hospitals, universities and religious groups. "Like all American institutions, foundations are learning to give and receive criticism thoughtfully."
As bestowers of largess, foundations, in fact, are not likely to hear much critics, certainly not from the nonprofits who need their grants.
An exception is Pablo S. Eisenberg, executive director of the Center for Community Change in Washington, a nonprofit group supported by foundations. Assailing foundations as elitist, he said that while they have "added women and minority members to their governing boards, they have yet to appoint teachers, union members or community spokesmen."
"Their double standard," he said, "makes it tough for grass-roots community groups to get financial support while they gladly fund a third-rate museum or ballet."
Philanthropy is getting increased attention these days from research centers at universities. More evidence of the interest: researchers and grant seekers alike are using nearly 200 affiliated libraries in urban and rural communities that supply foundation data -- the Foundation Center at 79 Fifth Avenue in Manhattan drew 30,000 visitors last year.
Except for once-a-year messages in annual reports, foundation administrators seem inclined to operate quietly. "There aren't any publicly recognized role models like Andrew Carnegie who are articulating the value of philanthropy in today's world," said Dr. Elizabeth T. Boris, director of the Aspen Institute's Nonprofit Research Fund. She added that philanthropic leadership would be even more necessary to attract some of the $8 trillion that baby boomers will inherit over the next two decades.
 
Judging by the Record
 Franklin A. Thomas, president of the Ford Foundation, likes to say the foundation "should be judged on its record." That record, including creation of public television programming, production centers and satellite transmission, as well as widening community revitalization efforts, reflects Ford's national and international activities and a smaller but growing involvement in New York.
Ford, like Rockefeller in decades past, considered spending itself out of existence but its trustees concluded that it was more prudent to leave future generations a legacy, Mr. Thomas said. Among the major foundations, he said, there is a trend toward increasing collaboration and openness. "We have a sense we're learning from each other, without losing our identities."
To pay for this year's three-day meeting, 120 local foundations contributed $300,000 for events that will include a reception at the Metropolitan Museum of Art as well as bus trips to see neighborhood preservation efforts in Harlem and an employment training center and bilingual school in the South Bronx.
For the first time, a share of the money donated for hospitality will be put aside for distribution to local nonprofit groups.
"New York is a great laboratory for philanthropy but the sheer dimensions discourage outside foundations from working here," said Lorie A. Slutsky, president of the New York Community Trust. "We don't want to hide the city's problems but want foundations to see hopeful experiments, opportunities to work here in the city and models to take home."
The New York Community Trust, one of hundreds of community foundations around the country, serves as an administrator of 1,100 charitable funds, investing and distributing income from almost $1 billion in assets.
Many are multimillion-dollar funds, but there are smaller efforts like the Theresa E. Bernholz Fund, created 69 years ago by Rosebel G. Schiff to honor an inspiring school principal at Public School 9 in Manhattan. Mrs. Schiff left $1,000 asking that the income each year go to a single deserving student. This year, because the endowment has prospered, four pupils will share the Bernholz prize, each getting $50.
"Now that," Ms. Slutsky said, "is an endowment."
 
FOUNDATIONS
The Biggest Givers
 
 
Ford Foundation
 1992 grants: $264 million
 President: Franklin A. Thomas
 New York-based private foundation . . . nation's largest by assets, with about $6.8 billion . . . established in 1936 by Henry and Edsel Ford . . . supporter of programs domestically and internationally to combat urban and rural poverty through community development . . . major contributor to low and moderate-income housing in United States, education efforts and leadership training among minorities . . . staff of 220 headed by Franklin A. Thomas, formerly New York City Deputy Police Commissioner and president of Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation.

 W. K. Kellogg Foundation
 1992 grants: $173 million
 Chief executive: Russell G. Mawby
 Based in Battle Creek, Mich. . . . established by the cereal developer in 1930 with declared purpose of "helping people to help themselves" . . . philanthropic support expanded from local concerns to include health and education activities and improvement of agriculture and rural life in Third World countries . . . nationally supports programs in childhood and higher education, youth and leadership training, health services, voluntarism . . . Russell G. Mawby, chief executive since 1970, has announced intention to retire when a successor is named.

 Pew Charitable Trusts
 1992 grants: $144 million
 President and chief executive: Rebecca W. Rimel
 Based in Philadelphia . . . a collection of seven individual foundations established between 1948 and 1979 by the sons and daughters of Joseph N. Pew, founder of the Sun Oil Company . . . initially Pew interests focused on Philadelphia but moved into national and then international field, supporting aid to emerging democratic institutions in Eastern Europe . . . current national interests include support for schools, the arts, research, environmental protection and training of urban ministers . . . Rebecca W. Rimel, trained as a surgical nurse, was named president and chief executive on Jan. 1.

 John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation
 1992 grants: $137 million
 President: Adele Simmons
 Headquarters in Chicago . . . based on bequest of its founder, who amassed fortune from real estate holdings and insurance company . . . best known for its no-strings gifts to talented individuals popularly known as its "genius" program . . . conducts far-ranging activity in United States, especially in Chicago area, where it supports education reform and housing . . . Adele Simmons, president since 1989, was formerly president of Hampshire College in Hampshire, Mass.

 Lilly Endowment
 1992 grants: $119 million
 Chairman and president: Thomas M. Lofton
 Based in Indianapolis . . . established in 1937 by J. K. Lilly and his two sons, J. K. Lilly Jr., and Eli Lilly, through gifts of stock from pharmaceutical business, then valued at $280,000 . . . major activities continue to be directed to city and state . . . principally supports education and community development including housing, and for religious organizations . . . assets valued last year at $2.8 billion, slightly below 1992, down from previous high of $3.9 billion, reflecting declines in the pharmaceutical field . . . Thomas M. Lofton, became chairman in 1991 and president in 1992.

 Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
 1992 grants: $103 million
 President: Dr. Steven A. Schroeder
 Based in Princeton, N.J. . . . established in 1936 by founder of Johnson & Johnson, the health and medical care conglomerate, with company stock . . . programs focus on improving access to health care, combatting alcohol, tobacco and drug abuse, improving assistance to chronically ill and helping to contain health care costs . . . assets dipped from from $3.7 billion in 1992 to $3.4 billion last year as pharmaceutical stocks declined . . . headed since 1990 by Dr. Steven A. Schroeder, formerly with Department of Internal Medicine of University of California at San Francisco.

 New York Community Trust
 1992 grants: $101 million
 President: Lorie A. Slutsky
 One of nation's oldest community foundations . . . distributed $150.6 million last year . . . assists programs that emphasize children, youth and families, environmental protection, community development, and support of the arts . . . was first foundation in 1983 to give grants for research and assistance to people with AIDS . . . selection of 5,959 grants to nonprofit groups is made by 11-member distribution committee appointed by civic authorities including the mayor, and a committee of bank trustees . . . Lorie A. Slutsky, foundation's executive vice president, became president in 1990.

 Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
 1992 grants: $96 million
 President: Dr. William G. Bowen
 Based in Manhattan . . . founded in 1940 as Avalon Foundation and merged in 1954 with Old Dominion Foundation . . . adopted Mellon name in 1969 . . . its grants support higher education, cultural affairs including museums and the arts, population activities, conservation and immigration studies . . . Dr. William G. Bowen, formerly president of Princeton University, became foundation's president in 1987.

 Rockefeller Foundation
 1992 grants: $93 million
 President: Peter C. Goldmark Jr.
 Based in Manhattan . . . one of the country's oldest private foundations, endowed by John D. Rockefeller and chartered in 1913 . . . major work abroad is in helping developing countries to increase crop yields, improve health and family planing services and train leaders for sound environment activities-one program promotes female education in Africa . . . nationally, supports school programs, particularly aiding the poor . . . Peter C. Goldmark Jr., who was elected president in 1988, was a senior vice president in charge of five Eastern newspapers at the Times Mirror Company.

 DeWitt Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund
 1992 grants: $72 million
 Chairman: George V. Grune
 Based in Manhattan . . . created in 1965 by founder of Reader's Digest Association . . . assets mainly from company stock but operates independently . . . focuses on improving education, particularly from kindergarten through 12th grade . . . supports school restructuring, training and recruiting of teachers and also of leaders of youth groups providing after-school activities . . . George V. Grune has been chairman since 1984, but day-to-day operations are directed by Christine DeVita, president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS (83%); COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS (83%); COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION); FOUNDATIONS; TAX EXEMPTIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY FOUNDATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: TELTSCH, KATHLEEN CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



53 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Legislators Toss Insults, But Can't Pass a Budget

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 1

 BODY:
It is frequently said that one reason the State Legislature is late in adopting a state budget -- it is now a month overdue -- is that no one has been hurt by the delay. The Legislature has kept the wheels of government greased, and state colleges, prisons and health-care services continue to operate as usual.
But the impasse has begun to cause some people pain, and their numbers are growing. School boards are preparing to ask voters to approve local property tax increases because they do not know how much state aid they will receive. Mayors are in the same bind as they present budget proposals to municipal councils. And scores of nonprofit organizations that depend on state grants are seeking bank loans to cover payrolls. 
 "This is blatant arrogance," said Mayor Shawn D. Hogan of Hornell, a city of 10,000 that is 60 miles southwest of Rochester. "People are sick and tired of this. And not just local government leaders, but also John Q. Public."
Yet legislative leaders are no closer to an agreement than they were last month. And today negotiations fell to an acrimonious low as the Assembly's Democratic Speaker vowed to pass a plan that is virtually certain to be rejected by the Republicans who control the Senate.
As early as Tuesday, the Assembly will begin passing budget bills based on a compromise plan released by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo last week, said the Speaker, Sheldon Silver of Manhattan. The plan splits the differences between the two houses over state aid to schools and tax cuts.
Mr. Silver's move is something of a toothless tactic, since even many Democrats do not like Mr. Cuomo's proposal. More important, a budget accord is impossible without the assent of Senate Republicans.
But the threat indicates just how deep the stalemate has become. And it exemplifies a familiar Statehouse script in which one house passes meaningless legislation when real progress is unattainable, then accuses the other of inaction and obstinacy.
So it was today, as Mr. Silver charged, as he has in the past, that the Senate Republicans are holding up the budget to embarrass Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat who is seeking his fourth term this November.
"I have to think they have another agenda, that they don't want to give the Governor a budget because the Governor is the one who will pay in November," he said in an interview.
 
A One-House Bill?
 But even Mr. Cuomo rejected that notion, saying, "I wouldn't share his description of the Republican's motivations." And though Mr. Silver had praised Mr. Cuomo's compromise plan as a "useful blueprint" for an Assembly budget bill, Mr. Cuomo said he would rather reach a compromise with both houses than see his proposal memorialized in one.
Rounding out an afternoon of recriminations and ad hominem attacks, the leader of the Senate's Republican majority, Ralph J. Marino of Oyster Bay, accused Mr. Silver of being rigid, uncompromising and determined to win political points "to establish himself as new Speaker."
The dispute over the $33 billion budget for the fiscal year that began April 1 is ostensibly about splitting up an anticipated budget surplus of $1.5 billion. Two issues in particular have created roadblocks: how to allocate $410 million in tax cuts, most for businesses, and how to divide $400 million in additional aid to schools.
 
Splitting a Surplus
 The Senate has proposed reducing or eliminating several business taxes, including a 15 percent surcharge on corporate taxes, over the next two years. But Mr. Silver contends the Senate plan would worsen anticipated future budget gaps, and he has called for phasing in the tax cuts more slowly.
On school aid, Mr. Silver has insisted that New York City receive the biggest share of additional money because the city has 37 percent of the state's students but receives less than 35 percent of state school aid.
But Mr. Marino argues that Mr. Silver's plan would reduce aid to needy rural districts upstate, most of them Republican strongholds.
Mr. Cuomo's proposal, which has been criticized by lawmakers from both parties, would give all school districts at least a 3.5 percent increase in aid. But it would give additional money to growing districts, which would include New York City. The compromise plan also calls for spreading out many of the Senate's business tax cuts over four years instead of two.
The Legislature has insured that state agencies can continue operating by passing the portion of the budget that pays state workers' salaries. But it has not passed the portion that allocates grants to local governments, school districts and nonprofit organizations that provide social services.
 
Tax Increases Pending
 With little chance that a budget will be in place, voters will decide the fates of 155 school budgets on Tuesday. Dozens of those districts are facing property tax increases; but in some cases, tax increases might have been reduced or avoided if the state had granted larger-than-anticipated increases in aid, school officials said.
Hundreds of mayors must also seek approval of proposed budgets from municipal councils. Many are facing budget gaps that they do not know how to fill because they have not been told how much state assistance they will receive.
"It causes everybody a lot of anxiety that we are going to announce a budget when we won't know what our numbers are," said Mayor Anthony M. Masiello of Buffalo, who plans to announce a tax increase and layoffs this week to help close a $34 million deficit.
Officials with nonprofit organizations say dozens of groups that have contracts with the state to provide social services will begin suffering cash-flow problems this week because they have not been reimbursed in a month. Those groups provide services to a wide range of the needy, including the elderly, unemployed, mentally retarded and blind.
Kenneth H. Cowdery, executive director for a Buffalo-based service organization called the Clarkson Center, said he expects to seek a $45,000 bank loan this week to cover his payroll. To pay for the interest on that loan, his organization must seek additional grants and donations because the state will not cover it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) BUDGETS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); TAX LAW (75%); APPROVALS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); INTERVIEWS (64%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; SILVER, SHELDON (ASSEMBLYMAN) SHELDON SILVER (93%); MARIO M CUOMO (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



54 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Close Race To Succeed A Senator From Ohio

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PARMA, Ohio, April 28

 BODY:
Joel Hyatt, who is running to replace his father-in-law, Howard M. Metzenbaum, in the Senate, worked his way through a shopping center, shaking hands in the final days before Tuesday's primary election.
The Democratic entrepreneur, who founded a national chain of low-cost legal clinics, repeatedly introduced himself, but he is so well known from his years promoting Hyatt Legal Services on television that most people seem to know him already. 
 But after he greeted Harry Cudilo, a 70-year-old retired accountant, Mr. Cudilo looked bemused. "I'm voting for Boyle," Mr. Cudilo said flatly of Mr. Hyatt's chief Democratic rival, Mary Boyle, as Mr. Hyatt walked away. "She's not as rich as he is."
Score one for Mrs. Boyle and her latest television assault, which has suddenly given shape to this down-to-the-wire election with the clarity of a bumper sticker: "The Senate doesn't need any more millionaire lawyers," she says to the camera. "What it needs is more moms."
 
Race Closely Watched
 The Senate race here, a state that has long served as a microcosm for national politics, is particularly significant. Ohio has a near balance of Republicans and Democrats. It also has a mix of urban and rural areas and an economic standing near the national average. Moreover, the race is being closely watched in Washington as one of a handful that together could imperil the Democrats' majority this fall.
Like voters in other states, people in Ohio are anxious about crime and health care. They express a deep cynicism toward Washington and a profound disaffection from government, and have approved term limits for their elected officials.
With so few issues dividing them in their respective primaries, the Democratic and Republican Senate candidates are trying to distinguish themselves by claiming to be the most ordinary candidate.
The "Mom versus Millionaire" advertisement, which is being broadcast statewide, deliberately echoes the successful 1992 Senate campaign of Patty Murray in Washington State, who converted a legislator's dismisal of her as "just a mom in tennis shoes" into a winning campaign slogan. Mrs. Boyle, the mother of four and a popular three-term Cayahoga County Commissioner has sought advice from Senator Murray.
Also on the Democratic side is Ralph Applegate, a business consultant who barely registers in the polls.
 
A Republican Doctor
 Among the Republican candidates is Dr. Bernadine Healy, a cardiologist who is a former director of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. At a recent debate she said voters often ask her why a doctor would run for the Senate. "Washington is sick," Dr. Healy said she replied. "It needs a doctor."
Later in an interview, Dr. Healy, who has raised over $2 million, more money than anyone else in the race, much of it from doctors, said: "The Senate needs someone from the real world. It has become a homogeneous ruling class."
Other Republican candidates include Lieut. Gov. Michael DeWine, a former Congressman who lost a Senate race to John Glenn in 1992; State Senator Eugene J. Watts, and George Rhodes, a businessman.
The Republican race has come down to a contest between Dr. Healy and Lieutenant Governor DeWine, who is ahead in the polls.
 
The Metzenbaum Legacy
 The 76-year-old Mr. Metzenbaum, one of the Senate's most liberal members, is leaving after 18 years. Although he stood to the left of mainstream Ohio voters, he earned their respect by fighting for the average consumer -- sometimes even against Ohio's important automobile industry, as when he backed higher gasoline mileage standards.
All of the Senate candidates suggest they would carry on his legacy as a fighter, even as they distance themselves from his liberal tradition. Mr. Hyatt, for instance, has staked out a tough position on crime, supporting the death penalty, while Mrs. Boyle does not.
Dr. Healy, whose husband is director of the Cleveland Clinic, has taken up the cudgel against President Clinton's health care proposals, warning that they will reduce Ohio's strong medical tradition to "socialized medicine."
David Sweet, dean of the Levin College of Urban Affairs at Cleveland State University, said he was "greatly troubled" as he watched the candidates on both sides "further their own interests by bashing Washington."
The race has provided a good example of how deep the anti-politician fervor really runs. "On both sides, you have experienced elected officials being challenged by outsiders," Mr. Sweet said. "When push comes to shove, will they vote for an outsider with no experience? Or will they come to the voting booth saying, 'I'm not happy, but I want someone who knows how to work within the system'?"
The opinion polls reflect that confusion, with a large percentage of voters still undecided.
At a shopping mall here, John Maziasz, a 46-year-old worker in a department store, said: "I haven't decided if I like Hyatt or Boyle. Her point about another millionaire in the Senate struck a chord with me. But I did go to Hyatt Legal Services to have my will made out."
Political analysts say the Hyatt-Boyle race is too close to call.
 
Themes of Class Warfare
 The television commercial, made by Austin/Sheinkopf Ltd., has crystalized the central conflict between Mr. Hyatt and Mrs. Boyle by hitting on class warfare themes that have historically played well here.
"It works on several levels," said John C. Green, director of the bipartisan Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron. "It taps into the feelings of the ordinary person, the anti-incumbent, anti-establishment disgust with politicians. It brings in the gender issue. Mary Boyle is a pathbreaking woman, perhaps the first female Senator from Ohio, but she's also plain folk."
It also suggests, without stating it, another class subtext of the campaign: that Mr. Hyatt's father-in-law is handing him the Senate seat. Although Mr. Metzenbaum is strongly backing his son-in-law, the Senator has not been visible in the campaign or in commercials.
Still, a former chairman of the state Democratic Party, James Ruvolo, said voters were suspicious that Mr. Hyatt's first run for office was for his father-in-law's seat. "I told him that the only thing standing between him and the U.S. Senate is being the son-in-law," Mr. Ruvolo said in an interview.
For his part, Mr. Hyatt emphasizes that he "made the legal system more responsive" by starting legal clinics that were open on weekends and at night, conducted transactions in plain English and charged less than tonier firms. Railing to reporters against the "entrenched interests" in Washington, he said he wanted to make Government similarly responsive.
That theme puts Mr. Hyatt in the awkward position of running as an outsider, even though he has endorsements from the state Democratic Party and most of organized labor. Similarly, while calling for campaign finance reform, he acknowledged that he has accepted money from political action committees.
"If I'm going to fight entrenched interests, I have to get elected," he said. "The idea isn't to fall down on your spear and die; the idea is to win."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joel Hyatt, a Democratic Senate candidate in Ohio, at a shopping center in a Cleveland suburb last Friday. The Ohio Senate race is already tight. Lieut. Gov. Michael DeWine and Dr. Bernadine Healy, Republican candidates, shook hands on Friday, and Mary Boyle, a Democrat, right, campaigned at a Ford plant. (Photographs by Michael Steinberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN SENATE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN SENATE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); RETAILERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COUNTIES (72%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); TERM LIMITS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); APPROVALS (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); CARDIOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE; METZENBAUM, HOWARD M (SEN); BOYLE, MARY; HYATT, JOEL PATTY MURRAY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



55 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
For a Victim's Sister, Rifkin's Trial Is Part of a Troubled Journey

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., May 1

 BODY:
The trial of Joel Rifkin on the first of several charges of murdering young women has offered grisly testimony and sharp disagreement between the defense and prosecution over Mr. Rifkin's mental state, along with an unexpected look at how the defendant hoped to profit from his notoriety.
The proceedings, which began April 11 with jury selection, have moved quickly, but it has been a long, troubled journey for Margarita Gonzales, whose 23-year-old sister, Jenny Soto, was among Joel Rifkin's admitted victims. Ms. Gonzales, who lives with her mother in Brooklyn, has attended nearly every court proceeding since Mr. Rifkin made his 12-page confession on June 28. 
 But it was not until C. Thomas Capers, a senior investigator for the New York State Police, took the witness stand that she learned that her sister was Mr. Rifkin's 14th victim. Trooper Capers had taken Mr. Rifkin's confession.
"Until now I didn't know whether she was No. 13 or No. 14," said Miss Gonzales. She said she felt some relief that the trial was nearing an end. But she did not know whether Mr. Rifkin would ever come to trial in her sister's death.
Mr. Rifkin faces murder charges in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens and in Suffolk County. He is on trial in Nassau County Court only for the murder of Ms. Bresciani, but the other victims have become part of the testimony because of his insanity defense.
 
Sandwiches Are an Issue
 Mr. Rifkin grew more alert in court last week after a change in diet, his lawyer says.
Last Monday, as a state trooper was recalling how Mr. Rifkin had confessed to killing 17 women, Mr. Rifkin slipped down into his chair at the defense table, tilted his head back and fell asleep.
"It was the bologna sandwiches they gave him for lunch," said Mr. Rifkin's lawyer, John Lawrence, who said his client's allergic reaction to the nitrates in the bologna had made him drowsy.
The court officers gave Mr. Rifkin nitrate-free lunches for the rest of the week and the defendant stayed relatively alert. "He's feeling as well as can be expected," said Mr. Lawrence.
Mr. Rifkin, a 34-year-old unemployed landscaper, is on trial in the killing of Tiffany Bresciani, 22, of Manhattan, whose body was found in the back of his pickup truck June 28 after state troopers stopped him for a traffic violation. He later confessed to killing her and 16 other women over a four-year period.
 
Protecting 'Marketability'
 Mr. Rifkin had hoped to cash in on his notoriety by selling his story to the highest bidder. He talked of "book rights" and "marketability" in a letter he wrote last December to Mr. Lawrence.
"We need to act fast to sell before there is a public record of the rights to my pre-arrest story or the studios will buy the story from someone else," Mr. Rifkin wrote. He noted that at least two books might already be coming out and "when they do, our marketability is dead."
The contents of the Dec. 19 letter became available to the jurors late Friday, just before they were dismissed for the weekend. The prosecutor, Fred Klein, entered it as evidence, noting that it was among some documents turned over to a psychologist who had evaluated Mr. Rifkin.
In the same letter, Mr. Rifkin cautioned Mr. Lawrence against making too many documents available to new doctors entering his case. "I should decide what I want turned over," he wrote. "Some might be very damaging," he added, expressing concern that the documents might show "implied guilt."
"Guilt implies an understanding of wrongness and responsibility," Mr. Rifkin said, a comment the jury may yet hear again in Mr. Klein's closing comments before they begin considering their verdict.
Mr. Klein also left the jury on Friday pondering another letter, written by Mr. Rifkin to Mr. Lawrence on Aug. 13. In it Mr. Rifkin expressed doubts about the efforts of psychologists and psychiatrists hired by his first lawyer, Robert Sale, to develop an insanity defense.
"What Sale is looking for is classical psych evidence," Mr. Rifkin wrote. "But there is none, no barking at the moon, no personal conversations with God, no hallucinations, no manias. The problem is I am not in the book."
When the jury in Mr. Rifkin's murder trial returns to the courtroom Monday morning, the prosecution plans to call its star witness, Dr. Elliot Park Dietz, a forensic psychiatrist and expert on serial killers.
Dr. Dietz is expected to refute last week's testimony by Dr. Barbara R. Kirwin, a clinical psychologist and the only witness for the defense, who testified that Mr. Rifkin was legally insane and therefore not responsible for the 17 killings.
Dr. Dietz has previously written that serial killers usually have an intense desire for admiration and esteem, and no appropriate way to get it. When this is combined with a sexual perversion, intelligence and an ability to avoid being caught, there is a potential serial killer, he has said. Dr. Dietz is expected to argue that Mr. Rifkin fits such a pattern.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS; TRIALS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE MURDER (91%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); WOMEN (89%); LAWYERS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); INSANITY DEFENSE (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); JURY DUTY (73%); POLICE FORCES (69%); LITERATURE (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); ALLERGIES (50%); 

PERSON: GONZALES, MARGARITA; SOTO, JENNY; BRESCIANI, TIFFANY; RIFKIN, JOEL; MCQUISTON, JOHN T JOEL RIFKIN (98%); JOHN C LAWRENCE (74%); ELLIOT PARK DIETZ (55%); FRED KLEIN (55%); MARGARITA GONZALES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



56 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Assail U.S. On Trade

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, May 2

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration's decision last week to give the new Government of Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata time to get settled before applying pressure on trade issues has been received here with a palpable sense of relief.
But if the United States thought the bureaucrats who manage Japan's trade policy would also ease up, they will have to think again. The Ministry of International Trade and Industry publicly issued a blistering attack today on a recent Clinton Administration report assessing what the American report calls an array of unfair trading practices by Japan. 
 The Japanese reply, challenging nearly every assertion in the American report, suggests there is little room for compromise and thus sends a troubling signal: Finding a way to reduce Japan's huge trade surplus and give American companies better access to the Japanese market may be no easier under the new Government than it was under the old one.
If anything, the report demonstrates that Japan's bureaucracy is growing more combative in parrying American thrusts on trade.
 
40 Areas Cited in Report
 A wide-ranging series of trade negotiations between Tokyo and Washington broke down in February, and at the end of March the Clinton Administration issued what is called a national trade estimate, analyzing perceived barriers to American companies. The report cited more than 40 areas, from computers to glass, in which it said barriers existed in Japan.
With an American deadline for action rapidly approaching in two areas -- Government procurement of telecommunications and medical equipment -- the Clinton Administration has notified Japan that it will extend the talks. The easing was intended to give the weak minority Government of Mr. Hata, which was assembled on Thursday, more time to establish itself before having to deal with these questions.
But Japan's trade policy is controlled more by the permanent bureaucracy than by politicians, and the bureaucrats' tough stand was clear in the new report.
The report asserts, for instance, that Japan's trade surplus, $130 billion last year, does not prove the markets here are closed. It also asserts that tariffs in Japan are less than half the level of those in the United States and that in some areas, like Government purchases of medical equipment, Japan is actually more open than the United States.
 
Government Budget an Influence
 Economists agree with some of those assertions. Trade imbalances are generally described as the difference between how much a nation saves and how much it invests and spends. Whether a government's budget is in surplus or deficit can have a big influence on the figures.
In addition, some American trade officials have acknowledged that the American report included some areas where there has already been substantial progress or where the proof that barriers exist is slim.
But some trade experts say the Ministry of International Trade and Industry has deliberately offered misleading figures in some of its defenses.
When comparing American, European and Japanese trade patterns, for instance, the ministry arbitrarily eliminates the figures for trade between the United States and Canada and Mexico, and trade between neighboring European countries, on the theory that trade between neighbors is fundamentally different from trade between more widely separated countries. That reduces significantly the evidence of how much America and the European countries import, and thus puts Japan in a better light by comparison.
 
Argument Contradicted
 The ministry's position also contradicts another argument the Japanese have long made, that the world is growing essentially borderless and that trade should not be looked at in bilateral terms, because goods move so easily around the globe these days.
However the validity of the American and Japanese reports is assessed, they leave no doubt that the well of distrust between the world's two economic superpowers is deepening.
In some respects, the arguments sound a lot like those that took place between the United States and the Soviet Union a decade ago, except that instead of debating the arcana of warheads and missiles the two sides are arguing over the arcana of market-share measures.
"The whole point is to increase the foreign share of markets in Japan where real barriers exist," said one American trade official. "Instead, it's become a game of how close they can come to the letter but not the spirit of the agreements we've reached."
 
What Is a Foreign Product?
 Some of the toughest arguments are over how to measure the share of foreign products in various Japanese markets, or, indeed, over what constitutes a foreign product.
Japanese imports have soared over the last decade, but a growing percentage of those imports is made up of products made by Japanese companies in foreign factories.
Honda Accords manufactured in Ohio are now Japan's best-selling imported auto, for example. Does that demonstrate a more open market, or that it is cheaper to produce goods overseas?
Those are the kinds of questions that are likely to dog the relationship between the two countries for months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BUDGETS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (64%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HATA, TSUTOMU (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



57 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Foolishness, From A to Z

 BODY:
This week House members will decide whether to turn Capitol Hill into a carnival. They will decide whether the "A to Z" spending-cut plan, which a majority of them support, should come to the floor for a vote. Under the bill, the House would engage in a 56-hour orgy of votes on any amendments proposed by individual members that would lower the deficit by cutting spending (no tax hikes allowed).
Its sponsors say the bill would allow individual members to get a public vote on pork-barrel projects that sneak their way into law as part of massive appropriations bills and which the leadership thereafter insulates from review. Amendments would be debated for up to an hour and then voted on. But once the 56 hours are up, the bill calls for voting each remaining amendment up or down without debate. 
 A-to-Z would make for great theater, allowing members to strike out against programs they despise. Its sponsors say the process would root out wasteful programs, like $1 million studies on crossing streets and $200,000 birthday celebrations of Smokey Bear. But urban members could also gang up on farm programs and farm representatives could whack at Medicaid or enterprise zones. Worse yet, the free-for-all could try to overhaul health care, eliminate welfare or balance the budget by constitutional amendment -- momentous decisions that could be taken without debate.
Rapid-fire votes would be fun to watch. But the process would mock sane deliberation. Because amendments would be filed only a day before debate commenced, they would be reviewed by no committee, outside expert or the Congressional Budget Office to see if the promised savings were real or fanciful. The procedure would also be hideously unfair: Members could propose cutting Federal programs, which often target the needy, but they could not propose closing tax loopholes, which disproportionately benefit the rich.
A-to-Z misconceives what is driving up the deficit. It is not discretionary spending; that will, under the 1993 budget act, fall to its lowest level, as a percentage of economic output, in 30 years. Nor is it all entitlement programs, most of which will remain relatively constant. The problem is escalating costs in the two health-related entitlement programs, Medicare and Medicaid. And reforming them will take more than a thoughtless vote on a hastily proposed amendment.
No doubt some of the 232 House members who are backing A-to-Z figured that the leadership would keep the malicious bill off the floor. But under new House rules, all members will be asked this week to publicly declare whether or not the bill should emerge from committee. That will force the uneasy among the sponsors to choose between hypocrisy (by voting to bottle up a bill they themselves are supposedly proposing) or lunacy (by letting the wacky bill reach the floor).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (53%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); MEDICAID (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); MEDICARE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



58 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Fed Wants Us to Think It Fights Inflation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The notion that the Federal Reserve raises interest rates to control inflation has been repeated so often, with the Fed's encouragement, that it has come to be accepted as an economic truth. Raising interest rates may deter inflation slightly given the presence of certain economic circumstances, but that is a possible effect of Fed policy rather than its purpose. 
 Indeed, the specter of inflation is so remote at present that even the Fed cannot pretend its new interest rate rise as reported by you on April 15 is designed to combat visible inflation. The new pretense makes the target "future" inflation and pursuit of an economically "neutral" rather than "stimulative" policy.
To understand the Fed's real purpose in raising rates, one must recognize two things.
First, the Fed is the overseer and protector of the country's banks, deriving its power from how well it takes care to advance the banks' interests. Second, interest charges are prices, exactly like the prices paid for sausages or milk, but these are paid for money borrowed rather than for goods bought.
When the Fed raises its discount rate, it increases its price for the money it lends to the country's banks. When it raises the Federal funds rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans, it is allowing banks that have surplus cash (because their lending opportunities are lagging behind those of more fortunate banks) to participate in the loan-demand surge being experienced by the better situated banks. And when the banks themselves raise rates, they become more profitable enterprises.
The Fed raises interest rates when the banks make clear that the demand for money is increasing. What the Fed is doing is enabling the banks to profit to the fullest extent that the "traffic will bear," and enabling itself to profit through the higher discount the banks must pay for money they borrow from the Fed to meet the heavier demand they are experiencing from their customers. In turn, the Fed has more money on hand to lend to the banks because of the higher discount rate the Fed itself is charging. The entire banking system, from the Fed on down, is the beneficiary of increased demand for loan funds.
Ultimately, one of two things happens. Either the demand for funds slacks off, or the economy becomes overextended. But only in the latter case does inflation ensue. Given the state of the American economy, that juncture is not visible on the horizon. The Fed delights in casting itself as our economic manager and savior, rather than as the board of directors for the country's money production enterprise -- interested in maximizing profits for the enterprise just like any other enterprise's board.
This sophistry cannot go unchallenged. Raising interest rates is itself inflationary, for interest rates are themselves prices. Moreover, allowing the Fed to perpetuate the myth of its anti-inflationary power and role offers the country false comfort; the Fed's arsenal of counterinflationary "weaponry" is far too limited to prevent the general price level from rising. The American economy is a vast and complex mechanism, whose oscillations cannot be controlled by money manipulation alone, and it is idle for the Fed to pretend otherwise.
 
SAMUEL M. GREENHOUSE
Boca Raton, Fla., April 25, 1994
 
The writer is a retired economist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, SAMUEL M

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



59 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Fed Wants Us to Think It Fights Inflation;
A Genuine Recovery?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your April 22 business section carries a brief article that gives added credence to the aphorism "there are lies, damn lies and statistics." Unless you can pierce the nuances to the raw figures, statistics can be dangerous to your economic health. 
 We are told the jobless rate has fallen to 6.5 percent from 6.8 percent the last few months. But an outplacement consulting firm found that most new jobs were either part-time or temporary positions. It discovered that the daily rate of reductions in the work force was up a whopping 19.9 percent in the first three months of the year compared with the last quarter of 1993, "leaving workers with a pervasive sense of insecurity about their jobs." Even comparing the rate with the rate of cutbacks in the same first quarter of 1993, it was up a significant 13 percent. Discretionary spending could be severely impacted.
Since both Keynesians and supply siders agree that two-thirds of our economy is powered by consumer spending, we may be experiencing a remission, not a genuine recovery. Further impeding a return to better times is the premature concern of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, about inflation, raising interest rates three times in two months. Although I do not question his motives, some respected economists feel higher interest rates are inflationary since a basic cost factor is increased.
 
HERBERT BARCHOFF
New York, April 23, 1994
 
The writer has served on the President's Council of Economic Advisers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: BARCHOFF, HERBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



60 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Arms Makers Try Change

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: REUTOV, Russia

 BODY:
Inside the gates of a complex where the Soviet Union once developed cold war weapons like cruise missiles and spy satellites, Gerbert A. Yefremov is waging a different kind of battle.
With arms orders having all but disappeared, Mr. Yefremov is trying to reorient the enterprise toward conquering the markets for earth-imaging satellites, solar-power cells, food-preservation equipment, water-purification systems, tinted glass, sailboats -- virtually any commercial product its scientists and engineers can design and produce with their considerable technical skill. 
 At stake for the company he manages, Mashinostroyeniya, are its 6,500 remaining jobs, down from 9,000 a few years ago, in this city 10 miles east of Moscow.
For Russia, Mr. Yefremov's success or failure will be an early test of the country's ability to convert an economy that was largely directed at maintaining military strength into one that can support jobs and create wealth in a free market.
 
Battle for Survival
 "We have always had to compete," Mr. Yefremov said. "Now it's just a different kind of competition."
But even with aid from the West, some of which is on its way, it seems that no more than a handful of Russia's military enterprises can be transformed into makers of quality civilian products at a competitive price.
As a result, even a relatively small company like Mashinostroyeniya may be forced in the long run to slim down to a fraction of its former self. That means the transformation of the military industries will barely alleviate the pain and upheaval that the military-industrial complex seems destined to endure as Russia moves in fits and starts toward a market economy.
To try to ease Russia's conversion, an American program is just getting under way to encourage American companies to seek joint venture partners among Russian military contractors.
Mashinostroyeniya was selected recently by the United States Government to be one of four Russian military complexes to participate in the first round of the program to create and finance commercial joint ventures with American companies. Under the program, which was developed by Defense Secretary William J. Perry and is being managed by the Pentagon and the Commerce Department, the United States will provide a total of $20 million to joint ventures that it judges to be models for further deals.
The other three Russian companies chosen for the program are the State Scientific Research Institute of Aviations Systems and the Istok Electronics plant, both in the Moscow area, and the Leninets plant in St. Petersburg.
 
Benefits Are Cited
 "We would prefer that these factories produce commercial goods rather than weapons of mass destruction," said Barry Carter, an official who oversees the program for the Commerce Department. "These joint ventures help the economy of Russia, and they help the U.S. and the rest of the world through more trade and investment."
Although no precise figures are available, Russia's military industry, which encompasses not just weapons makers but nearly all technology enterprises and a portion of the nation's heavy industry as well, directly employs some five million people, down by more than 1.5 million during the last few years. The industry indirectly supports tens of millions more people in a country with a population of 150 million.
As they struggle to adapt, Mr. Yefremov and his colleagues have ideas aplenty. But money is a different story. Also lacking is experience in sales, distribution, marketing and quality control. Little or no help is available within Russia on those fronts.
So the company's fate may ultimately turn on its ability to convince American and other Western companies that Mashinostroyeniya is an attractive investment and joint venture partner.
 
Some High Hurdles
 The hurdles to attracting Western help are numerous. Among them are the same problems afflicting all foreign investors here, including the lack of an established commercial legal system and a political climate in which Westerners are increasingly branded as greedy carpetbaggers. There are also problems more specific to Russian military contractors, like the lack of patents for most technologies and the slow pace of privatization.
Mashinostroyeniya -- the Russian name means machine-building, short for the company's full title, Scientific Production Machine-Building Association -- has more of a fighting chance than most Russian military enterprises. Representatives of several dozen Western companies and consulting firms have trooped through its labs here during the last several years. Some of them, like the Loral Corporation, a big military contractor and builder of satellites, based in New York, have expressed interest in the Russian enterprise.
"Mashinostroyeniya will survive and thrive because of the excellence of their technology and their devotion to the economic applications of high technology," said Clark C. Abt, director of the Defense Technology Conversion Center at Boston University, who has visited the company several times.
Even outside the auspices of the United States Government's program, American and other Western companies are combing Russia these days for opportunities to do deals with the once-mighty military industry. Booz, Allen & Hamilton, the New York consulting firm, is working on a project financed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to bring Western companies together with Russian radar and electronics producers to rebuild Russia's aging air-traffic control system.
 
Programs in the Works
 Dresser Industries of Dallas is considering making gas turbines with the Kirov military plant in St. Petersburg. Brown & Root, the oilfield services company based in Houston, is considering building offshore oil platforms and ships at the Severodvinsk shipyard, a center of nuclear submarine production that has fallen on hard times.
"These are state-of-the-art companies with no market," said Bill Hankinson, who heads Brown & Root's operation in the former Soviet Union.
But if the wreckage of the Soviet military machine holds promising business opportunities for Western companies, it is less clear whether any more than a relative handful of the most technologically advanced and entrepreneurial military enterprises can transform themselves into commercially viable companies, with or without American aid.
After all, an American executive here said, only a few big military contractors in the United States have managed to convert to large-scale commercial production, and they face a decline in military spending far less precipitous than that faced by their counterparts in Russia.
Western executives said most big military enterprises in Russia had only one or two technologies or product lines that could become viable commercial businesses. While some may need considerable numbers of production-line workers or engineers, many others will not. The Polaroid Corporation's joint venture making circuit boards at the Signal plant in Obninsk employs only 120 of the enterprise's 5,000 workers.
Mashinostroyeniya is using only 10 percent of its production capacity for Government orders and has only scattered commercial business, like assembling telephones for Siemens, the German company.
 
Glory Days Recalled
 Its current scramble for survival is a sharp contrast to Mashinostroyeniya's glory-filled past. Run for three decades by one of the Soviet Union's best-known engineers, Vladimir N. Chelomey, the enterprise had a hand in some of the nation's technological breakthroughs, including the development of the cruise missile, the design of the Salyut space station and the production of highly classified spy satellites. As leader of the Soviet Union during the 1950's, Nikita S. Khrushchev sent his son, Sergei, an engineer, to work there.
Mr. Yefremov, a genial engineer who has run the company since Mr. Chelomey's death in 1984, said he saw Mashinostroyeniya's future as a holding company overseeing a number of businesses based on some of the company's technological skills.
"We don't want to just build irons," he said. "Our wealth is not in money -- that's what we lack -- but we have real wealth in our people and our technology. That's where we start."
He said he was particularly hopeful about the company's abilities in designing and building satellites. Mr. Yefremov said he wanted to pursue a joint venture with Loral to design a telecommunications satellite at a lower cost than Western companies could achieve.
But Mr. Abt of Boston University said the enterprise's most impressive technology was based on its experience in reconnaissance satellites. He said that through its Almaz satellite program, the company had considerable skill in all-weather high-resolution radar imaging as well as in optical reconnaissance.
 
Technology's Commercial Use
 Such technologies -- which largely remain classified in the United States -- have a wide range of commercial uses, he said, including air-traffic control, pinpointing sources of pollution and agricultural forecasting. Mr. Yefremov said he was working with an American investment group to sell satellite images.
American companies have also shown considerable interest in the company's technology for solar batteries, which some experts say could be produced in Russia at far lower cost than in the West.
Mr. Yefremov said he was "100 percent optimistic" about the company's prospects. But, sounding like a far more experienced entrepreneur than he is, he said the process of conversion would be a difficult one.
"The world market existed for many years without us," he said. "Nobody was waiting for us, and nobody is going to make room for us."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 1994, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Monday about the conversion of Russian military industries misidentified the Russian manager shown. He was Gerbert A. Yefrimov, not Viktor Pavlenko.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Viktor Pavlenko, right, an official of the Mashinostroyeniya company, in Reutov, Russia, in the company's showroom. The company was selected by the United States Government to be one of four Russian military complexes to create and finance commercial joint ventures with American companies. (Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Chart: "Russian Companies Seek U.S. Partners" lists Russian enterprises the U.S. chose to participate in after signing an agreement encouraging joint ventures between the two countries (Source: U.S. Commerce Department, company reports) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (51%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (51%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA ; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; DIVERSIFICATION OF BUSINESS MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); JOINT VENTURES (85%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (74%); MILITARY BASES (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (57%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



61 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 2, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Libbey Inc.(LBY,N) reports earnings for Qtr to Mar 31

 BODY:

** COMPANY REPORTS **	Libbey Inc.(LBY,N)	Qtr to Mar 31	1994	1993		 	 	Sales	68,318,000	57,808,000	Net inc	2,869,000	b2,345,000	Share earns	.19	.16		 	 		 	 	
 
b-Included a gain of $ 134,000, or 1 cent a share, related to the company's Japanese table glassware affiliate sold in the first quarter of 1992.
 
Year-ago results are pro forma, assuming the June 1993 recapitalization and related transactions occurred at the beginning of 1992.
 
Libbey said its latest first quarter results benefited from success in growing its export sales and an improving economy in the U.S. The latest first quarter results also included Libbey's Canadian operations, acquired in June 1993.
 
<ufcoearn><cobi>Maritime Telegraph & Telephone Co.
 
Qtr to Mar 31 1994 1993
 
Revenue 130,000,000 128,500,000
 
Net inc 7,900,000 10,400,000
 
Share earns .25 .31
 
 
 
Results are in Canadian dollars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: LBY (NYSE MKT) (93%); BA (TSX) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (83%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

COMPANY: LIBBEY INC (93%); BELL ALIANT INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); EXPORT TRADE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1994



62 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
SOUTH AFRICAN BATON PASSED
President F. W. de Klerk conceded defeat with dignity in South Africa's election, and Nelson Mandela of the African National Congress accepted victory with equal grace as vote counting continued. A1
THE CELEBRATIONS BEGIN
As Nelson Mandela claimed his presidential victory, joy swept the black ghettoes of South Africa, with crowds singing and dancing, fireworks and applause. A1
The spirit of the election, not the letter, its author says. A14
More violence in Natal after a respite for voting. A15
AID PACKAGE FOR PALESTINIANS
The World Bank announced a $1.2 billion aid package to help the Palestinians achieve self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho, with programs ranging from sewers to housing to health facilities. A1
Israeli and P.L.O negotiators will meet their deadline. A7
U.N. EFFORT ON RWANDA
The United Nations is asking African nations if they would send troops to a peacekeeping operation in Rwanda, with another attempt under way to start peace talks. A3
DISAPPOINTMENT IN HUNGARY
Hungary invited foreign investment as Communism fell, but with a presidential election coming and with the economy lagging, many are accusing the Government of selling the country's patrimony. A12
A PRIME MINISTER'S BUSINESS
With Silvio Berlusconi set to become Italy's next Prime Minister, his future seems clear. What is less clear is the future of the company he owns, Fininvest, which has struggled with $2.3 billion in debt. D1
 
The Polish Airlines modernization attracts American carriers. D6
A German controversy over a ruling to ease drug laws. A12
No progress on human rights in a U.S.-China meeting. A8
Washington is reconsidering whether to use force in Haiti. A3
Goa Journal: On the wrong track in India. A4
 
National A16-20, B8
 
RULING ON CITY WASTE
The Supreme Court ruled that toxic residue created by burning waste in municipal incinerators must be treated as hazardous and not dumped in ordinary landfills. A1
SETBACK FOR INCINERATORS
Experts said the Supreme Court decision could hamper cities planning to build incinerators by increasing the cost of design and giving fodder to opponents of the plants. A18
KEVORKIAN IS ACQUITTED
A Michigan jury cleared Dr. Jack Kevorkian of charges that he had violated a state law prohibiting assisted suicide by helping a terminally ill man take his life. A1
MORE DELAYS FOR AIRPORT
The troubled Denver International Airport is still not ready for business, officials said, and no new opening date has been set. A16
FEW OPT FOR IMPLANT
More than a year after the contraceptive Norplant was made available to students at a Baltimore high school, few girls have taken up the offer. A16
SHORTER LIST FOR COURT
President Clinton and his senior aides narrowed the search for a Supreme Court nominee to three or four candidates after a long meeting, Government officials said. A16
FIRST LADY'S ROLE IN TRAVEL AFFAIR
An investigation into dismissals at the White House travel office portrayed Hillary Clinton as having a more active role in the shake-up than previously reported. B8
A DEMOCRATIC DEFECTOR?
Washington Talk: Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama has long been considered a Democrat on the verge of crossing the aisle. The talk has recently grown louder. B8
PUSHING FOR GUN BILL
President Clinton tried to persuade wavering members of the House to support legislation to ban the manufacture of 19 types of semiautomatic weapons. B8
ADS FOR HEALTH PLAN
Supporters of a Canadian-style system of government-financed health insurance announced a new advertising campaign, hoping to build on their success in a recent grass-roots campaign on behalf of the idea in California. B8
 
 
Metro Digest B1
 
DEATH OF A FAMILY
For 27 years Abraham Meyers drove without a license, accumulating a long list of suspensions and arrests. On Sunday his car hit four members of a family, killing three. A1
Business Digest D1
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
A meeting of the Arab museum world. C15
Action-film producer on her life and works. C15
Music: Two concerts by Faust. C16
Diedre Murray. C16
"Dominican Roots." C19
Dance: Boston Ballet in a new work by Tharp. C15
Books: Grace Paley's stories. C19
Television: Update on the new Russia. C20
Fashion B9
Coming back around to Blass.
Science C1-14
Fossil evidence shows how the whale returned to the sea. C1
Male hormones help shape women, too, in mind and body. C1
A scientist who leaped from yeast studies to cancer research. C1
Theory seeks to explain why immune defenses fail in AIDS. C3
Scientists are seeking more new species in Vietnam. C4
Q&A C5
Genetically engineered mice turn out human antibodies. C6
Personal Computers C8
Peripherals C9
Obituaries B10
Richard Scarry, best-selling author and illustrator of children's books.
Oliver Cope, a surgeon and professor at Harvard Medical School.
Sports B11-17
HOME RUN MYSTERY
Baseballs are flying out of major league ball parks in record numbers and people are searching for the reasons why. A1
Baseball: O'Neill in a groove. B11
9 unearned runs in third inning sink Mets. B13
Basketball: The deep Knicks. B11
Pacers sweep Magic. B15
Columns: Berkow on violence. B11
TV Sports B14
Football: Moore's new role. B14
Hockey: Rangers' Noonan reflects his roots. B14
Devils fighting for fans, too. B14
Sharks continues upset run. B14
Horse Racing: The Derby's dress rehearsal. B11
Sports People B16
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
Editorials
Shaking up the schools.
Demand action on weapons.
Horror in Rwanda, shame in U.N.
Letters
Russell Baker: Gone with the Unum.
A. M. Rosenthal: Are Arabs ready for peace?
Yirmiyahu Yovel: Understanding terrorism.
Richard Rhodes: Atomic spies, or atomic lies?
Amy Knight: The man who wasn't there.
$500 million.
Chronicle B7 Chess C14 Crossword C20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (55%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (92%); HUNGARY (92%); RWANDA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); HAITI (79%); CHINA (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); ITALY (54%); 

STATE: GOA, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (92%); HUNGARY (92%); RWANDA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); HAITI (79%); CHINA (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); ITALY (54%); GOA, INDIA (58%); DENVER, CO, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (86%); LITIGATION (86%); APPEALS (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); JUDGES (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); SUICIDE (70%); AIRLINES (69%); AIRPORTS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (67%); LANDFILLS (67%); DEATH & DYING (67%); JURY TRIALS (66%); ACQUITTAL (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (61%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); CONTRACEPTION (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



63 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: A Bitter Debate Over Italy's Fininvest

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ROME, May 2

 BODY:
With Silvio Berlusconi set to become Italy's next Prime Minister, his future seems clear. What is perhaps less clear is the future of the company he owns, Fininvest S.p.A..
While Mr. Berlusconi struggles to assemble a cabinet, Fininvest is struggling with $2.3 billion of debt, amassed during its heady growth years in the 1980's. 
 While his political aides work to reinvent Italy, Fininvest, whose $7 billion in sales make it Italy's second-largest privately owned company, after Fiat, and Europe's second-largest media group, after Bertelsmann of Germany, is struggling to reinvent itself as a lean, professionally managed company. It aims to seize the day as Italy emerges from recession, and as Fininvest's main markets, notably television, transform themselves.
This has put Fininvest at the heart of a bitter debate. After all, Mr. Berlusconi's critics say, isn't his becoming Prime Minister a bit like Ted Turner's becoming President of the United States, and holding onto his television stations? The difference is that Fininvest, in addition to controlling roughly half of Italy's television market, also controls the publishing houses Mondadori and Einaudi, 34 magazines and a handful of daily papers, financial services companies, a department store chain called Standa with 15,000 employees, and champion soccer, hockey and handball teams.
To get Italy's economy purring again, Mr. Berlusconi, who stepped down as Fininvest's chairman to enter politics, has pledged to deregulate vast areas of business from telecommunications to financial services to retail trade. The problem is that these are all areas where his companies are strongest.
The potential of these markets illustrates the possible areas for conflict of interest imbedded in the dual role of Mr. Berlusconi, because his Government will have to fill in the legislative blanks required to regulate these new markets.
"There will always remain a shadow of suspicion on the decisions of this Government," said Antonio Pilati, the director of the Institute for the Economics of the Media in Milan.
Suspicion might be milder were Mr. Berlusconi's business empire in better shape. But the pinch of recession, plus management problems resulting from rapid growth in the fat years, have left Fininvest in financial straits. The critics of Mr. Berlusconi are already accusing him of extending political favors in exchange for new investment from Mediobanca, the Italian investment bank that holds the key to Italian financial markets.
On Thursday, Mr. Berlusconi named three legal scholars to draft a law against conflicts of interest. His opponents were unimpressed, contending that this was, in effect, the wolf appointing the shepherds.
Paradoxically, the largest problem facing Fininvest, whose shares are wholly owned by Mr. Berlusconi either directly or through fiduciary companies, may prove in the end to be the loss of Mr. Berlusconi himself.
Last January, when he resigned as chairman, he turned to Fedele Confalonieri, an old school friend, and Francesco Tato, a tough executive with a reputation as a turnaround artist, to clean up his company.
 
A Clash of Cultures
 Mr. Confalonieri, at 56, represents Fininvest's club of old boys who held tight to their seats while the group grew at dizzying rates. But that culture of size clashes with Mr. Tato's culture. He entered Fininvest from Mondadori six months ago, and his specialty is trimming fat and tightening management.
"It was all easier when he was here, than now that he's not here," Mr. Tato said of Mr. Berlusconi. "It leaves us with the problem of changes that are necessary, without his charismatic imprint."
The real doubts about Fininvest arose last year, when, according to Mr. Tato, Mr. Berlusconi decided someone had to sort out his company's jumbled holdings.
"For 12 years, we were expanding at all costs," Mr. Tato said, in an interview at Fininvest's Milan headquarters. "When you're in the rage of development, you tend to make mistakes. When you have 20 percent growth and cash flow, why bother?"
Even so, Mr. Tato added, "The company is extremely successful. It has stamina, it has culture."
 
High Marks on Investments
 Indeed, analysts give Mr. Berlusconi high marks for his investment choices. He moved aggressively into financial services like insurance and funds, when these markets were exploding in Italy. He bought into Standa and several strong advertising agencies just as Italian retailing began to transform itself away from mom-and-pop stores.
He moved with imagination and vigor, and some would say political cunning, to develop private television, and in 1991 paid $600 million for Mondadori's publishing empire.
"At the end of the day, they're a good group of companies at the individual level," said Dagmar Bottenbruch, a corporate finance specialist at Credit Suisse First Boston in Milan.
 
Assembled for Tax Purposes
 By the late 1980's, however, the advertising market was saturated, and recession was crimping consumer spending, and with it Fininvest's cash flow. Moreover, the tangled group of companies was largely assembled to dodge convoluted Italian tax laws. Thus, while debt was amassed at the top, taxes were paid at the operating level, meaning little cash percolated up to meet huge interest payments.
By 1992, the last year for which there are reliable figures, the problem was enormous. Fininvest declared $12 million in net earnings, but Mr. Tato acknowledged it could do so only by claiming extraordinary asset gains that amounted that year to about $142 million. He insists all the operating companies are now profitable, and lower interest rates have reduced debt service; still, the situation has not dramatically improved.
Indeed, six months ago few in Italy were betting on Mr. Berlusconi. Besides the debt, several company executives, including Mr. Berlusconi's brother Paolo, were under investigation in Italy's big payments-for-favors scandals. With national elections scheduled for this year, the country seemed headed toward a leftist-led government, promising a shake-up of private television, the linchpin of Mr. Berlusconi's business.
More significantly perhaps, Mr. Berlusconi's debt was concentrated at major Italian banks led by Mediobanca and its 86-year-old honorary chairman, Enrico Cuccia, the quiet godfather of Italian finance.
 
The Fall of Ferruzzi
 In the 1980's, only two Italian businessmen of size, Mr. Berlusconi and Raul Gardini, the head of the big Ferruzzi industrial group, remained aloof from the circle of industrialists around Mr. Cuccia. When Ferruzzi collapsed last year, dumping billions of dollars of debt onto the banks, and prompting Mr. Gardini's suicide, many believed Fininvest would be the next to go under.
But last October, Mr. Berlusconi called in Mr. Tato, 61, a veteran of the big Olivetti electronics group, which has long been considered one of Italy's best management schools.
A lean man with a bright smile, who negotiates as readily in English or German as his native Italian, Mr. Tato is called "Der Kaiser" for his success in turning around Germany's sleepy Kienzle computer company, after it was acquired in 1982 by the Mannesmann steel group, and Triumph-Adler, which Olivetti purchased in 1986 from Volkswagen.
Mr. Tato says his task is essentially twofold:
First, he intends to trim Fininvest to a financial holding company by transferring operating activities like administration and data processing, and much of the group debt, to the operating companies, and installing effective managers to create four large groups: publishing, financial products, retailing and television.
 
Taking Companies Public
 Once this is accomplished, he said, the idea is to take these companies public, reducing Fininvest's stake and broadening the shareholder base, while raising capital to reduce the debt. The first big step came last week, when Fininvest announced it was uniting its publishing interests in the Mondadori group, and floating a 53 percent stake on the stock market, which, Mr. Tato said, would net Fininvest between $467 million and $545 million.
The lead role of Mediobanca in placing the shares signaled the reconciliation of Mr. Berlusconi and Mr. Cuccia.
Analysts say Fininvest's overhaul assumes particular urgency because of the fast pace of change in Italian telecommunications, as illustrated by the deal announced last week by Bell Atlantic and another of Italy's telecommunications giants, Societa Telefonica per Azioni, or STET, to develop interactive telecommunications systems.
In Italy, as in the United States, advertisng revenues no longer suffice to finance the growth of television services, according to Mr. Pilati. Yet, with an obsolete television broadcasting system and no cable or satellite services, Italy will require a vast investment in pay television to raise the cash needed for new video services that link cable or phone lines and computers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Fininvest Team -- Italy's Prime Minister-designate Silvio Berlusconi, left (Associated Press), has stepped down as chairman of Fininvest, Italy's second largest private company, after Fiat, and turned over its management to Fedele Confalonieri, lower left (Gaetano di Filippo/Daylight), and Francesco Tato, below. (Associated Press); Still, suspicions of conflict of interest linger about Mr. Berlusconi and the company, which he owns. (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "The Company He Keeps" shows net sales, debt and income for Fininvest from 1988 to 1992. (Source: Company reports)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MN (BIT) (55%); MB (BIT) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: FININVEST SPA; MEDIOBANCA SPA ARNOLDO MONDADORI EDITORE SPA (55%); MEDIOBANCA-BANCA DI CREDITO FINANZIARIO SPA (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FININVEST SPA; MEDIOBANCA SPA

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; ETHICS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); PUBLISHING (70%); ETHICS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); SOCCER (65%); DEPARTMENT STORES (65%); US PRESIDENTS (52%); 

PERSON: BERLUSCONI, SILVIO; TAGLIABUE, JOHN; CONFALONIERI, FEDELE; TATO, FEDELE SILVIO BERLUSCONI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



64 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: AGENCY OFFERING AN AID BLUEPRINT FOR PALESTINIANS

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2

 BODY:
The World Bank unveiled a three-year, $1.2 billion program today, worked out with the Palestine Liberation Organization, to quickly lay an economic foundation for Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho.
Last Oct. 1, the United States organized a meeting of 40 donor countries, which pledged $2.4 billion to support the new Palestinian authority in the former Israeli-occupied areas. 
 Since then, the World Bank and economic experts from the P.L.O. have been working on a program that would take these diverse and often vague pledges and forge them into a coherent, detailed plan for economic development -- identifying the major needs, specifying how the money should be spent, eliminating duplication and setting clear priorities.
This program is expected to begin almost immediately after the planned signing in Cairo Wednesday of the full Israeli-P.L.O. accord governing the transfer of Gaza and Jericho to Palestinian self-rule. The first steps in the economic program will involve the laying of sewers and construction of waste-disposal facilities in Gaza and Jericho.
Other projects -- for improving housing, roads, health centers, telecommunications and water -- will follow as soon as the engineering studies are completed.
"If the peace process has any hope of success, the Palestinians need to see improvements in their living conditions very quickly," said Caio Koch-Weser, the World Bank vice president for the Mideast and North Africa.
"The program and the funds behind it," he said, "are for the immediate needs of the Palestinians and will help create a new physical and social infrastructure, provided political stability can be maintained. But unless there is a visible improvement in social and economic conditions, in an equitable way, the very foundations of peace will be undermined."
The World Bank plan, released today, details how to spend half of the $2.4 billion over the next three years, and the rest later. The plan will be carried out by the P.L.O.'s Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction, based in Jericho, in cooperation with the World Bank, Israel and the donor nations.
World Bank officials caution that poverty will not be eliminated in Gaza and Jericho in one year, where the per-capita income is $1,275. But they have to start somewhere.
While these officials would not say so, the plan provides both a blueprint for Palestinian economic development and a straitjacket intended to prevent corruption or the creation of show projects that are not economically viable.
The P.L.O. chairman, Yasir Arafat, would have preferred a looser arrangement, under which the P.L.O. received money directly from donors to spend as it saw fit, and would have allowed Palestinian ministries to make deals with individual nations for projects. But such an approach can invite payoffs, kickbacks and the sort of uncontrolled development that has plagued other Mideast nations.
This plan stipulates that any contracts financed or co-financed by the World Bank must be put up for competitive bidding, and there are tight rules for maintaining accountability.
 
Meat and Muscle
 The connection between these projects and the Palestinian-Israeli economic agreement signed in Paris on Friday is this: the Paris accord basically established the rules in which the new Palestinian economy would operate -- what taxes can be collected, how many banks can open, what tariffs can be charged, from where oil is to be imported, and generally how the Palestinian administration will relate to Israel's economy. That was the skeleton for the Palestinian economy, and the World Bank program is the meat and muscle the Palestinians and the donor countries hope to put on that skeleton.
In its first three years, the Emergency Assistance Program for the Occupied Territories, as it is formally called, is made up of these elements:
*A total of $600 million will initially be spent on public investment in housing, transportation, sanitation, health, education, telecommunications, roads, electricity, agriculture and water projects. The West Bank will receive $366 million, and Gaza will get $234 million.
*A total of $225 million will be spent on start-up costs for the central government, police force and other public institutions in Gaza and Jericho, as well as support for non-governmental relief organizations working there. The Palestinians plan to create a central administration to take over functions of daily life now performed by the Israeli civil administration. They will need money to establish their own bureau of statistics, budget office and data collection.
*A total of $300 million will be spent to stimulate private investment in telecommunications, housing, agriculture and industry. This will involve financing to local credit institutions, developing a central Palestinian bank-supervisory agency and developing a uniform legal and regulatory framework to assure investors that property rights and contracts will be respected and enforced.
*About $75 million will go for technical advice, ranging from helping Palestinians devise certain political institutions to undertaking feasibility studies and project preparation for further economic development.
The underlying objective of all the projects is to stimulate job growth. A report issued today by the International Labor Organization said that at least a quarter of the labor force in the occupied territories is already out of work, and joblessness exceeds 40 percent in Gaza alone.
World Bank experts hope that the Palestinians will avoid some of the mistakes that Arab governments have made in economic development. Economists say the Palestinians have one advantage of being economically underdeveloped: They can start from scratch in many areas. The hope is that they can be induced to follow the model of the East Asian economies, with their emphasis on private investment, personal saving and education, rather than that of Syria, Jordan and Egypt, with their legacies of socialism, government intervention and dependence on aid.
This plan is intended to help foster a Palestinian economy in which the balance between public and private investment will be clearly tilted toward the private sector as the engine of economic growth, as is the case in East Asia. The plan assumes an economy with an open trading system and a non-protectionist approach to industrial development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (93%); 

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) BANK OF ISRAEL (58%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (94%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (94%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; GAZA STRIP; JERICHO; ISRAEL; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; ROADS AND TRAFFIC ; HOUSING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; WATER; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TRENDS (71%); CORRUPTION (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



65 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: White House Not Ruling Out Force in Haiti

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2

 BODY:
President Clinton's national security advisers say they are reconsidering whether to use force to oust Haiti's military leaders, a threat that could satisfy mounting pressure from members of Congress and toughen the additional sanctions that the United Nations is expected to impose on Haiti this week.
A senior adviser to the President said today that no decision had been made about whether the United States would seek to remove the military government headed by Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras in order to restore the democratically elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, or how to do that. It is unclear whether there has been a change of heart by Administration officials who all but rejected the military option as recently as a few weeks ago. 
 White House officials who briefed members of Congress on the revised sanctions policy last week were surprised that lawmakers now consider tightening the embargo on Haiti to be an outdated approach.
Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, who attended the meeting, said he and others had advised Samuel I. Berger, the deputy national security adviser, and Strobe Talbott, the Deputy Secretary of State, not to close off military options.
 
Focus Primarily Diplomatic
 In an interview today, Senator Graham said he had told the officials: "I have come to conclude that if your objective is the restoration of Aristide, then that objective must be matched with the means to accomplish it. At this point, the only means is a credible threat and a willingness to use military action."
Administration officials, however, say they are focusing primarily on diplomacy, expanding sanctions, increasing aid to feed 1.2 million of Haiti's 6.4 million people and sending international and United Nations officials to monitor human rights.
Administration officials stressed that Mr. Clinton is still some distance away from deciding for or against the use of force. But Pentagon officials said they had begun some preliminary planning aimed primarily at signaling the Haitian military about the seriousness of United States intent.
Such a move would also let the White House show Mr. Clinton's domestic critics that it is serious about returning Father Aristide to power.
One sign that the United States still has not made up its mind is the absence of serious pressure on the Dominican Republic to stanch the flow of gasoline and oil over the border into Haiti.
The State Department had asked President Joaquin Balaguer of the Dominican Republic to comply, but one senior department official said that Mr. Balaguer had responded that "there is nothing to discuss" until after elections there on May 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



66 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
In the latest consolidation of the health care industry, Roche Holding, the Swiss-based drug maker, agreed to acquire Syntex in a deal valued at $5.3 billion. [D1.] 
 I.B.M. said that Robert J. Corrigan, the personal computer unit's president, had resigned and that the management had been reorganized. [D1.] I.B.M. plans to announce significant changes in its line of AS-400 minicomputers, industry executives said. [D9.]
AT&T and Novell said they would join forces to enable Novell's popular computer communications software to operate over AT&T's long-distance network. [D1.]
The Neiman Marcus Group said it would close the Pastille clothing chain and shut 50 of its Contempo Casuals stores. [D5.]
MFS Communications raised its tender offer for Centex Telemanagement by 22 percent, and Centex agreed to accept it. [D5.]
To support a new alliance with Alitalia, Continental will paint Alitalia's logo on one of its planes. [D5.]
Conseco said an affiliate had agreed to acquire the Statesman Group for about $350 million. [D6.]
Kmart announced the details of its plans to issue a new class of common stock for each of four specialty-store businesses. [D7.]
NBC picked the chairman of Viacom Entertainment, Neil S. Braun, to be president of the broadcast television network. [D22.]
 
International
With Silvio Berlusconi set to become Italy's next Prime Minister, his future seems clear. What is less clear is the future of the company he owns, Fininvest, which has $2.3 billion of debt. [D1.]
As a sign of how far the modernization of LOT Polish Airlines has come, the carrier is talking to Delta Air Lines and American Airlines about alliances that would link some flights. [D6.]
Though Hungary has attracted billions of dollars of foreign investment, the hopes of Hungarians are far from fulfilled, and foreign corporations seem to be reconsidering. [A12.]
 
The Economy
Manufacturing expanded for the eighth straight month in April, a survey of purchasing managers indicated. And the Commerce Department said construction spending rose eight-tenths of a percent in March. [D2.]
Supporters of a Canadian-style system of national health insurance announced an ad campaign, heartened by their success in placing a "single-payer" initiative on the California ballot. [B8.]
 
Markets
The biggest question on the minds of many market analysts last week was this: How could it be that American interest rates were rising and yet the dollar was suddenly falling against the Japanese yen and the German mark? News Analysis. [D1.] The dollar fell against the mark for the seventh straight session. [D17.]
After a long delay, the Clinton Administration will nominate Mary L. Schapiro, a Securities and Exchange Commission member, as head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a Government official said. [D18.]
Stocks rose on strength in economically sensitive issues and drug stocks. The Dow rose 19.33 points to 3,701.02. [D10.]
Revenue bonds that financed the construction of Denver's new airport dropped as much as one point in trading. [D18.]
Oil prices rose after natural gas explosions temporarily shut production at some North Sea oilfields. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
The S.E.C. has tried to make it easier for foreign companies to list on U.S. exchanges. But it could be some time before the companies take up the invitation. Market Place. [D10.]
Democracy in South Africa also means the return to America of the country's Krugerrands. But new marketing efforts for the coins play down the political. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); CNO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (69%); ITALY (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC (84%); NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (83%); ROCHE HOLDING AG (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); MFS COMMUNICATIONS CO INC (56%); VIACOM INC (55%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); LOT POLISH AIRLINES SA (53%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (69%); ITALY (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (86%); CURRENCIES (85%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); FUTURES (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (68%); US DOLLAR (68%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); GERMAN MARK (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (57%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



67 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Makes No Progress With Beijing

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2

 BODY:
With a month to go before he must decide whether to renew China's preferential trade status, President Clinton made no progress during a meeting today with a top Chinese official toward resolving differences between the two countries over human rights.
In a written statement, the White House said Mr. Clinton had reminded Deputy Prime Minister Zou Jiahua of his insistence that China do more to improve its human rights record by the June 3 deadline. But senior White House officials said later that Mr. Zou had simply reasserted Beijing's view that the United States should not interfere in its internal affairs. 
 "They sort of talked a little bit past each other," a senior White House official said after the 40-minute meeting in the Oval Office. Dee Dee Myers, the White House spokeswoman, described the session as "businesslike," but other American officials called it stiff and uncomfortable.
 
Follows Christopher's Visit
 The meeting was the first between Mr. Clinton and a top Chinese official since his discussions with President Jiang Zemin at an Asian summit meeting in November, and comes six weeks after Secretary of State Warren Christopher met with Chinese intransigence in four days of human rights talks in Beijing.
Administration officials said it would almost certainly be the last such meeting before Mr. Clinton must decide whether and under what terms to renew China's favored trade status, and they expressed disappointment that Mr. Zou had not been more conciliatory.
The officials described Mr. Zou as among the more hard-line members of the current Chinese leadership, and they expressed continued hope that Beijing would ultimately give the Administration the political cover it needed to extend China's most-favored-nation status, which entitles it to export its products to the United States at the lowest possible tariff rates.
With the Chinese economy growing faster than that of any other nation, Mr. Clinton and his aides have no appetite for choking off trade by withdrawing China's preferential trade status.
 
Discussions With Democrats
 In private, White House officials have said they now see the question as not whether the status should be renewed, but under what terms, and they have been consulting with Democratic advocates of a tough policy toward China about a compromise that would allow a considerable amount of trade to continue even if China fails to meet the Administration's human rights objectives.
Today, in a sign of their unwillingness to risk a new rupture in the fragile relationship, Administration officials declined to speak publicly about the Chinese position, and the White House did not permit reporters and photographers to question either Mr. Clinton or Mr. Zou.
That followed Mr. Clinton's decision on Saturday to postpone until June 30 a decision on whether to designate China as one of the world's worst pirates of American recordings and software, a step that could subject it to trade sanctions.
White House officials said the President had sided on Saturday afternoon with Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and others who warned against injecting new tensions in United States-Chinese relations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS; ZHOU JIAHUA (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



68 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Puzzling Currency Move;
The Dollar Was Supposed to Rise. It Fell. The Answer May Lie in New Expectations.

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2

 BODY:
The biggest question on the minds of many market analysts last week was this: How could it be that American interest rates were rising and yet the dollar was suddenly falling against both the Japanese yen and the German mark?
Normally, when American interest rates rise, the expectation is that the dollar will get stronger, because Germans and Japanese will want to buy dollars to put them in American banks or bonds to take advantage of the higher interest returns. But instead, it went the other way. 
 The answer to this puzzle may be an interesting lesson in the economics of expectations, and in today's global marketplace the hunch, the hope, the intuition and the expectation have a whole new meaning and impact. Why? Because when a few market leaders get a hunch and the herd follows, money managers and speculators can move so much capital so quickly in and out of markets in search of short-term gains that it can be highly destabilizing for any currency that finds itself under attack.
Despite the Clinton Administration's efforts to prop up the dollar on Friday, it continued to lose ground today. In New York, the dollar fell to 1.6491 marks, from 1.6540 on Friday, and slipped slightly to 101.67 yen from 101.70. [Page C17.]
Even though American interest rates have been rising, traders say that their expectation was that with both President Clinton and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen calling for a cap on further increases, American interest rates had probably peaked, or nearly so.
Meanwhile, other very different expectations were evolving regarding Japan and Germany. Last week, Japan finally got a new Government together under Prime Minister Tutsomu Hata, but it was a minority Government, put together with Scotch tape and filled with all sorts of factions, making it so fragile that many expect to count its life span in weeks, not years or even months.
The expectation created by that Government was that it would be a long time before Japan was able to meet even the minimum demands being put forward by the Clinton Administration for opening certain of its key markets. Therefore, trade tensions will continue between the two countries, and the United States will continue trying to force Japan to open markets by keeping the dollar weak and the yen strong.
When the dollar is cheap it means American exports are cheap and easier to penetrate the Japanese market; when the yen is strong it is much harder for the Japanese to sell abroad.
So while the higher American interest rates may have created the apparent expectation that the dollar would strengthen, the real expectation of the marketplace was that the trend of upward rates was probably approaching its limit and could therefore be discounted.
 
Shifts Termed Relative
 At the same time, the creation of a weak Japanese Government only reinforced and extended the expectation in the marketplace that the United States would tacitly support a weak dollar and strong yen. Therefore, even though American interest rates may be marginally higher than Japan's in nominal terms, the potential for making money in the currency markets from a stronger yen seemed to some to be far greater than what could be expected from any further increases in American interest rates.
One American official stressed that all these shifts in expectations were relative. They may apply at any one time to only some big investors, who may help push a currency up or down. But clearly, if everyone felt the same way, a currency would move much more sharply than the dollar did last week. Nevertheless, even subtle changes in expectations when married to huge amounts of money can have a big market impact.
That is why the Clinton Administration decided it had to break the psychology of expectations, by supporting the dollar. In its public statement, the Administration said that it was intervening in the markets because they had become "disorderly" -- meaning that the dollar was falling too far too quickly.
Officials said they wanted to signal the market unequivocally: the United States is not relying on a policy of further weakening the dollar to address its trade problems with Japan.
While most American officials considered this a big deal, some analysts and traders were not particularly impressed with the American intervention. They said they found it rather timid and tentative and they expected that the dollar could well be tested again very soon. The fact that the dollar inched down still further today certainly reinforced that view.
"If you are going to intervene to stabilize a currency, you have to do it massively, with a good deal of coordination with other major central banks, and in a way that really threatens market participants, otherwise they will test you again and again," said Henry Kaufman, the market analyst who runs his own investment firm. "You have to tell the market: 'If you are going to speculate, it is going to cost you.' You have to be ready to take away a good deal of the money that these speculators are ready to commit to this kind of activity. Instead, the only message was that the U.S. Government doesn't like disorder. There was a lack of conviction behind it."
The Federal Reserve has to be "ready to go for the jugular" of market speculators with the same ruthlessness as they are ready to attack a currency and ride a profit, Mr. Kaufman added, otherwise it will not be taken seriously in the long run.
As for the mark, the expectations of the marketplace seemed to have turned sharply there as well. Indeed, American officials said they had to prop up the dollar much more against the mark than against the yen. Several traders say that the conventional wisdom these days is that the German recession has clearly bottomed out. Germany is headed for growth this year of about 1.5 percent, with inflation either flat or heading down.
 
German Recovery Expected
 Reports from Germany today said corporate order books were filling up again, industry was working at higher capacity and companies were reporting sharp gains in profits and sales for the first quarter of the year. Finance Minister Theo Waigel told Parliament last week that another economic miracle was on the way, similar to Germany's soaring recovery after World War II.
As the market digested this information in the last week or so it produced a set of new relative expectations about the relationship between the mark and the dollar, and not surprisingly many investment funds were reported to be stocking up on German bonds and equities. In today's electronic global Monopoly game, the push of only a few buttons can suddenly set off a wave of dollar-selling and mark buying -- as it did last week.
The only good news in all this, one senior American official said, is that next week expectations can change back just as quickly in the dollar's favor, and the electronic herd will be sure to follow.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Bumpy Ride for the Dollar" shows comparisons of the yen and marks to the dollar from 1993 to 1994. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



69 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
SUSPENDED DRIVER KILLS 3 IN A FAMILY
For 27 years Abraham Meyers drove through New York without a license, accumulating an ominously long list of suspensions and arrests, including three for driving while intoxicated. Late Sunday, his car hit four members of a Brooklyn family as they left a celebration in Howard Beach, Queens. Three of them died and the fourth was critically injured. A1. 

The five members of the Vaccarello family did nearly everything together. B2.
 
GRADUATING HARDER, BUT NOT IMPOSSIBLE
Acknowledging that his plan to raise math and science standards for all high school students would be difficult, Schools Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines said that he did not think the stricter requirements would increase the number of dropouts. B3.
 
DNA TESTS ORDERED IN ESTATE CLAIM
To resolve the question of paternity and a claim to an estate, a judge in Manhattan has ruled that both the parents of a dead man and the 7-year-old whose mother claims he is the dead man's son must submit to DNA testing. B3.
 
CHARGING SOME HOMELESS FOR SHELTER
In an effort to prod homeless people to seek treatment or training, officials are considering charging those who refuse help a "modest" rent for remaining in a city shelter. B3.
 
PANEL CRITICIZES PREVENTIVE-CARE SYSTEM
A City Council committee released a bleak report on the city's new system of preventive health care clinics, charging that the opening of the last six clinics has been hampered by delays and that the system is staffed so poorly that patients must wait -- sometimes as long as two months -- for routine appointments. B7.
 
PRISON KITCHEN TO BE BUILT IN THE BRONX
Under pressure from a court order and state lawmakers, Mayor Giuliani plans to add $128 million to the city's capital budget to build a giant kitchen in the Bronx that would prepare food for prisoners on Rikers Island, mayoral aides said. B7.
 
REGION
 
YOUTH IS SHOT ON COURT STEPS
A 17-year-old boy was shot and critically wounded in Bristol, Conn., when a midday dispute that began inside the police-court complex spilled out to the courthouse steps. The gunman, the police said, is 15. B5.
 
JUDGE REJECTS MISTRIAL FOR RIFKIN
Joel Rifkin's lawyer moved unsuccessfully for a mistrial, arguing that a photograph and an article in Newsday on Saturday could prejudice the jury in Mr. Rifkin's murder trial. B5.
 
SOUP KITCHEN FINDS ITSELF HOMELESS
Five days a week for the last decade, the Long Beach Food and Friendship Inn has been serving meals at noon. But now that a local church has refused to renew its lease -- the latest in a series of forced departures from churches and community centers over the years -- the kitchen itself has joined the ranks of the homeless. B5.
 
SEARCH RESUMES FOR MISSING GIRL
Searchers returned to a patch of the Adirondack Mountain forest in hopes of finding the body of 12-year-old Sara Anne Wood, who disappeared last summer while riding her bicycle. B4.
 
Chronicle <B7
 
Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves B5

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Urban Unemployment" shows unemplyment for Newark, Hartfoed and N.Y.C. from Feb. '93 to Feb. '94. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MISTRIAL (88%); MAYORS (86%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); MURDER (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); FORENSICS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); DNA (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JURY TRIALS (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); JUDGES (73%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (71%); MATHEMATICS (71%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (70%); LEGAL PATERNITY (69%); DNA TESTING (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%); HEALTH CARE (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (64%); BUDGETS (62%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



70 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Airport-Opening Delay Is a Jolt to Bondholders

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bondholders in Denver's new $3.2 billion airport were jolted yesterday with the announcement of yet another delay in the opening. The publicly traded revenue bonds that financed the construction dropped as much as one point in trading in the municipal bond market.
Analysts note that with each delay of the airport's opening the investment risks increase. 
 The opening has already been delayed three times, and a fourth delay is expected to prompt credit rating companies to cut their ratings on Denver airport bonds. Some investors yesterday sold the bonds amid concern the debt will slip to non-investment grade, or junk-bond, status, traders said.
Mayor Wellington Webb of Denver announced late yesterday that the airport's opening would be delayed indefinitely because the computerized baggage system did not meet the requirements of the city or the airlines.
While the "short-term consequences would be unpleasant at best," he said, a premature opening "would be disastrous."
The city's revenue director, Patricia Schwartzberg, said the cost of the delay was expected to create a shortfall of $16 million to $17 million a month for the city, but that United Airlines, the major hub operator there, has agreed to cover its full share of those costs, which will be about $8.8 million a month for three months. The other airlines that operate at Denver will be required to cover the rest of the costs, either before the airport opens or afterward, in the form of higher fees.
Yields on most of the airport's actively traded bonds rose as much as 10 basis points, said one trader. At Goldman, Sachs's trading desk a 6.75 percent Denver airport bond due in 2022 was off about 1/2, to 89 5/8, to yield 7.65 percent.
The same bond back in December 1992 was trading at 95 to yield 7.13 percent and in June 1993 it was at a price of 102 1/8 to yield 6.59 percent.
Mark Webber, a vice president and senior fixed-income analyst at Kemper Securities, said that when compared to the Bond Buyer index of 25 revenue bonds, the yield spread of the 6.75 percent bond was 60 basis points over the index in January. That spread has more than doubled since than and was 130 basis points over by the end of last month. The widening of this spread is a measure of how much the value of the bonds has dropped just because of the opening delays and other problems with the airport.
 
Delay in Opening Airport
 The last delay in opening the airport, which was then due to open March 9, prompted the Standard & Poor's Corporation and Moody's to warn that further delays would likely result in lower ratings on the airport's revenue bonds.
Standard & Poor's rates the bonds BBB, one notch up from its lowest investment grade. Ernie Perez, an analyst with S.& P., said that in addition to the cost of the delay in opening the airport, S.& P. was concerned about other future financial uncertainties if the airport did not meet projected operational measures, including passenger traffic. "This could negatively impact overall costs, which are capped by the airline agreement at $20 per plane passenger in 1990 dollars and future decisions by airlines to serve the airport," he said. He also said that S.& P.'s rating decision would be based on the course of action taken by the city.
Moody's Investors said yesterday that it was reviewing its conditional Baa-1 rating on Denver airport for a possible downgrade. A lower rating may be assigned as early as today, they said.
While large institutions were not trying to sell their Denver airport bonds, traders said, some individual investors and mutual funds did try. About $20 million of the bonds were offered for sale in the secondary market, with one fund offering $3 million of Denver airport bonds for sale, traders said.
Denver International originally was scheduled to open in October 1993. Construction delays and baggage system problems pushed the date to December, then March and finally May 15.
The construction of the airport, the first new one in the nation in 20 years, was financed mostly with revenue bonds. Bonds sold in 1985 were used for land acquisition and were followed by the first project bond sale in 1990 and then in 1992.
The bonds are expected to be repaid by revenue generated from fees from the airlines using the airport and its other revenues. The city is not obligated to repay the bonds should airport revenues fail to meet operating costs and debt service once the new airport is open.
 
Treasury Market
 Elsewhere, prices of Treasury securities sagged after the National Association of Purchasing Management index came in higher than expected. Traders and investors are still uneasy following the dollar's slide in the currency markets last week.
By late in the day the 30-year bond was down 10/32 , to 872/32 , or to 7.33 percent, from 7.30 percent on Friday.
James Hale, an analyst of fixed- income securities for MMS International, said: "The bond market extended its losses after the data, which was a mixed bag, with the N.A.P.M. employment figure rather impressive. But the slight decline in prices was something of a relief. As for construction spending, the headline figure for March was certainly below expectations, but most of the shortfall was in public construction, which unexpectedly fell 2.7 percent, while private construction was up a solid 2 percent."
The production index fell to 62.7 in April from 64 the prior month. The price component, which reflects inflationary pressures, fell slightly to 63.2 from 64.2.
The April rise in manufacturing employment in the N.A.P.M. data was the first increase in more than five years. That was bearish news for bonds as was the fact that new orders remained strong and the backlog of orders rose significantly, suggesting continued economic growth for the immediate future.
United States March construction spending rose eight-tenths of 1 percent, far less than the 1.2 percent gain forecast. February was revised slightly higher to a 1 percent decline from the 1.2 percent drop earlier reported.
Following are the results of yesterday's three- and six-month Treasury bill auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.989	97.771	Discounted Rate	4.00%	4.41%	Coupon Yield	4.10%	4.57%	High Price	98.999	97.781	Discounted Rate	3.96%	4.39%	Coupon Yield	4.06%	4.55%	Low Price	98.989	97.765	Discounted Rate	4.00%	4.42%	Coupon Yield	4.10%	4.58%	Accepted at low price	86%	24%	Total applied for	$38,825,039	$43,170,806	Accepted	$11,407,714	$11,456,468	Noncompetitive	$1,314,825	$1,095,851	
 
Both issues are dated May 5, 1994. The three-month bills mature on Aug. 4, 1994, and the six-month bills mature on Nov. 3, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from Jan. to May. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (96%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; DENVER (COLO); UNITED STATES (96%); COLORADO, USA (96%); DENVER, CO, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; AIRPORTS; DENVER INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (COLO) BONDS (94%); AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



71 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: New York Agrees to Build Prison's Kitchen in Bronx

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Under pressure from a court order and state lawmakers, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani plans to add $128 million to New York City's capital budget to build a giant kitchen in the Bronx that would prepare food for prisoners on Rikers Island, mayoral aides said yesterday.
The new expenditure is part of nearly $500 million in budget additions and restorations that Mr. Giuliani will announce today in his proposed $18.8 billion capital spending plan for the next four years, the officials said. The new projects will not affect the city's debt payments, senior aides said, because of savings from bond refinancings. 
 By building the kitchen in the city, Mr. Giuliani would reverse the decision of Mayor David N. Dinkins, who argued it would be less expensive to buy frozen dinners instead from a state-run kitchen in Orangeburg, N.Y.
 
$20 Million for Food
 Complying with a court order to improve the food at the jail complex, the Dinkins administration had decided last November to pay the State Department of Mental Health about $20 million a year to provide food from its kitchen in Orangeburg, in Rockland County. As part of the agreement, the state would have spent $4.5 million to expand the kitchen.
But in early April, the Legislature voted against allowing the department to spend the money after Bronx legislators and the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver of Manhattan, raised objections, saying hundreds of potential jobs would be lost to the Orangeburg center. The Bronx, they argued, with its proximity to Rikers Island, has many potential sites, among them the Hunts Point Produce Market, at 331 Tiffany Street.
Deputy Mayor Peter J. Powers said the Mayor agreed with them. Although the Dinkins administration had determined it would be far less expensive to truck the food into the city, it did not take into account the 427 jobs that would be created at the kitchen and elsewhere in the city or the ripple effect of those jobs on the economy, Mr. Powers said.
Mr. Powers said creating jobs in Rockland County would "send an inconsistent message" to the businesses that Mr. Giuliani has been trying to retain in the city. He said the city would put out a request for proposals from private companies that want to build the kitchen.
"It upset me because I saw us as having a message because New York is open for business again and we go to Rockland County," he said. "I felt the responsibility to keep the jobs here."
 
A 1995 Deadline
 The city is under a 1979 Federal order to change the way it prepares the meals as a result of a lawsuit filed for inmates by the Legal Aid Society after a series of riots in the 1970's. The suit complained about a variety of conditions, including food, cleanliness and visiting hours. The order set a deadline of September 1995.
The Dinkins agreement had defended its agreement with the State Department of Mental Health, saying it would insure that the city could comply with the court order and not be at risk of a strike or a business failure crippling whatever private company provided food to the jails.
Besides the new kitchen building, officials said the capital budget would include increases of about $50 million for repairs to the Williamsburg Bridge, about $20 million for repairs to the Queensboro Bridge, about $50 million for upgrading city computer systems, about $35 million for costs associated with an economic development project on 42d Street, and about $50 million for various Sanitation Department costs, including some new garbage trucks and a system to control water at the Fresh Kills Landfill.
 
No Police Academy
 Despite the additions, the budget still will not include financing for a new police academy in the Bronx, a politically popular project which Mr. Giuliani cut in February, officials said.
Nor will the plan include additional money for capital projects in the subway system or in the school system, despite calls for more construction dollars from both the Transit Authority and the Board of Education, officials said.
Money for rebuilding the Kings County Hospital Center will remain in the capital budget at the same level, but it will not be spent until a special task force that is re-examining the troubled project finishes its work sometime this summer, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: RIKERS ISLAND PRISON COMPLEX (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: RIKERS ISLAND PRISON COMPLEX (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PRISONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RIOTS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LEGAL AID (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (64%); LAYOFFS (50%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



72 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls Again vs. Mark As Fed Remains on Sidelines

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against the German mark yesterday for the seventh straight trading session as confidence in the American currency continued to wane and the Federal Reserve made no apparent effort to stem its slide.
On Friday, The Fed bought dollars for marks and Japanese yen after the dollar fell to a six-month low against the mark and an eight-month low against the yen. Now traders are waiting to see if the Fed is willing to defend the dollar again. 
 "People are testing the Fed's resolve," said Albert Soria, foreign-exchange manager at Kansallis Osake Pankki, a Finnish bank in New York. "Right now, there's no reason to buy dollars."
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6491 marks, down from 1.6540 marks on Friday. It was little changed at 101.67 yen, down from 101.70 yen. Trading was less active than usual because London, the world's largest foreign-exchange center, was closed for a bank holiday.
Many traders have become bearish on the dollar because it failed to rally in the first four months of the year, even though German interest rates fell and American interest rates rose, which should have made dollar-denominated assets more attractive to investors.
"The dollar is a dog right now," said David De Rosa, director of foreign-exchange trading at the Swiss Bank Corporation. "Everything looked good for the buck, and it couldn't go higher. Now people are selling it."
The Fed raised its interest rate on overnight bank loans three times this year, lifting the Federal funds rate to 3.75 percent from 3 percent. But instead of following interest rates higher, the dollar has fallen about 5 percent against the mark and 9 percent against the yen since Jan. 1.
The Fed's dollar purchases on Friday failed to halt the currency's slide, in part because many traders did not expect the Fed to buy again unless the dollar's weakness took a toll on the Treasury market, the way it did last week.
"The Fed bought dollars to calm jittery stock and bond markets, not to defend specific exchange rates," said Lisa Finstrom, currency analyst at Smith Barney Shearson.
The Fed made no apparent effort to support the dollar yesterday, traders said. On Friday, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen announced that the Fed was buying dollars to "counter disorderly conditions." The Fed usually does not discuss its activities in the foreign-exchange market.
Bond prices fell during the last three trading days amid concern that a weaker dollar would diminish the value of American assets and worsen inflation by driving up prices for imports.
Elsewhere, the Venezuelan bolivar fell almost 3 percent against the dollar today amid concern that Venezuela's Government would impose restrictions on foreign exchange or devalue the currency. The bolivar was last quoted at 127 to the dollar bid and 128 offered, down from 124 offered late Friday.
The British pound fell to $1.5162, from $1.5185 late Friday. The dollar fell to 5.6485 French francs, from 5.6645 francs on Friday. It was steady at 1.4030 Swiss francs and 1,588 Italian lire. The Canadian dollar was little changed at 72.34 United States cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



73 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Factory Data Were Strong During April

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2

 BODY:
Manufacturing expanded for the eighth straight month in April, with the strongest showing in manufacturing employment in five years, the National Association of Purchasing Management said today.
In another report, the Commerce Department said today that construction spending rose eight-tenths of a percent in March, reversing two months of weather-related declines. 
 The purchasing managers' index -- a gauge of factory production, orders, employment and prices -- rose to 57.7 last month from 56.7 in March. A reading of 50 or more indicates the manufacturing economy is expanding.
Growth in heavy industry "edged forward in April after stabilizing in March and brought with it the first increase in manufacturing employment in more than five years," Robert J. Bretz, chairman of the association's survey committee, said.
 
17 Report Improvement
 Of the 20 manufacturing industries surveyed, 17 reported an overall improvement from March, the most to report improving conditions from the previous month since the association began tracking specific industries in March 1990.
The report "seems to be consistent with reasonably strong but not blockbuster growth," Robert A. Brusca, chief economist at Nikko Securities International, said.
Significantly, businesses hired workers in April. The purchasing managers' employment index rose to 50.8 percent last month from 48 percent in March -- marking the first time that index climbed above 50 since January 1989.
The Labor Department will release its April employment report on Friday. Analysts expect a gain of 190,000 nonfarm jobs, according to a survey by Bloomberg Business News. In March, the economy added 456,000 nonfarm jobs, though mainly in the service industries.
Also on the positive side in today's manufacturing figures, the purchasing managers' price index, considered a gauge of inflation, slowed to 63.2 from 64.2.
In the Commerce Department report, spending increased on housing and commercial buildings, but declined on public projects like schools and military bases, reflecting Government spending cuts.
Even so, today's construction report was weaker than expected. Private economists surveyed had forecast a gain of 2.1 percent in total spending during March.
Construction spending totaled a seasonally adjusted 495.4 billion during March after a 1 percent decrease in February to $491.7 billion, initially reported as a 1.2 percent decline.
Pent-up demand after a harsh winter overshadowed buyer concern about increasing mortgage rates, analysts said. The Federal Reserve has raised its rate on overnight loans between banks three times since early February to keep inflation in check.
The last monthly increase came in December, when construction spending advanced 2.2 percent, to a record $508.7 billion, as the economy wound up its strongest quarter since the mid-1980's. Compared with a year earlier, spending rose 9 percent in March.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending" shows total construction spending in billions of dollars from Oct. 1992 to March 1994. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PRODUCTION MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); WEATHER (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (71%); INTEREST RATES (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



74 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
North Sea Gas Explosions Drive Up Crude Oil Prices

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Oil prices rose yesterday after natural gas explosions temporarily shut down oil production from some North Sea oilfields.
The gains extended a monthlong rally, pushing crude prices near five-month highs. 
 The explosions, described as minor by the authorities, forced evacuations of most workers on an oil platform about 100 miles northeast of Aberdeen, Scotland. No one was hurt in the blasts.
Meanwhile, analysts tried to explain the crude oil market's surge of the last month, noting that wholesalers have been rebuilding inventories.
"If you look at the demand numbers, the U.S. is definitely carrying the ball," said Morris Greenberg, an energy analyst at Lehman Brothers who predicted crude might hit $19 a barrel.
At the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for June delivery rose 26 cents, to $17.16 a barrel, after trading as high as $17.32 during the session.
As recently as late March, crude oil was approaching a five-year low of $13.75 a barrel after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to roll over its output ceiling of 24.5 million barrels a day until the end of the year.
But analysts said expectations for a tighter market later this year, when demand for OPEC oil may outstrip the group's supply, had nudged the industry into building inventories at cheap levels.
"It seems like companies are willing to add on to inventories, perceiving prices will be low relative to later this year," Cyrus Tahmassebi, chief economist at Ashland Oil, said.
"I think demand is definitely stronger than most people anticipated and, to me, it's a surprise OPEC countries are sticking to their pledge not to overproduce."
The cold winter reduced American crude inventories, which need to be replenished before the summer driving season.
The American Petroleum Institute, a trade group, estimated crude oil stocks at 339 million barrels, 6 million fewer barrels than a year ago. Gasoline stocks also are about 6 million barrels below last year's level.
"In the near term, I don't see crude stocks rebuilt substantially until possibly mid-June," Mr. Greenberg said.
Among other energy products, June unleaded gasoline gained 0.48 cent, to 50.47 cents a gallon, and June heating oil added 0.48 cent, to 47.57 cents.
On other commodity markets, aggressive selling by commodity funds hit soybean futures, while wheat prices surged because of damaging cold weather in the Plains and rumors of Russian demand.
At the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, July soybeans dropped 6.75 cents, to $6.6975 a bushel, and July corn edged down 0.25 cent, to $2.7175. Meanwhile, July wheat firmed 4 cents, to $3.3475 a bushel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); SCOTLAND (72%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH SEA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA; UNITED STATES (78%); SCOTLAND (72%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH SEA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; GAS (FUEL); EXPLOSIONS; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS CRUDE OIL MARKETS (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (92%); OIL EXTRACTION (91%); FUTURES (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); GASOLINE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); WHOLESALERS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (73%); 

PERSON: MORRIS GREENBERG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



75 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Renewed marketing efforts for the South African Krugerrand will play down the political.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE arrival of democracy to South Africa also means the return to America of South Africa's most familiar product, the Krugerrand. But the renewed marketing efforts for the gold coins are deliberately playing down the political in favor of the rational and the emotional.
An ambitious campaign for Krugerrands -- employing advertising, direct marketing, promotion and public relations -- just now beginning is the first in this country since 1985, when the importing of new coins was prohibited as part of the sanctions against the longtime apartheid policies of South Africa's former Government. Yet the print ads and test TV commercials spurn the issues surrounding the coins' comeback, eschewing upbeat photographs of Nelson Mandela and F. W. de Klerk in favor of a focus on the value of gold and its appropriateness as a gift. 
 One print ad, featuring a youngish grandfather (or oldish father) playing with a baby, declares: "The eternal wisdom of buying gold. For yourself, it's always wise. As a gift for someone you love, it's positively brilliant."
In a second print ad, showing a father and son on graduation day, the father declares, "We want to mark this moment in his life with something he'll have forever.
"And who knows?" the father continues. "Maybe someday he'll show it to his kid when he's trying to get him to do his homework." Both ads in the campaign, which has a 1994 budget of about $3 million, carry the theme "Generation to generation."
The decision not to exploit the intense publicity surrounding South Africa's first all-race elections, which were won by Mr. Mandela's African National Congress Party, seems curious in light of the growing trend toward advertising that takes advantage of public interest in news events, whether momentous (the collapse of Communism) or marginal (the dysfunctional Bobbitts and Buttafuocos). Those involved in bringing back the Krugerrand, however, consider their approach will be more effective by being less evanescent.
"It's really not our job to pitch the new South Africa," R. Elizabeth Rech, the United States marketing representative for the Krugerrand, said.
"Our job is to get gold out of the ground and into the hands of the man on the street," she added of the Krugerrand Marketing Group in Hingham, Mass., an affiliate of the Chamber of Mines of South Africa, a consortium of that country's mining companies. "We want to sell gold much more than sell the country from where it comes."
Bill Luceno, chairman and chief executive at Ally & Gargano in New York, the agency handling the advertising aspects of the campaign, said that centering the sales messages on the political changes in South Africa "was never an issue, never even discussed."
"Marketing any product on the basis of any temporary condition that could change is crazy," he added. "We wanted to introduce it on the marketing merits of the product, on the basis of its real value to the consumer. Period, the end."
Steve Brounstein, senior vice president and management director at Ally, said that consumers had guided the agency in that strategy.
"In the research we did, we did not identify the source of the Krugerrand," he explained, "and out of 200 people we talked to, only one or two were even aware the Krugerrand was mined in South Africa." So even if there was any consideration of marketing it "as a coin commemorating peace in South Africa," he added, "that was just not the right way to market this product."
Melissa Barasch, an executive vice president and group creative head at Ally, said the research also made it apparent the ads should be "centered on these golden moments in life, if you will, moments worth marking like the birth of a baby or parents' golden anniversary." That would result in selling Krugerrands, in four sizes from a tenth of an ounce to one ounce, for both gift and investment reasons, she added, rather than solely for investment purposes.
Such a dual pitch made particular sense given the changes in the American economic climate since the Krugerrands' first go-round, from 1975 to 1985. Purchases then were driven mostly by inflation fears, which forced gold prices to historic highs; Ms. Rech, who also worked on selling Krugerrands to Americans in the 1980's, said the peak year for sales, at more than two million, was 1978.
Ally's print ads are running in the May issues of personal finance magazines like Money and Worth. Tests of television spots based on the print ads will start on May 16 in Dallas and Seattle.
Ally was awarded the Krugerrand Marketing Group advertising account two months ago in a review that also included as finalists Grey Advertising and Wells Rich Greene BDDP, both of New York. Safani Direct in New York was selected to handle direct-marketing duties, like fulfillment of telephone calls to a toll-free "800" number, and communications with gold-coin sellers. Dorf & Stanton Communications is handling public relations.
And JK Designs in Old Greenwich, Conn., designed the first packaging for Krugerrands sold in America, replacing what Ms. Rech called "a piece of plastic junk" with gift boxes, pouches and envelopes for those "who buy one coin and stick it in a safe deposit box."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHAMBER OF MINES OF SOUTH AFRICA (51%); KRUGERRAND MARKETING GROUP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: KRUGERRAND MARKETING GROUP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; KRUGERRANDS; ADVERTISING; SOUTH AFRICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); COINS & COINAGE (91%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (76%); DIRECT MARKETING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUDGETS (69%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); MINES & MINING (60%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (56%); FREDERIK WILLEM 'F W' DE KLERK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



76 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Coming Back Around to Blass

BYLINE: By BERNADINE MORRIS 

 BODY:
"Every five years I get rediscovered," Bill Blass said wryly. He can tell this is one of the good years from the enthusiastic reactions of store buyers who were writing orders for his fall collection and the number of magazine editors who want to photograph his clothes. "My philosophy has not changed," he said. "But sometimes it works better than other times."
It was clear that Mr. Blass had a success from the moment the first of his fall styles appeared on the runway of the tent in Bryant Park, where most Seventh Avenue designers introduced their collections last month. Three models in brightly colored double coats with undulating edges appeared together; one was in an orange coat over a blue coat, another in orange over chartreuse and the third in purple over orange. Worn over black tights and black dresses, the coats were beacons of color in a fashion scene that has been dominated by dark or neutral colors for some time. 
 Later in the show, he returned to the double-coat motif, showing the same style with curving edges in black-and-white-striped satin over black wool.
 
Three Coats in One Package
 "The satin coat can be worn all year, the wool coat when it's cooler and the two together in the dead of winter," Mr. Blass said, indicating that even high fashion can have its practical side.
His attitude toward dressing dates back to the years before World War II when, at age 18, he came to New York from Fort Wayne, Ind., to take a job at David Crystal, a sportswear manufacturer. At about the same time, he was selling design sketches to a company that was making evening dresses, he recalled last week in his showroom.
"Those were my two interests," he said. "I always believed in sports clothes for day and glamorous styles at night."
Both themes are prominent in his current collection. After the double coats, he showed raincoats in pale colors, high-waisted dresses with lightly flaring skirts and many suits in checked and plaid woolens with pleated skirts or pants. Evening clothes were shown in cut velvet, handpainted silks and chiffon.
 
Dressy Meets Casual
 Some of the most intriguing outfits combine casual and dressy elements, as in a man's polo coat tossed over a chiffon dress. A cut-velvet dinner suit was accompanied by a sweater, not a blouse.
"Two types of clothes have been successful in the past few years," Mr. Blass said, "minimal and young. I still like clothes to be simple, but not really minimal. Women are saying they have had enough of plain drab clothes. Now they want 'more.' "
Another factor that has contributed to the collection's success, the designer said, is color.
"We're talking about women who don't want a wardrobe of black, gray and beige clothes," he said. "I was in California recently, and of course I went to the stores to see what was selling. Chanel suits were outselling everything else -- in bright colors like raspberry and green. They were pretty. Whatever happened to the idea of pretty clothes?"
Mr. Blass believes that pretty clothes will return after the most drastic change in fashion since the 1960's.
"Thirty years ago, clothes were youth-oriented, as they are today," he observed. "But we've mixed everything up with grunge, matted hair, the Depression look -- the baby doll has been tarnished. The 80's emphasized fantasy clothes because of the affluence everywhere. The 70's saw the emergence of the woman who works and needed clothes to help her compete with men.
"Now we have to create a new style -- not too bizarre, not too exotic, not too opulent. The clothes have to maintain a contemporary image and appeal to women of all ages, not just the very young."
 
A Problem Solver
 If his collection succeeded, he suggested, it was because he solved some of the problems involved in making this new style happen.
"I didn't show any ball gowns," he said, "because the short evening dress -- we used to call it the cocktail dress -- seems more acceptable to more women."
The suit jackets are generally shaped closely to the body in a high- waistline cut; dresses also follow this Empire silhouette. The results are styles that look fresh and snappy.
"There is every indication that the economy is improving, and this certainly will prove a boon to fashion," Mr. Blass said. "The business still intrigues me, and I love the fact that I have re-emerged again."
But being realistic, he said he would not be sure the collection worked until it started to reach consumers. It will this week, when the clothes are introduced at Saks Fifth Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Blass in his office in his Seventh Avenue salon. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Multicolor dinner jacket and vest. Double coat: black-and-white striped satin over wool. Long jacket is part of pants suit with matching vest. Tattersall checked wool suit has brief jacket over short pleated skirt. Wispy chiffon dress paired with tailored coat. In a long dinner dress, rope straps double-cross over bare back. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (72%); 

CITY: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); INDIANA, USA (72%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); APPAREL MFG (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, BERNADINE; BLASS, BILL MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



77 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Arab Museums Try to Preserve a Purpose

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, May 2

 BODY:
The world of diplomacy is suffused with genteel language that hides, just beneath the surface, roiling passions. Especially, it would seem, in the Arab world, where the passions sometimes break defiantly through the surface. But if one knows the context, one can discover impassioned meanings in even the politest of formulations.
Or so it seemed here last week, when some 80 museum directors and related government officials from 18 Arab countries gathered for the first nearly comprehensive conference of the Arab museum world. (Only Kuwait and Saudi Arabia boycotted the proceedings, presumably on political grounds.) 
 The conference was organized by the International Council of Museums, a 10,000-member, 120-country organization founded in the United States and based in Paris, and it was called "Museums, Civilization and Development." Technically private, the council (known as ICOM) operates out of Unesco headquarters and partakes of diplomatic as well as museological manners.
 
What's in a Title?
 The conference's title might seem generalized to the point of vacuity; all museums supposedly espouse civilized values. But in the Arab world, riven just now by fundamentalism and confronted with a potential calming of tensions with Israel, the exact nature of "civilization" and "development" -- what those terms embrace, what they exclude and whose values (Arab? Islamic? Western? universal?) they can be said to represent -- remains intensely controversial.
Malika Bouabdellah, the director of the National Museum of Fine Arts in Algeria, described the conference's background most succinctly in a paper submitted before the sessions began. "The economic, political, moral and spiritual crisis that we are living through is pulverizing our standards of values and our very beings," she wrote. "We despair and tear ourselves apart. We regress in believing that we are realizing our hopes, we impoverish ourselves, we lose track of our roots."
Ms. Bouabdellah named no specific source for the crisis she described. But given Algeria's torment just now -- some of the Algerian delegates had either been threatened with death by fundamentalists or seen their museums physically attacked -- her meaning was clear enough, and formed the most imposing of the conference's several powerful subtexts.
On the surface, the conference proceeded in a smooth and orderly manner. Apart from a visit to Petra, the astonishing archeological site where one of the 2,000-year-old sandstone facades was the temple in "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom," the five-day event was devoted to public sessions and closed workshops concerned with matters of intense practical importance to museum officials: the training of curators and restorers, the management of museums, the standardization of terminology, the development of computer software and the compilation of personnel directories and registers of stolen artworks. There was also a call to form an Arab regional museum organization to be called either ACOM or ARACOM.
 
Frank Private Expression

 
 But the underlying agenda was more interesting than the official agenda. Any such conference -- the council's first in the third world took place in Africa in 1991 and another may be in the works for Asia -- is meant to forge personal bonds that lead to regional cooperation. Here, however, some of the issues were too sensitive for formal expression and found more frank and heated expression privately.
The Palestinian delegation, for instance, was determined to include in the formal recommendations a stiff demand that Unesco and ICOM be more active in the recovery of lost Palestinian cultural artifacts. Mouyad Mohammed Said Damerdji, the Iraqi director general of antiquities, aggressively sought language demanding international help in restoring artworks looted during the Persian Gulf war. "The language of Unesco is very bland; it has no taste," he grumbled.
But the most troubling concern, always implicit and sometimes explicit, was about the impact of Islamic fundamentalism. This is a tricky issue, because Arabs are convinced that Westerners stereotype them. Unless they are directly subjected to death threats, they are unwilling to seek outside assistance or even comment about their problems. Indeed, when they have been threatened, they may be even more shy.
"If there's a feud going on, it's a family feud," said Kristina Davies, an American who directs the Ford Foundation regional office in Cairo and who channeled $125,000 of Ford money to the Amman conference. If the Arabs are suspicious of the West, they had ample reason to be suspicious here, since a healthy portion of the budget (along with contributions from the Jordanian government and the Ford Foundation and Unesco), came from such unashamedly Western institutions as the Rockefeller Foundation, the J. Paul Getty Trust, the French Foreign Ministry and the British Council.
 
'All Our Heritage'

 
 Still, many of the delegates, usually sotto voce or off the record ("It's very easy to be branded as anti-Islamic," Ms. Davies remarked), conceded their concerns on this issue. Safran Tell, the Jordanian director general of antiquities and museums and the host of the conference, boasted that "we were once Jews, we were once Christians, and today we cultivate all our heritage" and denounced those "impossible people who are just ignorant, who don't know what they're doing."
The most outspoken of the delegates was Aicha ben Abed ben Khader, a curator and former director of the Bardo Museum, Tunisia's oldest and largest, who wrote in her paper of the "horror of the extremists that seizes us daily." These "forgers of hatred," she added, purveyed "demagoguery, pure and simple," which seeks to "obliterate civilizations preceding the Islamic conquest."
"It is evident," she concluded, "that in countries like ours the role of museums can be basic for not only presenting diverse civilizations, but also for introducing to the public an idea of tolerance and a respect for differences."
Several days into the conference, she had hardly backed down, adding that "it will take all our efforts to combat the obscurantism that threatens us at every moment." One of her projects is a traveling exhibition illustrating the diversity of Arab cultures before Islam.
 
Promoting Tolerance

 
 Her ideas found a place in the final recommendations of the "research, ethics and legislation" workshop, which call for museums to be "a privileged forum of transcultural exchanges" that "should fight against all kinds of extremism and promote tolerance." Mr. Damerdji of Iraq, the chairman of that workshop, responded "No, no, no" when asked if those clauses constituted a denunciation of Islamic fundamentalism. "She was speaking about radicalism in general," he said. This was technically true, but ignored her specific citation of the fundamentalist problem.
Ms. Davies of the Ford Foundation and Elisabeth des Portes, a Frenchwoman who is the secretary general of the council, also stressed that one goal of the conference's Western sponsors and organizers was to promote tolerance.
"Without specifying or targeting any group," Ms. Davies said diplomatically, "it's certainly in my interest to promote pluralism in this area."
Ms. des Portes argued that the very participation in a conference like this constituted a commitment to international values. "Not one of the people here could be called a fundamentalist," she said. "They don't express themselves directly, but cosmopolitanism is the sense of all their actions. If we can be a resource for tolerance, we can be a bulwark against fundamentalist ideas."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A guide taking members of the International Council of Museums through Petra, an archeological site in Jordan. The group stopped before one of the 2,000-year-old sandstone facades. (Bill Lyons for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (93%); ALGERIA (93%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (54%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF MUSEUMS (83%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF MUSEUMS (83%); UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF MUSEUMS (83%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF MUSEUMS (83%); UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; AMMAN (JORDAN); JORDAN (93%); ALGERIA (93%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (56%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (54%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS; ARABS; ISLAM MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); BOYCOTTS (75%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (73%); HISTORIC SITES (60%); ART THEFT (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: KHADER, AICHA BEN ABED BEN

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



78 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: Senate Campaign Is Financed by Individuals

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Health Debate Is Filling Campaign Coffers" (front page, April 19), on my race for the Senate, fails to put the issue in perspective.
You have repeatedly praised my health care plan because it is good public policy. Publications ranging from The New Republic to Fortune have also favored it. I drafted the legislation back in 1991 and 1992, long before I had any thought of running for the Senate. 
 I am the only major Senate candidate in America who has refused political action committee money, even though the Senate voted to ban PAC's only last year.
I have raised more money from individual Tennesseans who do not work in the health industry than any candidate in Tennessee history.
About 19 percent of my contributions do come from people who work in health care, but that's about its share of Tennessee's economy. It is the state's largest private employer.
Many people who attack my fund raising are frustrated with my health plan's popularity and are unable or unwilling to debate it on the merits.
As you note, I have never claimed to be a hero as a result of refusing PAC funds. Having voted for virtually every campaign finance reform bill in Congress, I chose three years ago voluntarily to limit myself without waiting for the ban to become law.
My campaign is financed entirely by individual contributions. And 80 percent of the individuals who have contributed to my campaign are Tennesseans. About 200,000 Tennesseans work in health care. These citizens have a right to be heard in the health care debate, regardless of the health care reform approach they support.
 
JIM COOPER
Member of Congress, 4th Dist., Tenn.
Washington, April 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); TENNESSEE, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); INSURANCE (73%); 

PERSON: COOPER, JIM (REPR) JIM COOPER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



79 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 3, 1994,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Drug Issues Help to Drive Stocks Higher

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Strength in economically sensitive stocks, along with a big rally in drug issues, added up to a solid advance yesterday for the general stock market.
Despite early weakness, the market moved upward for the second consecutive day. And it was only the third time in the last month that stock prices gained while bond prices declined. With prices lower, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 7.33 percent, from 7.30 percent on Friday. 
 "It was a good day, maybe even a fairly normal day on Wall Street," Hugh A. Johnson, senior vice president of the First Albany Corporation, said. "The markets responded as they should respond to the news."
The major news event affecting the stock market was the April report of the National Association of Purchasing Managers. Its index rose to 57.7, a one-point rise that was greater than expected and that matched the January figure -- the highest mark of this key indicator in the last six years.
Another key factor in the broad market movement was the announcement that Roche Holding of Switzerland intended to acquire Syntex for $24 a share. The stock of the American drug company did not open until 12:30 P.M., yet it was still the New York Stock Exchange's most active issue. It closed at 23 1/2, up 8 1/4.
All three of the major market indexes advanced for the day. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 19.33 points, to 3,701.02; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.11 points, to 453.02, and the Nasdaq composite index advanced 6.84 points, to 740.68.
Trading on the Big Board was just short of 300 million shares, slightly more than Friday's volume of 294 million shares and near the yearly average of 305 million shares. Advancing stocks outpaced declining issues by 1,235 to 946.
Other drug stocks were strong yesterday, based on indications that the Syntex acquisition could presage further consolidation and restructuring in the industry. Merck advanced 1 1/2, to 31 1/8; Eli Lilly increased 2 3/8, to 51 5/8, and Upjohn rose 1 3/4, to 28 1/2.
Among the economically sensitive, or cyclical, issues, there were a number of standouts. For instance, chemical stocks that were higher yesterday included Du Pont, up 1 3/8, to 58 1/2; Dow Chemical, up 1 3/8, to 64 1/8, and Union Carbide, which gained 3/8, to 26 3/4.
Eastman Kodak jumped 3 1/4, to 44 3/4, apparently because of rumors that the company may spin off its Sterling Drug unit.
Also closing on the downside yesterday was Alpha-Beta Technology, a biotech company that suffered from a presentation at a medical meeting on Friday of disappointing data on its experimental product, Betafectin, which is designed to prevent infections in patients who have undergone surgery. The stock plummeted 9, to 12 1/2.
Trading in Lehman Brothers Holding began yesterday on the Big Board on a when-issued basis. Lehman, which is being spun off by American Express, has a book value of about $31 a share. However, the stock of the securities firm closed at 19 3/4 after reaching a high of 20 7/8.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the stock market's activity on Monday misstated the change in the closing price for Eastman Kodak in some copies. Its shares rose 3 1/4, to close at 44 3/4; they did not fall 3 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (71%); ROG (SWX) (58%); LLY (SWX) (52%); LLY (NYSE) (52%); DOW (SWX) (51%); DOW (NYSE) (51%); DOW (LSE) (51%); 4850 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) GLEACHER & CO INC (71%); ROCHE HOLDING AG (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); ELI LILLY & CO (52%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (51%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (50%); ALPHA-BETA TECHNOLOGY INC (50%); BIG BOARD (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) BIG BOARD (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CHEMICALS (86%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (69%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (68%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994



80 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Defends Foreign Policy Record

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3

 BODY:
Saying that the United States "cannot turn our back on the world," President Clinton offered a broad defense tonight of his foreign policy initiatives and issued tough-sounding challenges to North Korea and other foreign governments.
"America cannot solve every problem, and must not become the world's policeman," he said in an international forum televised by Cable News Network. "But we have an obligation to join with others to do what we can to relieve the suffering and restore peace." 
 Despite his strong words, Mr. Clinton also conceded that his foreign policy team had faced a more complicated world than he expected and that they made a number of errors along the way.
"All leaders sometimes have had to back and fill and alter their course throughout history," Mr. Clinton said. "But there is no vacillation in the principles of the policies here. It's just that we don't know what will work within the limits of our ability to deal with some of these problems.
"But as we venture out in these new areas, we have to risk error. And so I have been willing to risk error. And when you do that, you get more criticism."
 
Stymied in Bosnia
 Mr. Clinton said that he had been especially stymied by efforts to pursue a sound policy in Bosnia and said that it had been much more difficult than he had imagined during the 1992 campaign to put together an international coalition to try to stop the fighting between Serbs, Croats and Muslims in the former Yugoslavia.
"Do I wish we could have done more earlier?" he said. "Do I wish the Europeans and our other allies had totally agreed with me? Of course, I do. But I also respect their differences and their long experience in this area. I did the best I could, I moved as quickly as I could."
In response to a reporter who questioned the vacillation of his Bosnia policy, he said tightly that there "have been no constant flip-flops" by his Administration.
Mr. Clinton appeared on a 90-minute-long program provided by the Cable News Network to beam his defense of his policies to more than 200 countries and territories around the world. He seized on the opportunity to try to address lingering questions about his competence in determining when the United States should intervene in foreign conflicts and the consistency of American policy abroad.
 
An Audience Abroad
 White House officials said Mr. Clinton was conscious tonight that he was addressing a foreign audience as well as Americans, and hoped to demonstrate his command of foreign policy to that broad audience.
A New York Times/CBS News poll conducted April 21-23 showed that Mr. Clinton's foreign policy ratings have been dropping steadily since January. In the latest results, the 1,215 people surveyed were divided on Mr. Clinton's performance, with 41 percent disapproving and 40 percent approving.
The margin of error in the sample was plus or minus three percentage points.
Administration officials are working to reassert control over the sliding ratings by demonstrating a tough stance toward American problems overseas.
Part of that effort has been to send a unified message of American resolve toward North Korea. Defense Secretary William J. Perry said in a speech in Washington today that the United States remains prepared to defend South Korea by military force if the Government in Pyongyang refuses access to its nuclear weapons facilities.
Mr. Clinton issued a similar message tonight. "No one wishes this confrontation," Mr. Clinton said. "But neither does one wish to have a state not only with nuclear power but with a capacity to proliferate nuclear weapons to other nations. It is a very serious potential situation."
 
Economic Security Is Central
 Stressing that his foreign policy "road map" would continue to treat economic security as central to his global strategy, Mr. Clinton said the United States would also concentrate on promoting democracy throughout the world.
"Our goal is to foster the success of new democracies, like those in Latin America and now South Africa, and to apply pressure to restore democracy where it has been overthrown, as in Haiti," he said.
Mr. Clinton announced today that he will double American aid to South Africa in the wake of that country's first democratic election.
The new aid package will provide about $600 million to South Africa over three years, and Mr. Clinton said he believed it was important that the American commitment be sustained.
On Haiti, Mr. Clinton told reporters in Atlanta before the television appearance that he had "run out" of patience with the leaders of Haiti's military regime. But he immediately said he hoped tougher sanctions, rather than imminent military action, would be the best approach.
 
Patience at an End
 Tonight he said he believes in a "good neighbor policy" with countries in the hemisphere but that the United States can no longer tolerate the abrogation of democracy in Haiti. While saying that he had done his best to avoid pursuing a military option, he added, "We cannot afford to discount the possibility of a military option."
In response to a question from a television reporter from Trinidad and Tobago, Mr. Clinton said: "This is the responsibility not of the United States but the people who are running Haiti tonight. They have brought this reign of terror and poverty on their people" and they could end it tomorrow.
Mr. Clinton was asked starkly different questions on Bosnia from Belgrade, the capital of Serbia, and Sarajevo, home of the Muslim Government of Bosnia, and gave sharply different responses. When a correspondent from Belgrade wondered whether any change of American strategy could be expected on the Bosnian conflict, perhaps including equal treatment of all three sides and lifting sanctions on Serbia, Mr. Clinton replied: "I guess the short answer is no. But not entirely."
But when he was faced by a long and angry question from CNN's correspondent in Sarajevo, Christiane Amanpour, in which she asserted that the Administration had constantly flip-flopped, Mr. Clinton's reply was terse with irritation. Mr. Clinton said, "There have been no constant flip-flops, madam."
He went on to assert that "we have been much more active than my predecessor was." But he added, "I did not believe we should inject American ground forces" into the conflict in Bosnia to affect the outcome of the civil war there.
 
Underestimated on Bosnia
 Relaxing, Mr. Clinton then acknowledged that "I underestimated the difficulty of putting a coalition together" to influence the war in Bosnia. "I underestimated the difficulty of getting broad agreement through NATO. It took too long to get together." But he said, "It's not fair to say we've gone back and forth."
Mr. Clinton said the United States and its allies had stopped the Bosnian conflict from spreading, and he said he would try to get the parties to the conflict to negotiate "a decent peace."
Mr. Clinton said he and the other Middle East leaders all believed there was a greater chance than ever before to reach "a breakthrough agreement" between Israel and Syria. "We have a real chance to make progress this year," he said in answer to an Israeli journalist.
He agreed with a Palestinian journalist who suggested that territories previously occupied by Israel would need more than the $2 billion in aid pledged so far by foreign countries.
He said he expects private investors, including Jewish and Arab Americans, to increase their investments in the territories.
Mr. Clinton denied Japanese assertions that his trade policy constitutes one of "managed trade" or that he was seeking special treatment for the United States.
"We look to Japan for leadership," he said. "People worry because of the fight over trade. But we are not only partners but friends. We must not allow differences that reflect a mature relationship and debate to spoil a relationship important for the world."
 
Concerns on China Trade
 On another trade issue, Mr. Clinton said cancellation of China's most-favored-nation trading status would undermine relations between Washington and Beijing and would damage the standard of living of many people in China.
"I do not wish that to happen," Mr. Clinton said in response to a question from a Chinese journalist, but it is a possibility because China has not met all the criteria he set.
"That is clearly an option on the table," Mr. Clinton said, referring to the withdrawal of most-favored nation status. "It would be a bad thing" for China.
Mr. Clinton said China had made "significant overall progress" in satisfying some of his criteria, relating to immigration and prison labor, but had not satisfied all the criteria.
President Clinton said he was not telling "a great nation like China" how to treat its citizens or to conduct its internal affairs. But he said, "Human rights is very important to the United States."
Mr. Clinton seemed deeply affected by a question posed by a Ugandan reporter about when the United States should intervene abroad to save lives.
Mr. Clinton said the first lesson was that the United States could not intervene in a country under the illusion that it was a humanitarian mission that can be dealt with quickly. The people in Somalia were starving, he said, not because there was shortage of food, but rather because the food could not be distributed because of military and political factors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton listening to Christiane Amanpour of Cable News Network challenge him over Bosnia. (CNN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN) CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); HISTORY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (93%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



81 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Two giant pharmaceutical makers took aggressive steps to help them compete in the rapidly changing market for prescription drugs. SmithKline Beecham is buying Diversified Pharmaceutical Services, a discount drug marketer, for $2.3 billion. And Pfizer is creating a managed health care unit with Value Health. [Page D1.]
Kodak will sell off noncore businesses like its Sterling Winthrop drug unit and concentrate on its photography operations. [D1.]
Nynex and Times Mirror formed a joint venture to offer electronic shopping services in the New York City area. [D1.]
Electronic Arts and Broderbund called off the planned merger between the two software makers. [D5.]
Kemper will consider putting itself up for sale if its stock does not rise by at least 13 percent in the next year. [D5.]
What amounts to a real estate merchant bank was formed by Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. [D5.]
Junior bondholders of R. H. Macy oppose two competing reorganization proposals. [D6.]
I.B.M. won an unusual endorsement from China for its PowerPC chip technology. [D8.]
Viacom is exploring the sale of Madison Square Garden. [D20.]
NBC will receive $2.5 million from a foundation to broadcast a special program on health care. [A1.]
A Federal appeals panel, reversing its own opinion, threw out an author's libel suit against The New York Times. [A21.]
 
The Economy
Top business executives have contradictory feelings about the Federal Reserve's recent interest rate increases, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows. On one hand, a majority praised the Fed's efforts to control inflation. But a majority also expressed alarm that the rising rates could hurt their sales. [D1.] Members of Congress engaged in partisan wrangling over rising rates. [D2.]
The Government's economic forecasting gauge jumped 0.7 percent in March. [D1.]
 
International
Ecuador and its creditor banks have reached a foreign debt agreement that will restructure the country's payments on $7.6 billion in debt and overdue interest over the next 30 years. [D15.]
 
Business Technology
New York City is looking at a waste-disposal technology that a small Italian concern is promoting in Europe and the United States. The process involves shredding garbage, heating it and pressing it into ice-cube-sized bricks, and then steaming the bricks until they emit a gas that can be burned to make electricity. [D7.]
 
Markets
Stock prices were mixed, with blue chips advancing as a result of late computerized buying. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 13.39 points, to close at 3,714.41. [D8.]
Treasury prices declined and interest rates rose after a Government report pointed to economic strength. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond rose to 7.35 percent. [D16.]
The dollar continued to fall as traders questioned the Clinton Administration's commitment to defending it. [D18.]
Coffee prices sprinted to a 2 1/2-year high amid continuing concerns about tight supplies. [D18.]
 
Today's Columns
Investors in Media Vision Technology learned that it is sometimes risky to believe a profit number before the auditors get through with the books. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
Bartle Bogle Hegarty of London is gambling that it can grow rapidly by helping American marketers explain what makes themselves specially American. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); M (NYSE) (83%); EA (NASDAQ) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (69%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (69%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (90%); MACY'S INC (83%); HM CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (69%); DIVERSIFIED PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES INC (58%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); VIACOM INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); MERGERS (76%); MERCHANT BANKING (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (70%); LITIGATION (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INFLATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LIBEL & SLANDER (65%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



82 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

COURT BACKS MILITARY RECRUITING BANS
New York's Court of Appeals became the first top state court to rule that school boards can ban military recruiters from their schools because of the Pentagon's policy of discrimination against homosexuals. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
GIULIANI REFUSES MONEY FOR SCHOOLS 
 Mayor Giuliani refused to give the schools system an extra $4.2 billion that Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines said he needs to build new schools to relieve overcrowding. A1.
AMMUNITION FOR INCINERATOR OPPONENTS
Residents and officials who fought city plans to build new trash incinerators believe they now have overwhelming ammunition: a strong economic argument. B2.
MAYOR STEPS INTO REPUBLICAN POLITICS
Mayor Giuliani made his first foray into national Republican politics, supporting a former United States Attorney in a primary battle for the gubernatorial nomination in Rhode Island. B2.
UNKNOWN'S PAINTING JOINS THE GREATS
A 33-year-old artist said that he hung his own 11-by-14-inch painting at the Museum of Modern Art, and that the museum did not realize that it had acquired the work for nearly 48 hours. B3.
NEW QUESTIONS ARISE IN DEATH OF S.I. MAN
An ambulance driver told officials investigating the death of a Staten Island man in police custody said that he tried to attend to the man as he lay bleeding, only to be told by police officers to "stay away," two investigators said. B3.
MURDER CHARGE IS REJECTED
A grand jury refused to go along with Brooklyn prosecutors who charged five teen-agers with murder after a police officer died in a car crash while responding to a mugging that the youths allegedly committed. B4.
TEEN-AGER TELLS OF KILLING IN PARK
In a videotape played in a Brooklyn courtroom, a 17-year-old gave his version of how a man was shot to death while riding a bicycle through Prospect Park last June. B5.
 
New York City ticket brokers have been subpoenaed in a price gouging investigation. Arts. C20.
 
REGION
 
RUNWAY IN CRASH WAS CRITICIZED
Two months before the crash of a charter plane that killed eight people, a consultant proposed extending the runway where the crash occurred and eliminating a fence that the plane hit. B6.
WITNESS DISPUTES INSANITY CLAIM
The prosecution in the Joel Rifkin murder trial called its star witness to rebut the defense claim that he is not guilty by reason of insanity. B6.
U.S. TO PUT PAY CENTER AT FORMER AIR BASE
In a move to take the sting off the closing of military operations at Griffis Air Force Base, the Clinton Administration has decided to put a Pentagon payroll and accounting office there. B6.
CONNECTICUT SCHOOL PLAN DIES
An ambitious plan to remake Connecticut's public schools has died in the Legislature. Education. B8.
 
Karen S. Burstein, a former Brooklyn judge, announced she will run for Attorney General. B6.
 
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman B3

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: New Car Registrations" New York, New Jersey and Connecticut new car registrations from 1993 through 1994. (Source: R. L. Polk & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); MURDER (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MILITARY RECRUITING (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); INSANITY DEFENSE (88%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (86%); APPEALS COURTS (79%); SUBPOENAS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); LAWYERS (75%); SHOOTINGS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); PAINTING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (71%); GRAND JURY (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (70%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (69%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (65%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (61%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



83 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Embargo Seen As Insufficient For the Return Of Aristide

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, May 3

 BODY:
Even as the Clinton Administration has begun to push for broader United Nations sanctions against Haiti, many diplomats and Haitian analysts say that the effort will prove too little too late to restore the elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
The analysts say that since October, when an international effort to restore Father Aristide collapsed amid a violent army-sponsored campaign of defiance, the Haitian military's hold on the country has grown steadily stronger. 
 Taking advantage of a porous border with the Dominican Republic, diplomats here say the army has circumvented sanctions that were intended to prohibit arms and petroleum supplies and has managing to stockpile large amounts of gasoline. At the same time, the military has completed long-needed repairs on the country's sole hydroelectric dam, and in recent days power has returned to the capital after months with little electricity.
 
Sanctions May Be Ignored
 Diplomats say that the proposed new sanctions, which would prohibit nearly all trade with Haiti, had little prospect of being respected by the Dominican Republic, whose army and political elite have close ties to the Haitian military and hostility toward Father Aristide.
Another weakness in the proposed sanctions, the diplomats say, is that there is no provision to end commercial air traffic with Haiti. Many Haitian businessmen fly in and out of the country to continue to conduct their affairs from abroad and to maintain minimum stocks of vital goods and spare parts in the country.
"I believe the military here is sitting on a substantial amount of fuel, so they will still be able to operate," said one diplomat who was critical of the new policy. "It seems the whole thing is based on the idea that there would be some kind of popular uprising, but the very reason we are seeing so much repression is to prevent that from happening. The army has already shown that they have no qualms when it comes to the suffering of the Haitian people."
While the army is expected to continue to make large profits by managing its lucrative trade in black-market petroleum products, relief officials have warned that a reinforcement of the embargo would risk a grave deterioration in the quality of life of poor Haitians who have already suffered from more than two years of intermittent sanctions and international isolation.
 
Conditions Said to Worsen
 An appraisal of conditions in Haiti performed in March by the United States Agency for International Development found that "overall, the nutritional status of children has worsened since March 1993 in every region but the south."
The report added that although all forms of malnutrition in Haiti had declined slightly, severe malnutrition was at the highest level in several years. CARE, the relief organization that now feeds about 477,000 Haitians daily, said in a recent report that the country is deteriorating daily.
"These people have sold off the last goat, the last pig," said Bill Novelli of CARE. "The embargo didn't cause all of this, but it has made it a lot worse."
The prospect of tightened sanctions, which has caused alarm even among some groups in Haiti that support Father Aristide, has caused many relief experts to fear a resurgence in the number of Haitians seeking to flee their country by boat.
Even if the new sanctions were to be quickly passed by the United Nations Security Council, diplomats here say that the military's stockpiling will mean that it could be weeks or months before they would have any effect on the Haitian Army.
Diplomats say that if no breakthrough can be reached before the fall, when the Haitian National Assembly's mandate expires, the military will be left as the only institution remaining in the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; HAITI (99%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (85%); MALNUTRITION (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (68%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (68%); NUTRITION (60%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



84 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Opposition by Suburban Parents Dooms Connecticut School Proposal

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 3

 BODY:
An ambitious plan to remake Connecticut's public schools has died in the Legislature, a target of resistance from teachers and vigorous opposition from some parents. But its fate seemed most rooted in the failure of its advocates to convince the public, particularly suburban parents, that sweeping change was needed.
The plan was similar to proposals being considered in more than 30 states. It called for raising academic achievement by setting high standards for what children should learn and then testing to make sure they did so. Teachers, in turn, would focus less on grading children and more on helping all children meet those standards. The stated goal was a "fundamental restructuring" of public education. 
 
 
If It Ain't Broke. . . .
 In Connecticut, the Commission on Educational Excellence worked for 18 months to draft the plan, which it promoted in outline at hearings around the state. But to suburban parents looking at their schools and their children, the argument of business, education and political leaders that the state's schools are failing, putting at risk everyone's economic future, was never compelling. The plan's natural allies, the parents of city children, were rarely heard from.
Distrustful of the education establishment after 30 years of school revampings, many parents listened instead to critics who attacked the plan as an unnecessary, costly experiment that would drag all schools down to mediocrity. In the end, in a state whose own innovations have become the basis of reform plans elsewhere, legislators facing elections this fall did not even want to debate the proposal. They saw no point in commiting themselves publicly on a plan that all agreed was doomed.
"I really thought people in this state wanted school reform, but they don't," said State Representative Nancy Wyman, a co-chairwoman of the Legislature's Education Committee. "What we see is people saying, 'Our schools are good, it's the other schools that aren't, so why should we be bothered?'
"When you have people who see their kids going on to good colleges, they say it's hogwash."
 
A National Consensus
 The Connecticut plan, however, closely follows an unusually broad national consensus among educators and business leaders on what should be done with the nation's schools. Its defeat here suggests that a gulf remains between the various aroused experts and parents worried about their neighborhood school.
According to Frank Newman, president of the Education Commission of the States in Denver, the public is no longer willing to accept unquestioningly educators who can't clearly explain what they are doing. The commission has advised many states on school-improvement strategies.
"The Connecticut proposals assume that much higher performance on the part of all students is necessary," Mr. Newman said. "I happen to believe that. But unless you make that point in a way people buy it, everything that follows doesn't make sense."
"It used to be that your goal, as a parent, was to make sure your kid did well," he said. "What was clear in Connecticut was that people didn't accept the idea that, as a citizen, you have to worry about all kids doing well."
Many people disagreed, dubious that the proposals would work anywhere. The organized opposition in Connecticut came from teacher unions, which objected that the plan would undercut tenure protection, and from a group of parents called the Committee to Save Our Schools, which quickly formed branches in 60 communities.
Legislators and business leaders said the unions, even with 40,000 members, were the smaller obstacle. A 1986 law aimed at improving schools had sharply raised their salaries, making them the highest in the country, and many legislators said they were now prepared to hold teachers more accountable.
 
'Outcome-Based' Plans
 Similar groups had sprung up in other states, attacking plans as "outcome-based education" schemes intended to take the control of schools away from local districts. The only possible outcome of setting one standard for all children, they said, would be to reduce the brightest to the level of the worst.
The commission knew that the opposition elsewhere came mainly from religious conservatives, who felt that it was intended to teach liberal values, and it felt confident because the Legislature, in ordering a commission to draft a plan, had specified "an outcome-based, world-class educational system." The plan's advocates thus decided to disregard the grass-roots opposition. The commission simply substituted "results" for "outcomes" throughout its report and denied it was considering an outcome-based system.
Representative Wyman and other advocates contend that opponents misrepresented their proposal, attaching to it a grab bag of discredited teaching techniques that the commission never considered.
But the opposition in Connecticut came not from religious fundamentalists, but from parents in Greenwich, Weston, Westport and other Fairfield County suburbs, home to some of the nation's finest public schools.
Ms. Wyman and others admit they never expected the overriding message of those opponents -- that no crisis existed in their communities, that the proposed strategy was experimental, and that the probable result would harm their schools -- would ring true for many parents.
The calls that most worried legislators, Ms. Wyman said, were from parents who said they didn't understand the proposal, were scared by what they had heard, and wanted it put off. "I think it was killed by concerned parents who didn't understand," she said.
 
For Separate Debates
 Kay Wall, the P.T.A. president at her son's elementary school in Old Greenwich and a leader of the opposition, said parents in communities with good schools had sound reasons to fear the untested plan, which in one 97-page piece of legislation addressed scores of issues.
A main tenet of the Connecticut plan, as in other states, is that all of its provisions must be adopted together, but Ms. Wall said there is no reason each issue can't be debated and adopted separately.
"There was never any local support for the bill, as it was explained," she said. "This has slowed the process down for reform that we think is necessary. This tried to do too much too fast."
Business leaders like Robert D. Kennedy, the chief executive of Union Carbide Corporation and a commission member, vowed to make a better case when they try again. "A lot of people are complacent," he said. "They don't see a straight line between the education level of our people and economic collapse."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); PARENTS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



85 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 2; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Cost of 4-Year Degree Passes $100,000 Mark

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
Several of the nation's leading colleges have broken the $100,000 barrier for a four-year degree.
Beginning this fall, Yale freshmen will pay $26,350 a year for tuition, fees, room and board, and Harvard students will pay only $120 less than that. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology is charging $26,075. Brown is $25,954. Swarthmore is $25,900, and Stanford is the cheapest of the costly at $25,465. 
 Swarthmore's vice president for business and finance, William T. Spock, echoed the feelings of many parents when he remarked, "I'm sure glad my kids are through with college."
College and university representatives said that this year's cost increases were made with great reluctance.
"We agonize over this every year," said Elizabeth Huidekoper, Harvard's budget director. "Obviously, the $25,000 mark has symbolic significance, but it wasn't a barrier. Any increase is carefully considered.
And Ms. Huidekoper, like other university representatives, was quick to point out that the numbers do not reflect the full story: many of their students -- 67 percent at Harvard and more than half at many others -- receive generous financial aid. At Cornell, for example, half of the students receive financial aid that averages about $10,000 a year.
Still, many students -- generally those who come from families with incomes above $100,000 -- are paying the full price. And many others have become part of a phenomenon known as "middle income melt." These students would almost certainly have gone to private colleges and universities if prices were lower, but today they are attending the much less expensive public institutions.
The cost of public institutions across the country is rising even more rapidly than that of the private ones, although of course the totals at the public colleges and universities are only a fraction of those at most private ones. The cost for in-state students last year (1994-95 figures have yet to be set by many state legislatures) range from $11,726 for the University of Vermont to $5,504 at the University of North Carolina.
The high cost of college has also greatly increased student borrowing. The United States Department of Education has yet to release figures, but a few institutions have issued reports on what some educators are calling the "borrowing blitz." For example, Stanford reports that students and their families borrowed $8 million in the first half of 1993-94. That is $2.5 million more than was borrowed in all of the 1992-93 year.
Charles H. Long, deputy provost of Yale, said colleges and universities found themselves in an inflationary trap.
"If you're in a business like ours in which most of your expenses are for personnel, and you also have to buy things like scholarly periodicals, library books and scientific equipment, which rise in cost at a rate higher than inflation," Mr. Long said, "you're not going to be able to hold your costs at below the rate of inflation."
Ronald G. Ehrenberg, a Cornell professor of industrial and labor relations who studies college costs, said the present annual tuition increases of many private institutions were up only 1 percent or 2 percent -- significantly lower than the 3 percent to 4 percent that these average costs climbed in the 1980's.
Asked about prospects for the future, Professor Ehrenberg said: "Take Cornell. It's now in the midst of a campaign to raise $1.2 billion, and it's close to reaching that goal. The question therefore is, Can Cornell, and similar institutions, sustain that level of fund raising in the years ahead? And are government research contracts going to continue at the present level? We just don't know."
 
Shifting Responsibility
 The reason for the increase in the cost of public institutions, which has been climbing at about three times the rate of inflation, educators say, is that for the past 15 years state governments have been steadily cutting back their support for higher education. As soon as those cutbacks began to take effect, state-supported colleges and universities throughout the country began to raise tuition to balance their budgets.
"The responsibility for paying for higher education is being shifted from taxpayers to students and their families," said Thomas G. Mortenson, a higher education policy analyst based in Iowa City. "We're heading toward a price-based admission policy where the people who can afford it will go to college and the others won't."
"In 1979," Mr. Mortenson continued, "a student whose family income was in the top quartile had a four times greater chance of earning a B.A. degree by the age of 24 than did a student in the lowest quartile. Today, that well-off student has a 19 times better chance."
Mr. Spock of Swarthmore said that the cost of faculty and staff was always the biggest expense faced by the committees that set tuition. "We can't raise tuition too fast," he said, "but have to raise it fast enough to keep these salaries competitive with those at other colleges and businesses. Our staff and faculty work extremely long hours and have very stressful jobs. We want to do everything we can to hold on to them."
 
'Lifetime Investment'
 Daniel S. Hamermesh, a professor of economics at the University of Texas who has just prepared a study of faculty salaries for the American Association of University Professors, said faculty salaries had been stagnant for the past four years, growing only 0.3 percent in real dollars last year.
On the other hand, Professor Hamermesh said, the number of administrators -- deputy provosts and assistant deans -- has been growing rapidly.
Professor Ehrenberg said much of this administrative growth included specialists in student services, student placement, auditing required to deal with new government regulations and fund raising.
Ms. Huidekoper of Harvard summed up the dilemma posed by rising college costs this way: "If you think of it as a lifetime investment, it's justified, but unfortunately most people don't look at it that way."

GRAPHIC: Graph: Average tuition fees at a four-year college and college cost as a percentage of national median income from 1988 to 1994. (Source: Consortium on Financing Higher Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (72%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); PRIVATE SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PARENTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



86 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Good Economic News Depresses Bond Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities declined yesterday, on the heels of a Government report that suggested the economy is likely to continue to grow in the months ahead.
The March index of leading indicators, the Government's gauge of economic activity in the next six to nine months, was up seven-tenths of 1 percent, slightly more than expected. The increase was aided by a large jump in the length of the average workweek, which had been held down in the February by frigid weather in much of the nation. 
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Business News had expected an increase of six-tenths of 1 percent in the index. The February index was revised to unchanged after being reported initially down one-tenth of a percent.
 
 
'Old Data'
 Analysts said Government bond traders did not run with the report since much of the data were already known. Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, called it "a repackaging of old data."
In late trading, The 30-year Treasury was down 6/32 of a point, to 8628/32 , for a yield of 7.35 percent, up from 7.33 percent Monday. Shorter-term bill rates rose on investor concern about another increase in short-term rates by the Federal Reserve.
The market's focus is now on next week's quarterly Treasury auction, Friday's March employment data and the approaching May 17 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the policy-making arm of the Fed.
Today, the Treasury is expected to announce the size of its quarterly refunding, with most participants looking for between $29 billion and $30 billion in new 3-year and 10-year notes. "I suppose anything outside those numbers would be a surprise," Mr. Fine said. "However, I wouldn't expect it to move the market even if it's a surprise."
 
 
Employment Forecast
 The forecast for the employment numbers range from an increase of 100,000 on the low end to a gain of 260,000 on the high end. "I'm looking for 220,000, higher than the market consensus of plus 170,000," Mr. Fine said.
James Hale, an analyst with MMS International, said the bond market yesterday repeated a pattern it had followed on and off for about two months. First prices trade up in a burst of short-covering but then gives it all back and then some. He added that the dollar's inability to rebound also dragged the bond market down.
Besides the worry of another short-term interest rate increase between now and the Fed's meeting May 17, Mr. Hale said that traders and investors were "concerned that a weaker dollar heading into the quarterly auction will result in a smaller-than-usual draw of foreign buyers and cause interest rates to move up as a result."
In the municipal bond market, California's sale of $400 million in general obligation bonds, the week's largest scheduled offering, was won by Prudential Securities. The bonds were reoffered for sale at a price that produced a maximum yield of 6.35 percent for a bond due in 2024.
 
 
Shorter Maturities
 For shorter maturities, yields on serial bonds range from 4.40 percent in 1996 to 5 percent in 2000; 5.55 percent for the 10-year bond due in 2004; 6.10 percent in 2010, and 6.25 percent in 2015. Other long maturities were priced to yield 6.27 percent in 2020 and 6.30 percent in 2018.
Underwriters said the bonds were rated double-A by Moody's Investors Service and Fitch, and A+ by Standard & Poor's -- except for securities due in 1998, 2000-01 and 2020, which are insured by either the Ambac Indemnity Corporation or the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company. The insurance gives those bonds a triple-A rating by the rating agencies.
As a sign of how much the market has sold off in the last month, similarly rated new 10-year bonds from the State of Washington were priced last week to yield 5.35 percent.
Elsewhere, holders of Denver International Airport bonds -- concerned about a possible downgrading of the credit ratings of the airport's $3.2 billion in outstanding debt -- got a clue from S.& P. The rating agency said yesterday that it would meet with Denver city officials next week before deciding what to do about the credit rating on the bonds. On Monday, Denver announced an indefinite delay in the opening of the airport.
Depending on how that meeting goes, "the airport's rating could be lowered, possibly to a noninvestment- grade level shortly thereafter," Ernie Perez, an S.& P. analyst, said.
Prices of the airport bonds tumbled more than a point on Monday after Denver officials announced the delay because of a computerized baggage system that does not work. In trading yesterday, the price of the bonds bounced back about a half-point, to 90.125, to yield 7.60 percent, down from 7.65 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); US DOLLAR (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (70%); JAMES HALE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



87 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Incinerator Opponents See Victory in High Court Ruling

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
Residents and officials who have spent more than a decade waging legal and political warfare against New York City's plans to build new trash incinerators believe they now have some overwhelming ammunition: a convincing economic argument.
Opponents of incineration said yesterday that a Supreme Court decision on Monday requiring that the ash generated by incinerators be subject to strict hazardous-waste standards would make the costs of incineration prohibitive. They argued that the costs -- for testing as well as possible special storage -- could well doom the planned $450 million Brooklyn Navy Yard incinerator, as well as a proposal to reopen an incinerator in southwest Brooklyn. 
 "There is zero economic argument left for going ahead with plans for either the Brooklyn Navy Yard incinerator or the southwest Brooklyn project," said Kenneth K. Fisher, a City Councilman from Williamsburg, Brooklyn. "It's a serious blow to the project that pushes incineration that much closer to going over the edge of oblivion. And I don't see why the Mayor would fight to keep it from going over the edge."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday, however, that he had reached no conclusion about the implications of the Supreme Court ruling. He conceded that it was likely to raise the costs of incineration, but he said he had yet to determine by how much and whether it would be too much to consider going forward with the construction of the incinerators.
Kevin Stickney, a spokesman for Wheelabrator Environmental Systems, the company under contract to build the Brooklyn Navy Yard incinerator, insisted that the ruling would not have "a substantial effect on this company at all."
He said Wheelabrator had already developed a system for treating the ash generated by its incinerators, and that it could handle treating the full output of the Navy Yard plant without a significant increase in costs.
Anne Canty, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Sanitation, said the department was reviewing how the ruling would affect the Greenpoint incinerator currently operating and sending its ash to the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island. The plant is scheduled to shut in June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) WHEELABRATOR ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INCINERATORS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; ASH DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NAVIES (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); APPEALS (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



88 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1847 words

HEADLINE: Executives Are Contented but . . .

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
With their sales rising smartly, a majority of America's top executives are far more sanguine about the economy than the general public is, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
But many executives also have a complaint: they can't get the price increases that many say are needed to keep their businesses thriving. The executives favor, in effect, a bit more inflation -- for their industries, at least -- than the current mild national level. 
 And that produced contradictory responses to two questions in the poll. Fifty-five percent of the 484 senior executives surveyed last week praised the Federal Reserve for pushing up interest rates in recent months as a precaution against future inflation. But 56 percent expressed alarm that the rising rates could hurt their sales.
 
Conflicting Attitudes

 
 "I appreciate that the Federal Reserve is a guardian against inflation," said Robert W. Cardy, president of the Carpenter Technology Corporation, a steel company in Reading, Pa. "But I also must say that the higher rates have increased the installment payments on our loans and they inhibit our customers. I know that I am giving a double answer here."
Despite the concerns about the prospect of higher interest rates, the executives who responded to the survey -- all top officers at companies representing a cross section of American industry -- were clearly optimistic. Eighty-seven percent of them rated business at their own companies as "very good" or "fairly good." Eighty-two percent gave the same ratings to the national economy. And 51 percent said the economy would continue to improve.
A Times/CBS News Poll earlier last month surveyed the public on these same two questions about the economy. In each case, the public trailed the executives in optimism by at least 25 percentage points. The difference might reflect the fact that while sales and profits are rising, pleasing the executives, hiring is increasing only slowly and wages are rising hardly at all, which is not so pleasing for the labor force, though it is a plus to business.
Sales are certainly booming at Automatic Systems Inc. in Kansas City, Mo., a manufacturer of assembly-line equipment, particularly for auto companies. "There is more work in my field today than in the 34 years that I have been in this business," Robert A. Hoehn, president of the company, said. That translates into more jobs -- up to a point.
While sales rose to $85 million last year from $75 million in 1992 and are likely to break $100 million this year, Automatic Systems is adding just 40 people this year, bringing its permanent staff back only to its 1991 level of 310 people. Mr. Hoehn said he would not go above 310 people or bid up wages to get skilled workers, although they are sometimes hard to find. The standard raise at Automatic Systems keeps wages roughly abreast of inflation. The pay is $12 an hour for production workers.
"We don't have enough confidence in the future to hire more people," Mr. Hoehn said. "From what our customers are telling us, 1995 and 1996 should also be good years. But I can't see the strength lasting beyond that."
Responses to the poll suggested that Mr. Hoehn's labor strategy was a common one. Fifty-one percent of the executives said their companies would keep employment levels unchanged over the next 12 months, although 63 percent said they would add workers over the next five years. In addition, 63 percent said that most of the jobs created at their companies in recent years had not been "high quality," by which they meant the jobs had not been high wage.
 
No Plans for Hiring

 
 "We will probably hold our employment at where it is now, which is 750 people," said Paul Wheeler, senior vice president of the Inland Group Inc., a Chicago company that buys and sells commercial real estate and owns and rents or leases more than 20,000 apartments and stores. Most of the employees are rental agents and maintenance personnel earning less than $25,000 a year.
Mr. Hoehn, Mr. Wheeler and Mr. Cardy were among various executives representing companies of different sizes and different industries who were interviewed after they had participated in the poll. Like most of the others, the three men tied the upturn in their businesses to the decline in interest rates through most of last year. The low rates gave a lift to the economy in several crucial ways.
Millions of people refinanced mortgages and their lower monthly payments gave them extra cash for spending. The lower rates also produced a boom in auto and truck sales, most of them on credit, and more business for the thousands of companies that supply this industry, including Mr. Hoehn's and Mr. Cardy's. In addition, the low rates helped housing and real estate, by lowering mortgage rates -- and also the rates on the Inland Group's $500 million in loans outstanding to finance its real estate operations.
"When the cost of financing goes up," Mr. Wheeler said, "we have to add that to rents or to the prices of real estate we sell. It is too soon to say whether the higher rates have hurt our business, but maybe they have."
 
Some Reservations About Policy

 
 Since February, the Federal Reserve has pushed rates up to slow the business revival and thus prevent inflationary price increases. But Mr. Hoehn, Mr. Cardy, Mr. Wheeler and others say the Fed may be acting too far ahead of the potential danger.
"The Fed is trying to stop inflation that is not here yet, but will come six to eight months down the road," Mr. Hoehn said. "That is a laudable goal, but it is crystal ball reading that we are not capable of. Maybe the Fed isn't either."
Just as there was ambivalence about the Federal Reserve, there was ambivalence among the executives -- many of them Republicans -- about the Clinton Administration. While only 27 percent approved of the President's handling of the economy, 67 percent said the Administration's policies had not had much of an impact on their companies, one way or another. By comparison, 43 percent of the 1,215 people polled in the survey of the public approved of the President's handling of the economy.
"I just don't feel a confidence in this man; I don't see a pilot in the pilot seat," said Louis E. Lavoie, president of Northeast Knitting Inc., a Providence, R.I., company that makes elastic waist bands that are sewn into clothing.
Still, Mr. Lavoie, who voted for George Bush, says that rising interest rates are a bigger problem for him than President Clinton is. His borrowing costs are up, he says, although they have not climbed enough yet to hurt; others share this view.
The Fed, however, pushed up rates just when some of the companies were hoping that the expanding economy might allow them to raise prices. Instead, 58 percent of the executives said they would hold prices steady over the next year, while 35 percent anticipated increases.
 
Outlook for Expansion

 
 Higher prices would bring fatter profits without having to rely so heavily on cutting costs, the executives said. And the higher prices might make possible a sufficient return on investment to justify greater spending to expand operations. Forty-nine percent of the executives said their companies would expand capacity over the next 12 months.
Andritz-Ruthner, an Austrian company with a factory in Arlington, Tex., has expanded. It makes equipment for waste-water treatment and to finish steel surfaces, both products in rising demand. "We expanded capacity a nudge at the start of the year, adding people and equipment, but not space, to increase the output by 10 percent," said Tim Ryan, the president. "Now we have stopped. We want to be sure that in 1996 we still have enough business; you make a big investment like that and you don't want to have to cut back."
 
Hoping for Higher Prices

 
 Andritz-Ruthner has been squeezing greater profit from rising sales volume and some cost-cutting, Mr. Ryan said. To sustain the profit and justify more investment, he says, there must be price increases.
"We can't get them," he said. "On both the environmental and steel side, there is a bunch of hungry competition. The steel competition is global -- a German company, an Italian company, anyone and everyone. On the waste-water side, the competition is mostly American, but here, too, there is plenty of supply. We see new companies pop up all the time. They think this is a hot button."
What would justify a major expansion? "Another $10 million a year in revenue for at least three years," Mr. Ryan said. That would bring current sales revenue to $60 million and would justify a $3.5 million investment to expand, raising employment in the process to 150 from the present 125. Rising interest rates endanger Mr. Ryan's goal, if they slow the economy, making price increases and greater sales revenue that much harder to get.
"I would have liked to see the Federal Reserve handle things differently," Mr. Ryan said, without being specific. "But rates will have to go up another couple of percentage points before they become a problem."
 
How the Poll Was Conducted

 
 The New York Times/CBS News Poll of business executives was based on interviews with 484 senior executives at companies throughout the United States, interviewed by telephone from April 15 to April 29.
The sample of companies and executives was randomly drawn by Dun & Bradstreet Information Services from listings in its data base of privately held and publicly owned companies.
Companies with $5 million or more in annual revenues were eligible for the section of the survey dealing with the economy. At each company one executive at a senior level was interviewed. Titles of those eligible to be polled included owner, partner, chief executive, president, chairman, executive vice president and senior vice president, with first opportunity for an interview given to the most senior executive.
The completed sample included 248 interviews in companies with $5 million to $99 million in annual revenue, 121 interviews in companies with $100 million to $499 million, and 115 interviews in companies with revenues of $500 million or more. The completed sample was then weighted by revenue size to reflect the actual distribution of all listed companies in the country, because smaller companies predominate.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, results based on such samples will differ by no more than six percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out senior executives at all listed companies in the country with annual revenues of $5 million or more.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for the biggest companies, those with $500 million or more in annual revenue, it is plus or minus nine percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey can introduce other sources of error. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Louis E. Lavoie, President, Northeast Knitting -- Asked about President Clinton's performance, he said, "I just don't feel a confidence in this man; I don't see a pilot in the pilot seat." (Michael Quan for The New York Times); Robert W. Cardy, President, Carpenter Technology -- "The Federal Reserve is a guardian against inflation. But I also must say that the higher rates have increased the installment payments on our loans." (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)
 
Chart: The New York Times/CBS News Poll
U.S. Business Executives' View on Job Creation
Over the next twelve months, the executive's company plans to:
Total:
Increase jobs: 36%
Decrease Jobs: 12%
Hold steady: 51%
 
Large companies:
Increase jobs: 23%
Decrease Jobs: 30%
Hold steady: 45%
 
Medium companies:
Increase jobs: 44%
Decrease Jobs: 16%
Hold steady: 40%
 
 
Small companies:
Increase jobs: 35%
Decrease Jobs: 12%
Hold steady: 51%
 
In five years, the executive's company will have:
 
Total:
More employees: 63%
Fewer employees: 13%
About the same: 19%
 
Large companies:
More employees: 57%
Fewer employees: 23%
About the same: 19%

Medium companies:
More employees: 66%
Fewer employees: 17%
About the same: 16%
 
Small companies:
More employees: 63%
Fewer employees: 13%
About the same: 19%
 
Have most new jobs created in the past few years been high quality?
Yes: 27%
No: 63%
No answer: 9%
 
(Based on telephone interviews conducted with 484 business executives Apr. 15-29. Large companies are those with annual sales over $500 million. Medium-sized companies have annual sales between $100 and $499.9 million. Small companies have annual sales between $5 and $99.9 million. (pg D1)
 
Executives' View on the Fed and the Administration
 
Do you approve of the way the Federal Reserve Board is handling interest rates?
Approve: 55%
Disapprove: 39
No answer: 5%
 
How will recent increases in interest rates affect your company's business?
Help: 4%
Hurt: 56%
No effect: 38%
No answer: 2%
 
How has the Clinton administration has been for your company's business, so far?
Good: 5%
Bad: 27%
No difference: 67%
No answer: 1%
 
(Based on telephone interviews with 484 business executives conducted Apr. 15-19.) (pg. D19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CRS (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332811 METAL HEAT TREATING (69%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3398 METAL HEAT TREATING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (76%); READING, PA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL CARPENTER TECHNOLOGY CORP (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (76%); READING, PA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; CORPORATIONS; PRICES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



89 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Index of Leading Indicators Advanced by 0.7% in March

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3

 BODY:
In a sharp rebound from the effects of winter storms, the Government's chief economic forecasting gauge jumped by seven-tenths of 1 percent in March, the eighth consecutive month without a decline.
Though today's Commerce Department report was in line with expectations, economists said the rise in the index of leading indicators provided reassurance after last week's report that the economy had grown at a somewhat disappointing pace of 2.6 percent during the first quarter of the year. 
 "It shows that things are still alive and well," said Raymond A. Worseck, chief economist for A. G. Edwards & Sons, a brokerage house in St. Louis. "The pattern shows broad growth," he added, typical of this point in the business cycle, when expansion is well established.
 But others pointed to what they considered somewhat unnerving signs of a slowdown and faster inflation.
More than half the March advance was accounted for by a huge jump in the length of the average factory workweek that more than offset a big decline in February caused by exceptionally harsh winter weather. At 42.2 hours, the workweek is at the highest level since World War II.
The second-biggest contributor to the rise in the index was higher prices for materials especially sensitive to the level of business activity. This component, taken partly from the Labor Department's indexes of producer prices and partly from direct gauges of the spot market, has climbed four consecutive months, with each increase bigger than its predecessor.
 That indicated more rapid inflation ahead, said Russell G. Redenbaugh of Kairos Inc., a financial management strategy concern in Philadelphia, a prospect that could help sustain a slackening economy as consumers buy in anticipation of still higher prices. Mr. Redenbaugh noted price increases announced this week by the Ford Motor Company.
Seven other components also helped push the index higher, but none was decisive. They were a rise in building permits, lower first-time claims for unemployment benefits, a smaller decline in factory backlogs for durable goods, a rise in new factory orders, higher orders for plant and equipment, a rise in consumer expectations and an enlarged money supply.
The only restraining forces were vendor performance -- a smaller proportion of companies reported slower deliveries from suppliers -- and stock prices, which declined by 1.6 percent in March as gauged by the Standard & Poor's Corporation's 500-stock index.
One sign the economy may be slowing is that the leading index, though at a record high, rose by 1.1 percent in the first quarter, a bit less than its gain of 1.3 percent in the final three months of 1993.
 
 
'A Decent Clip'
 "We're still coasting at a decent clip," said Carl Palash of MCM Money Watch, a New York market advisory firm, "but the foot's off the accelerator."
A wide variety of analysts continued to predict that the Federal Reserve would decide at its meeting on May 17 to raise short-term interest rates again, with some saying the case was bolstered by the report today.
David Bostian, a New York economist, said the very long workweek and higher sensitive materials prices "probably could be read as justification to support the hawkish view" against inflation. Mr. Bostian constructs his own predictive index for the economy, which this month was unchanged.
Companion Commerce Department indexes on coincident and lagging economic indicators were mixed in March. The coincident index, gauging current conditions, rose by four-tenths of 1 percent after a gain of seven-tenths of 1 percent in February and a decline of three-tenths of 1 percent in January.
The lagging index, composed of indicators that usually turn after the economy overall does, edged down by one-tenth of 1 percent in March after falling four-tenths of 1 percent in February and rising three-tenths of 1 percent in January.
 
 
Ratio Cited
 The ratio of the coincident to the lagging index -- regarded by many as a better predictor than the leading index -- rose to 116.8 in March from 116.1 in February and 114.8 in January.
Another private forecasting index, compiled by Safian Investment Research in White Plains, rose by nine-tenths of 1 percent in March, to 206.81. Of its 24 components, 14 rose and 10 fell.
The index still points to business expansion, according to Kenneth Safian, but the severe winter has clouded projections. "While there are no indications that a slowdown is developing," he said, "some individual series and the changed monetary policy point to a reduced pace of growth later this year."

GRAPHIC: Chart of leading 11 economy indicators for period Oct. 1992 to March 1994 (Source: Commerce Dept.) (pg. D16)
Chart of leading indicators and their net weighted contribution to index change for period Dec. 1993 to Jan. 1994 (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (pg. D16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (62%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FORD MOTOR CO (83%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (62%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; PRICES; LABOR; WORKING HOURS ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); SPOT MARKET (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (61%); WORLD WAR II (51%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



90 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Continues Its Decline Against Yen and the Mark

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar continued to fall against the Japanese yen and the German mark yesterday as traders questioned the Clinton Administration's commitment to defending it.
The doubts were heightened as traders said they could find no evidence that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was buying the dollar to support it. 
 On Friday, the Fed, which acts as the Treasury's agent in the foreign exchange markets, bought dollars for marks and yen when the dollar fell against both currencies. Traders were looking for similar intervention yesterday as proof that the Administration was determined to put a floor under the dollar.
"People don't think the Fed is serious about defending the dollar," said Chris Iggo, international economist at Chase Manhattan Bank. "As long as it's orderly, the Fed seems willing to let the dollar fall."
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar fell to 101.00 yen, from 101.67 yen on Monday, less than one yen away from its post-World War II low of 100.35 yen set in August.
The dollar also tumbled to 1.6370 marks, from 1.6491 on Monday. It traded as low as 1.6358 marks, its lowest point since Oct. 20.
Mr. Iggo and others suspect that the Fed will only buy dollars again if stock and bond markets go into a tailspin. Bond prices have fallen for four straight trading sessions amid concern that a weak dollar will diminish the value of American assets and fuel inflation by making imports more expensive.
Unless the Fed takes further action, the dollar is likely to suffer as more traders lose faith in it. "There's real anti-dollar sentiment out there right now," said Dave Glowacki, senior trader at NBD Bank in Detroit. "No one wants to buy it."
Many traders are abandoning the dollar because it failed to rally in the first four months of the year, even though German interest rates fell and American interest rates rose. Higher American rates usually make dollar-denominated assets more attractive. Instead, the dollar has fallen 5 percent against the mark and 9 percent against the yen since Jan. 1.
The dollar's decline accelerated yesterday after Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen again urged Japan to reduce its trade surplus with the United States. In a speech, he said Tokyo's new Government should cut taxes to raise consumer spending and increase Japan's appetite for foreign goods.
"Bentsen's tough talk on Japan indicates that the Administration isn't going to defend a certain exchange rate," said Amy Smith, currency-market strategist at IDEA, a consulting firm. "Bashing Japan and supporting the dollar are incompatible."
For more than a year now, the dollar has usually weakened every time the United States has put pressure on Japan over trade policy, as traders bet that the Administration would resume calls for a strong yen to make American exports cheaper and Japanese imports more expensive.
Signs of strength in the German economy also weighed on the dollar yesterday. With stronger growth, the Bundesbank will be under less pressure to cut interest rates.
"The dollar is a hot potato right now," said David Durst, a trader at Bear, Stearns & Company. "People buy it, lose a little money, and get rid of it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



91 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Pact Is Reached on Ecuador's Foreign Debt

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Ecuador and its creditor banks have reached a landmark foreign debt agreement that will restructure the country's payments on $7.6 billion in debt and overdue interest over the next 30 years.
The agreement, which was reached late Monday night, allows the banks to swap their old loans for more secure bonds while Ecuador will get a 45 percent reduction in the total amount of debt it owes. In addition, the agreement will let the South American nation rejoin international financial markets fully for the first time since it halted debt payments in May 1992. 
 Ecuador is the second Latin American country to come to a debt agreement with its banks in the last several weeks. Last month, Brazil, the developing world's largest debtor nation, signed an agreement with its banks. The Brazil deal basically closed the door on the debt crisis of the 1980's, which began with Mexico's default on its debt payments in 1982.
 
 
Brady Plan
 Both these deals, as were those reached earlier for countries like Mexico and Argentina, were done through the debt reduction plan originated by the former United States Treasury Secretary, Nicholas F. Brady. The plan allows creditors swap debt for open-market bonds at a discount.
Expectations that the agreement was imminent have helped raise prices for Ecuadorean debt on the secondary debt market in New York and London for over a week.
The two sides announced the agreement as support for the free-market economic reforms of Ecuador's President, Sixto Duran Ballen, has been slipping badly.
The ruling party lost all but 10 of its 37 seats in Congress in congressional elections Sunday, which opposition parties took as a public rejection of the Government's economic policies.
"After 12 years of debt crisis and several years of difficult negotiations, this agreement will normalize the country's relations with its private creditors," Ecuador's Finance Minister, Cesar Robalino, said in a statement issued in New York.
 
 
U.S. Bonds as Collateral
 Under the pact, creditors will be allowed to swap the principal amount of their loans to Ecuador for either discount bonds or par bonds, both dollar-denominated and both with 30-year United States Treasury bonds as collateral.
The discount bonds will be exchanged for existing loans at a discount of 45 percent from the face value of the debt. The par bonds, which are are swapped at face value, will have discounts on the interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); UNITED STATES TREASURY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TREASURY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; ECUADOR (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FINANCES EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); POLITICS (69%); ELECTIONS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SIXTO DURAN BALLEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



92 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Split Over Rate Rises

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3

 BODY:
Members of Congress engaged in partisan wrangling over rising interest rates today, with Democrats warning that they could threaten economic growth while a prominent Republican called for further increases.
The flurry of comments on monetary policy followed the release this morning of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee's annual report on the state of the economy. Both the Democratic and Republican portions of the report concluded that higher interest rates were a big threat to the economy, but only the Democrats explicitly blamed the Federal Reserve for the recent increases in rates. 
 "The interaction of financial leverage with interest-rate increases by the Fed may be the single biggest danger to continued economic recovery," the Democratic section of the report said.
Representative Richard K. Armey, a Texas Republican who is on the committee, called at a news conference today for the Fed to continue to reduce growth in the nation's money supply, which means raising short-term interest rates. Further tightening of monetary policy is needed to reassure the public that inflation is under control, he said.
Mr. Armey drew a distinction between short-term rates, which the Fed controls, and long-term rates, which the Fed does not control. Long-term rates are rising because Americans are increasingly worried about inflation, not because the Fed has raised short-term rates three times this year, Mr. Armey said.
"The Fed's duty is to make the American people comfortable with a stable currency," Mr. Armey said.
Three times recently -- Feb. 4, March 22 and April 18 -- the Federal Reserve has raised the rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans, by a quarter of a percentage point each time.
Most private economists say raising short-term rates tends to hold down long-term rates, but seldom immediately. Long-term interest rates for bonds and mortgages have jumped by more than a percentage point since the Fed began raising short-term rates in February.
Two of Mr. Armey's Republican colleagues on the Joint Economic Committee, Representative H. James Saxton of New Jersey and Representative Christopher Cox of California, were more cautious, saying politicians should leave monetary policy to the Fed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM TEXAS REPUBLICAN (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (79%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); CURRENCIES (72%); 

PERSON: ARMEY, RICHARD K (REPR); BRADSHER, KEITH JIM SAXTON (58%); CHRISTOPHER COX (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



93 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Clinic Entices Patients With $10 a Visit

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
THE Prudential Health Care Plan, which provides health care to 45,000 Medicaid recipients in Baltimore, has undertaken an innovative incentive program to encourage poor, pregnant women to see a doctor and to attend sessions on nutrition, smoking and substance abuse. Every time a woman in its Medicaid program shows up for an appointment, she gets a $10 bill on the spot.
Since beginning the program in 1991, Prudential has seen a sharp increase in the number of pregnant women visiting its clinics and a decline in the average length of stay in newborn intensive care units. 
 Prudential considers the program an unqualified success. It now serves 1,500 women a year, giving out $6,000 a month in incentives. But some question whether it is sending the right message. Is it really better to pay people to take care of themselves than to plead with them? Do the ends justify the means?
 
Jump in Keeping Appointments
 Before the incentives started, just 40 percent of women who made appointments for prenatal visits showed up in the doctor's office, said Patricia Ann La Belle, who oversees the health program, which is owned by the Prudential Insurance Company of America. And, she added, of those who did go, "most were coming in in the second trimester or late in the third trimester; at that point, you have lost the battle."
Now, she said, 80 to 90 percent of women keep their appointments. Even among teen-agers, 60 percent of the women are visiting the clinics in their first trimester, up from 20 percent.
The length of stay in the newborn intensive care unit has dropped from four to six weeks a few years ago to three to four weeks today. Although more relevant data might be the number of babies entering the newborn intensive care unit, Prudential does not have those statistics. The company says it did not set out to do a scientific study that would have proved its effectiveness.
"We thought it was worthwhile from the beginning," said Ms. La Belle. If any intensive care admissions can be avoided, "we're ahead for the year," she said. Six weeks in intensive care costs $60,000 to $80,000. The children are often left with chronic medical conditions requiring lifelong treatment.
But while the program's supporters point out that health education and prenatal care can help prevent the birth of premature babies, saving millions of dollars in medical bills and averting personal tragedies, it has critics as well. They ask if society should be paying women to take advantage of medical care that not only can make a difference between a healthy baby and a sick, handicapped one but is free.
Dr. Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University, called the program an extraordinary indictment of the poor. "It's a sad commentary that we have to pay people to do what they should be doing anyway," he said.
 
No Patient Complaints
 Ms. La Belle expressed surprise at Dr. Reinhardt's criticism, and said she had heard no complaints from local people or community leaders. "I guess if it were truly insulting, patients would not come in and accept it," she said.
Dr. Sheila Kamerman, a professor of social policy and social planning at Columbia University, said she disagreed with Dr. Reinhardt's assessment. "There are so many barriers to health care, and the barriers are greatest for low-income women," she said. The $10, Dr. Kamerman said, "may reduce the cost of transportation or may pay for a baby sitter if she has another child."
"I guess it's a matter of where you're coming from," said Ms. La Belle. "For someone who's trying to think about a way to support their infant and provide for basics, you say, 'Wow.' "
Joan Willemain, a social worker at one of the Prudential clinics, at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore, said many of the women who visited her clinic were overwhelmed by transportation problems or reluctant to come in because they were drug users. "People who are abusing substances are often avoiding prenatal care, but they are the people we have to get in," she said. The payment, Ms. Willemain said, "is definitely a carrot for some people." But, she added: "I have mixed feelings about the message. It is strange to have to pay someone to care about their child."
The Prudential program also raises the question of what else people should be paid to do. For example, many people do not have their children immunized, although vaccinations are free for them.
 
Financial Incentive for Prudential

Should Prudential pay parents to have their children immunized? "We would seriously consider it," Ms. La Belle said.
One critic of the program points out that beneath the surface, Prudential has an added financial interest in carrying out the program. It may give Prudential an edge in the heated competition among managed care plans to sign up Medicaid recipients, said Dr. Bernard Guyer, chairman of the department of maternal and child health at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health. In poor neighborhoods, he said, "the H.M.O.'s are literally out on the streets signing people up," adding, "Two and two sorts of fits together and begins to add up to this strategy."
A few other insurers that run Medicaid programs are also trying incentives to encourage women to come for prenatal visits, but many say they cannot afford to do it on Prudential's scale.
In Alabama, says Debra Housch, the health education coordinator at the Jefferson County Board of Health in Birmingham, women sign a contract agreeing to come for eight prenatal visits and to see a social worker three times. On their second visit, they get a baby bottle with a bib and infant teaspoon tucked inside. If they complete the program, they get a layette with a diaper bag, blankets, and clothes for the baby. The gifts cost Medicaid $17, Ms. Housch said. The Alabama program has just begun.
 
Gift of Lottery Tickets
 In Denver, women on Medicaid who come in for prenatal visits are given lottery tickets worth $1 each. Loretta Ivory, the clinical coordinator for obstetrics and gynecology at the Eastside Neighborhood Health Center in Denver, said she and her colleagues had been perplexed by the finding that just 27 to 30 percent of poor women who eventually were treated at the clinic had come in for prenatal care in their first trimester.
They surveyed women and found that nearly all knew that prenatal care was important. "Ninety-seven percent of the women in our clinic said you should start as soon as you know you are pregnant," Ms. Ivory said. When asked why they did not get prenatal care, women most often replied, "I don't know."
"There were all these white, middle class men saying, 'Oh, they need to be educated,' " Ms. Ivory said. "They don't need to be educated." She and her colleagues decided to try lottery tickets as an incentive. The program, supported by the March of Dimes, began in 1992. Now, about 45 percent of the pregnant women treated at the clinic are coming in during their first trimester, she said. "It's great," she said. "We love it."
Researchers are not sure just what it is about prenatal care that is so beneficial. Dr. Marie McCormick, chairwoman of the department of maternal and child health at the Harvard School of Public Health, suggests that if the Prudential program results in healthier babies, it may be educational programs that make a difference.
A small project she directed in Harlem in the early 1980's also involved paying poor pregnant women to come in, in that case $5 for each visit to a doctor. But it did not have the same educational component, and although women did come in, the investigators saw no effect on the health of their babies. The researchers were discouraged, Dr. McCormick said, and never published their findings.
Dr. McCormick said there could also be practical problems with cash-incentive programs. How safe is it for clinic workers in inner-city neighborhoods to keep the cash that they hand out? Dr. McCormick said there was also a concern that women might use the money for drugs, alcohol or cigarettes.
Dr. Ronald Munson, an ethicist at the University of Missouri, said he took a pragmatic view of the Prudential program. "What would you see as another practical solution?" he asked. "This is a program that takes the situation as it finds it." And, he said, since everyone wins if women get prenatal care -- the taxpayers, the women, their babies and the insurance companies -- he finds it laudable.
 
Value of Money
 Women who visited the Prudential clinic at Sinai Hospital one week recently indicated that the money had made an impact.
Tyra Bannerman arrived with her baby girl, Aspen, in her arms. Aspen was born on March 1, at full term and weighing 8 pounds, 4 1/2 ounces. Ms. Bannerman said that she came regularly for medical care and education and that she would have come whether or not she got the $10 bills. But, she added, other young women, including her cousins, went there for the money.
"I think if they cut out the $10, a lot of girls would stop going to the clinic," she said. "I have actually been in the waiting room and heard females say that."
Bonita Moulden, eight months pregnant, sat down in the social worker's office and immediately asked for $10 because she had gone to an educational session on AIDS before visiting the obstetrics clinic. Asked whether the money made a difference to her, she said it did not. At the close of an interview with a reporter, she asked whether she would be paid $10 for that, too.
Ms. Housch of Alabama said that in the end, the only thing that mattered to her was getting women to come in for care. "We cannot be concerned with whether or not we are bribing, " she said. "I don't really care what I have to do to get them in as long as I get them in."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A health care plan pays patients $10 for keeping appointments. But Tyra Bannerman, with her daughter, Aspen, and Dr. Fritz Apollon at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore, said she would go to the clinic even if she were not being paid. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HEALTH PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (91%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL HEALTH CARE PLAN PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (68%); MEDICAID (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL HEALTH CARE PLAN MEDICAID (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (91%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; MEDICAID; PREMATURE BABIES; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; DIET AND NUTRITION; SMOKING AND TOBACCO MEDICAID (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); SMOKING (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); NUTRITION (72%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



94 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 2819 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam: A Taste Trip From North To South

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS 

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam

 BODY:
CREME caramel is as easy to find in Ho Chi Minh City as it is in Paris. Baguettes poke out of baskets in every market and on every street corner, and from Haiphong, northern Vietnam's largest port, to the Mekong delta, in the south, French pastry look-alikes adorn bakery windows.
Everywhere, too, the crumbling French colonial architecture lends a European air to this hauntingly beautiful country. From the aquamarine waters to the vibrant-green rice paddies, from the mountain ranges to the deep jungles, Vietnam comes in hundreds of shades of green, one more seductive than the next. No wonder the French, whose century-long rule of Vietnam ended in 1954, still love it and are returning in droves as tourists. Americans are on their way and their welcome will be warm. 
 When a tourist is asked "Where you from?" and the answer is "America," the questioner breaks out in a grin and often responds with "Bravo!" or "Glad you are back."
Americans began to trickle back to Vietnam even before the embargo was lifted earlier this year -- some in search of their past, others simply curious about a country they had known only through pictures of war and devastation during the 12 years the United States was involved in the civil war. If they know anything about Vietnamese culture, it is probably through the food served at restaurants opened by refugees from that war who settled in the United States.
The food reflects the country's history and geography, blending the flavors of China, France and India -- through Thailand, Laos and Cambodia -- in a way that is unique to Vietnam. Made with ingredients that reflect a yearlong growing season, meals always combine cooked foods with fresh greens and herbs. The cuisine is aromatic and spicy but subtle, with clean, bright flavors. There are noodles and bean curd from China; curries from India, and potatoes, asparagus, watercress, artichokes, avocados, corn and tomatoes from Europe.
Central to the cooking are lemon grass, shallots, scallions, cilantro, lime leaves and galangal, a relative of ginger. The food is almost always accompanied by nuoc cham, a condiment made with nuoc mam (fish sauce), garlic, sugar, hot peppers and lime. For color and texture, carrots, papaya, kohlrabi or white radish is added.
The regional differences in Vietnamese food have generally been lost in their overseas voyages, and there has even been a blurring of the lines in Vietnam. Compared with the food in the north, the southern food is spicier, sweeter and oilier and also contains more exotic fruits and vegetables, like the incredibly sweet durian, a fruit so overwhelmingly scented it should be opened outdoors.
As one travels south from Hanoi, the first place Western vegetables show up is in Hue, once the imperial city and still famous for its pagodas and the Perfume River, which divides it. The temperate climate of the highlands around Hue is more hospitable to asparagus and artichokes than is the intense heat of the south.
Food overflows the stalls in the fabulous markets found in every city. Rice, whether as grain, flour, paper, cakes or noodles, is the diet staple. The Vietnamese love both pho and banh cuon, or ravioli, for breakfast and lunch. Pho (pronounced fah) is a rich beef, pork or chicken broth filled with rice noodles and meats or fish balls. The pho is served, like so much Vietnamese food, with sparkling fresh greens -- coriander, scallions bean sprouts, slices of incendiary peppers and the ubiquitous nuoc mam, which is to Vietnam what soy sauce is to China. The banh cuon are made from rice flour and filled with a ground pork mixture.
For the culinary tourist, perseverance is essential, particularly in the north, where good restaurant food exists but generally not in places for tourists. Some of the best food is found in the unlikeliest of places: at a seaside restaurant after a swim in the China Sea, or at a one-room shop-house in Hoi An, near Da Nang.
But only the most daring tourist is likely to try Vietnamese specialties like dog, snake wine, Java mouse, braised goat testicle, over-easy fried fox meat and grilled porcupine. Fortunately, a visitor is unlikely to be offered any rice paddy rats, considered a delicacy because they dine only on rice.
As Vietnam begins to fill up not only with tourists but also with entrepreneurs, the availability of good food has been increasing. Fancy new restaurants -- Vietnamese-French, French, Italian, Thai, Chinese and American -- are springing up every day in Ho Chi Minh City. There are still beggars, some tiny children, throughout the countryside, on every street corner, even in restaurants.
For now, most of Vietnam looks as it must have when it was a French colony: Hanoi is stolid and gray; Ho Chi Minh City, sunny and bustling. Though most Americans over 35 associate Hue, Haiphong, Da Nang and the Mekong delta with bombs, mines and the Tet offensive, no signs of devastation were evident during our two-week trek.
Ho Chi Minh City is 30 years behind Taiwan and Thailand, frequent travelers say, and Hanoi is 30 years behind Ho Chi Minh City. But this country, with a 90 percent literacy rate, could become just like its neighbors. There may not be much time left to see the banyan trees and the frangipani without skyscrapers or pollution.
Only Ho Chi Minh City, which locals continue to call Saigon, is beginning to show the signs of the joint ventures with businesses from industrialized countries. The waterfront is lined with cranes; many buildings are topped by signs in English; the first-class hotels, some of them quite new, have long limousines parked in front. Many places are now accepting American credit cards.
Throughout the country, the barely passable roads are clogged with bicycles, cyclos (bicycle-driven rickshaws), motor scooters, motorcycles, some trucks and an occasional water buffalo. In Ho Chi Minh City new cars are being added to the mix. Many of the motor scooters and bicycles are ridden by young women in the traditional ao dai -- pants and long fitted tunics slit up the sides, worn with long gloves and straw hats to shield them from the sun.
Dodging traffic is an acquired skill. In one near accident, someone barely escaped a collision with a bicyclist and a load of spring onions that the laws of physics say it is impossible to carry. But lots of unlikely items are carried on bicycles and motor scooters -- tree trunks and live pigs on their backs, trussed on a sling behind the driver, on their way to market.
The Communist Government began to develop a market economy in the late 1980's, and everyone, it seems, has something to sell, even if it's only three glutinous rice balls stuffed with sugar or a puff of tobacco from a long bamboo pipe.
Tiny one-room restaurants, sometimes with outdoor seats, are everywhere. Often, especially in the north, the tables inside are put together after the last customer is served and are covered with mats and turned into beds for the family.
In Hoi An, an old fishing village near Da Nang, we stopped at the Caolau Cafe, one of these all-purpose rooms, for a snack of banh loc, steamed tapioca cakes filled with shrimp or meat. When complimented on the food, the owner invited us to come back for a dinner cooked by his mother. After too many greasy, undistinguished meals arranged by the official tour guides, this offer was clearly one to accept.
The meal was worth every dong, which added up to $5. Among the dishes were a fascinating stir-fry of fish, tree ears, tomato, onion and sour Chinese cabbage and another of ground peanuts, hot pepper and water spinach, which is a more delicate version of Western spinach.
The kitchens at many of these restaurants, particularly in the north, are quite primitive. Most of the cooking and preparation is done by people squatting, working over braziers and chopping or cleaning over boards or large plastic bags set on the floor. The closer to Ho Chi Minh City, the more erect the workers and the more familiar the kitchens become.
Unlike the former Soviet Union, where many ingredients are scarce, Vietnam has a 12-month growing season and plenty of food. Two pounds of tomatoes cost 25 cents, but the average annual income is only $200.
Depending on the part of the country, there are two or three rice harvests. The entire process is done by hand, most of it by women wearing the traditional conical hats to protect them from the sun. In many places the rice kernels are spread out to dry on the shoulders of the highways.
It isn't a shortage of food that makes it a challenge to find a good restaurant in the country, especially in the north; it's the lack of trained chefs. "For a long time the people were lucky to have enough rice to fill them up," said Germaine Swanson, who was born in Vietnam. The owner of Germaine's a Pan-Asian restaurant in Washington, she was the leader of our group of five women.
"There was a lack of interest in cooking," she continued. "Now it is better, but the cooks who worked for wealthy families, for French families or in the restaurants are either too old or gone. In the north, particularly, there are no chefs. There is no sense of cooking."
There is, though, a history of and a love for snacking. Street food has always been part of the culture. It is sold from baskets hung from a pole balanced across the shoulders, at the markets, from the one-room home-cum-restaurants and from restaurants that spring up magically each morning on sidewalks and disappear late at night, but not before the dishes are washed in tubs on the sidewalk.
There isn't much refrigeration in Vietnam, so people shop every day, and there is at least one large market in every city along with many smaller neighborhood places.
Some markets are in shed-type buildings; many are open air. Even though the floors are dirt, the buildings decrepit and the space small, the women sweep their places clean with a footlong broom many times a day. The only real drawback to hygiene-minded Westerners are the flies in some of the markets. One enterprising vendor solved the problem with lighted incense sticks in her sugar.
The largest markets, where everything from chicken wire to snakes is sold, are a riot of beautifully arranged colors, textures, shapes and sizes. Many vendors specialize: one sold only pigs heads. The food is astonishingly varied: grated green papaya, dried sea cucumbers, mounds of sliced fried shallots, live ducks and chickens, live fish and shrimp the size of small spiny lobsters, Mekong champagne and four-foot-high plastic bags filled with tree ear fungus, but also Kiss Me toilet paper and French's mustard. Even before the embargo was lifted earlier this year, American products found their way into the country.
Eating in the markets is not only common but also often more rewarding than eating in a restaurant. Anywhere, though, it is best to eat only cooked food unless, like some fruits and vegetables, it can be peeled; to drink bottled water; to carry your own chopsticks, and to wash out all bowls and glasses with hot tea. It was at one of the markets in Hanoi that a couple of us tried betel nuts, made famous by Bloody Mary in "South Pacific," who was so named because the betel nuts turn the mouth red. Betel nuts are the fruit of a tree that provides a mild stimulant. Both of the experimenters got lightheaded and had red mouths. They also attracted quite a crowd of vendors, laughing and pointing at the crazy Westerners.
Nothing is wasted here. In Da Lat, a charming city in the mountains that is always filled with honeymooners, coconut is grated at the market and the shells are turned into brushes or used as fuel or as ladles or as containers for honey.
Some cities have their own specialties. There was a trip to West Lake in Hanoi for the banh tom, which are shrimp cakes made with shrimp, grated sweet potatoes and rice flour. More interesting was the opportunity to gawk at the million-dollar houses that are being built around the lake for Vietnamese and foreign business people who are making money in joint ventures.
In Hue a restaurant run by a family of deaf-mutes was justly famous for banh khoai, pancakes made of rice flour with shrimp, pork, bean sprouts and turmeric, served with nuoc cham, green figs, peanut sauce, green banana and hot peppers. Hoi An is known for its delicious square-sided rice noodles made with special well water available only there.
Vietnamese sweets do not appeal to all Americans. But aficionados of gelatinous food like tapioca become addicted to the glutinous rice and the tapioca flour cakes stuffed with bean paste or sugar cubes, and they can find them in every city. The Vietnamese reserve them for special occasions, preferring for dessert some of their extraordinary fruit like mangosteens, loquats, lychees, saboutiers (like pears), jackfruit, mangoes and oranges with dark green skins.
There's only one drawback to such a sensuous trip through Vietnam: it is impossible to recapture the flavors, textures, colors or sights and sounds back home. They are never successfully transplanted.
 
Favorites On the Menu
 HERE are some of the most popular dishes in Vietnam. Many are available in Vietnamese restaurants in the United States.
CHA GIO Spring rolls made of rice paper and filled with crab, pork, bean sprouts, mung bean threads (vermicelli), carrots and onion, deep fried and served with nuoc cham, a dipping sauce.
MUC XAO Squid sauteed with onion, garlic, tomatoes, leeks or French celery.
NEM BI Shredded roast pork and shredded pork skin mixed with roasted rice powder, mint, coriander and lettuce and rolled in rice paper.
NEM CHUA Rice paper wrapped around sour sausage, lettuce, mint, coriander and fragrant shiso leaves and dipped in nuoc cham.
PHO Meal-size portions of noodle soup with thick rich beef, pork or chicken broth and noodles, along with any combination of chicken, beef, pork, shrimp and fish balls accompanied by lime wedges, bean sprouts, coriander, hot chilies, scallions and nuoc mam (fish sauce).
 
Fish With Nuts and Herbs
 CHA CA, a popular fish dish in Vietnam, is cooked on a charcoal stove at the table. In the absence of a brazier or gas grill that can be put on the table, it can be cooked on the stove.
 
 Cha Ca
Total time: 20 minutes plus 2 hours to marinate
 
 3 pounds cleaned monkfish
 4 large shallots
 3 large cloves garlic
 1/2 of small onion
 1 tablespoon turmeric
 2 tablespoons plus 1/4 cup canola oil
 1/4 teaspoon white pepper
 1 bunch green onions, white part removed and green part sliced into tiny rings
 1 1/2 bunches dill, minced
 6cups cooked Vietnamese rice noodles
 1 small bunch mint, leaves removed from stems
 1 small bunch shiso leaves, if available
 1 small bunch basil, leaves removed from stems
 1/2 cup dry-roasted unsalted peanuts
 Nuoc cham (see recipe).
1. Wash the monkfish, and cut each piece into slices 1/2 inch thick.
2. With the food processor running, add the shallots, garlic and onion, processing until the ingredients are finely chopped. Add the turmeric, 2 tablespoons oil and pepper, and continue processing until mixture is a fairly smooth paste.
3. Mix the monkfish slices with the turmeric mixture and allow to marinate, covered, in the refrigerator for at least two hours or overnight.
4. When ready to cook, either prepare a charcoal fire or use a top-of-stove grill. Arrange fish on a greased two-piece wire grill to make them easy to flip. Grill only long enough to brown a little on both sides.
5. Meanwhile, heat the remaining 1/4 cup of oil in a pan that can be taken to the table. Add 2/3 of the scallions and dill. When fish is ready, arrange it on the scallions and dill and top with remaining scallions and dill. Cook the fish in the oil at the table until done.
For each serving, put some rice noodles in a bowl and top them with the monkfish, then sprinkle with torn mint, shiso, basil leaves, peanuts and nuoc cham.
Yield: 6 servings.
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 615 calories, 25 grams fat, 55 milligrams cholesterol, 1,290 milligrams sodium, 45 grams protein, 60 grams carbohydrate.
 
 Nuoc Cham
Total time: 10 minutes
 
 1 tablespoon shredded carrots
 1 tablespoon shredded daikon (Japanese radish)
 1/2 cup nuoc mam (fish sauce)
 1/3 cup water
 1/4 cup lime juice
 2 tablespoons sugar
 1/2 teaspoon minced hot red or green pepper
 1/2 teapoon finely minced garlic
1. Sprinkle salt on carrots and daikon to tenderize them.
2. Combine remaining ingredients. Rinse salt off carrots and daikon, then drain on paper towel. Combine all ingredients. Serve with cha ca.
Yield: 6 servings.
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 40 calories, 0 grams fat, 0 milligrams cholesterol, 1,240 milligrams sodium, 1 gram protein, 9 grams carbohydrate.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fox meat? Of course: Vietnam's markets, like this one in Ho Chi Minh City, offer everything from papaya to snakes; The staple: Rice is harvested by hand, mostly by women. (Photographs by Mary Silverman for The New York Times) (pg. C1); Beep-beep: Ho Chi Minh City, already clogged with bicycles, food-laden carts, motor scooters and motorcyles, is also filling up with the new cars of business people. (Mary Silverman for The New York Times); No frills: The Mai Anh Pho Ga restaurant in Hanoi; Efficiency: Kitchen of Viet Huong restaurant in Hanoi; Nap time? Diners outside Mai Anh Pho Ga in Hanoi. (Lois Raimondo for The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (98%); VIETNAM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (90%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: HAIPHONG DA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; VIET NAM (98%); VIETNAM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (90%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; NYTRAVEL; RECIPES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (85%); HISTORY (76%); BAKERIES (73%); CIVIL WAR (70%); MOUNTAINS (70%); REFUGEES (67%); RESTAURANTS (64%); 

PERSON: BURROS, MARIAN

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



95 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Can This Be the End Of Mostly Mozart? Talks Are in Progress

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
As Lincoln Center prepares to announce the programs for this summer's Mostly Mozart Festival, discussions are taking place at Lincoln Center that could eliminate the festival completely, several people involved in the talks have said.
Beginning in 1995, the New York Philharmonic may take over some summer dates at Avery Fisher Hall from the festival, which has used the orchestra's home during the summer. By 1996, the Philharmonic could displace Mostly Mozart entirely. Another option being considered is a theater and dance festival in the New York State Theater. The Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra's three-year contract expires after the summer, and a contract with Gerard Schwarz, the festival's music director, has yet to be signed. 
 Though the Mostly Mozart Festival was still a success at the box office last summer -- the hall was nearly 90 percent full and its dollar income was the second highest in the festival's history, a Lincoln Center official said -- the motivations for the discussions are partly economic.
The Philharmonic contract requires that its musicians be paid throughout the year, even if no performances are scheduled, and the orchestra has been seeking a summer venue for some time. Moreover, attendance at the orchestra's handful of summer Carnegie Hall concerts last year was less than expected.
 
Seeking New Forms
 Nathan Leventhal, the president of Lincoln Center, confirmed that discussions had been going on with the New York Philharmonic for more than a year, and that an "interdisciplinary festival" was being considered for the State Theater, which will have no summer occupant now that the City Opera is returning to a standard fall and spring schedule.
The discussions are part of an effort by Jane S. Moss, the executive director of programming, to expand the center's activities. Ms. Moss, who took over the job in the fall of 1992, has been an advocate of new forms of programming, but said it was "premature" to comment on discussions that were still taking place or to provide examples of what a State Theater festival might include.
This summer will be the 28th season of the Mostly Mozart Festival, which with its informal character and moderate ticket prices has been a pioneering example of successful summer musical programming. It has helped confirm Mozart's place at the center of the concert repertory and has spawned imitators around the globe.
Over the years it has presented the New York debuts of Cecilia Bartoli, James Galway and other artists, and has helped make such musicians as Alicia de Larrocha more familiar to New Yorkers. The festival may have reached its fulfillment in Lincoln Center's presentation of every one of Mozart's compositions during 1991, the bicentennial of his death.
 
Exploring Options
 It is still unclear precisely how a replacement for the festival might work. Deborah Borda, the executive director of the Philharmonic, stressed that no final decisions had been made and that the Philharmonic was exploring "every possible option" for its summer season. The orchestra's contract gives it the right to choose any performing date at Avery Fisher Hall. If something worked out, Ms. Borda said, "we would want to work closely with Lincoln Center to fit into an overall vision of the summer festival." One scenario being discussed, she confirmed, was for the Philharmonic to take over two weeks of programming in 1995 and four weeks in 1996.
Mr. Schwarz, who has been music director of the Mostly Mozart Festival since 1984, said that while re-evaluations of summer programming were taking place, it was his understanding that nothing was definite. He added, however, that he would be "shocked" to see the Philharmonic displace Mostly Mozart, despite the orchestra's contractual right. "I don't think Kurt Masur would do such a thing," he said.
Mr. Schwarz, who is also music director of the Seattle Symphony and the New York Chamber Symphony, expects to continue his involvement with Lincoln Center regardless of Mostly Mozart's future. "I have been offered a long-term contract, but terms have yet to be agreed upon," he said.
Mr. Leventhal praised Mr. Schwarz and said, "We will have a new contract with him," but declined to say that the current arrangement would continue.
 
Festival Orchestra May Survive
 The Mostly Mozart orchestra's future after this summer is more open to question. Mr. Schwarz said the assumption has been that there will be negotiations for another season. The orchestra of freelance musicians, who come together annually for the festival, has been invited to go to Tokyo for Mostly Mozart performances in 1995 after the New York festival, just as it has during the last three summers.
Mr. Schwarz said he had hoped that the festival could even be expanded to include a staged Mozart opera each season as well as solo recitals by young artists in Alice Tully Hall. "But the festival makes a tremendous contribution as it stands now," he said, "playing great music wonderfully for a large and appreciative audience."
Mr. Leventhal said: "Speaking personally -- and what happens will depend on what Jane wants to do -- it would be wonderful if Mostly Mozart would continue in one form or another. It has been a spectacular success in New York and has found a whole new audience. But all programming is on the table for discussion."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC); NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC CARNEGIE HALL CORP (56%); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC); NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; MOSTLY MOZART FESTIVAL FESTIVALS (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); OPERA (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); DANCE (70%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD AVERY FISHER (58%); GERARD SCHWARZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



96 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Free at Last!

 BODY:
It was a magical moment: the peaceful passage from an era of oppression to a dawn of liberation in South Africa. In Nelson Mandela's words, it was indeed "a joyous night for the human spirit." With a smile that would melt a snowman, and a jaunty dance that millions were soon imitating, South Africa's president-to-be claimed victory for his party, and his cause.
Part of what made this moment so special, and last week's election so moving, was the interplay between the leader and his cause. After 27 years in prison, Mr. Mandela emerged to lead a people who were also in bondage. Their struggle was embodied in the unwavering persistence, physical endurance and almost mystical spirituality of this singular man. He had been jailed years ago for daring to demand a nonracial parliament. Now he was presiding over the election of that very parliament. 
 It augurs well for South Africa that after a cleanly fought and entirely unprecedented election, winners and losers reached out generously to each other. This is a promising prelude to five years of power-sharing under an interim Constitution. Still-incomplete returns put Mr. Mandela's African National Congress first with 62.5 percent of the vote, followed by President F. W. de Klerk's long-dominant National Party with 22.2 percent, and the Zulu Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi's Inkatha Freedom Party with 8.3 percent.
As important as these figures is the civility and experience in hard bargaining that developed in four years of negotiations between Mr. de Klerk's team and its National Congress partners. Should Mr. Mandela's party wind up with more than two-thirds of the vote, giving sole power to write a new constitution, it is reasonably expected that the power-sharing arrangement, a key to social peace, would still hold.
Meantime, Americans can legitimately join in the cheering. The protests of millions of ordinary voters, black and white, emboldened Congress to adopt, and then pass again over Ronald Reagan's veto, comprehensive economic sanctions against Pretoria's racist regime. Popular pressure induced U.S. banks and corporations to pull out of South Africa, thereby bolstering the internal anti-apartheid movement and further isolating a white minority Government.
There is every reason for Washington to strengthen its South African connection as a freely elected Government tries to jump-start a stalled economy, seeks investments and loans to build roads and schools and addresses the awesome challenge of narrowing the economic and social chasm that divides races. It is doubly in America's interest to stimulate growth and stability since South Africa and its regional neighbors offer new markets for goods and services.
Doubtless the euphoria will swiftly pass, and soon hot words will resound in a multiracial parliament. A white exodus is always possible. But in Jesse Jackson's phrase, South Africa wisely decided to negotiate a revolution rather than have a civil war. And after so remarkable and orderly an election, Americans are entitled to hope that South Africa will continue to confound expectations.
President Clinton chose aptly in sending Mr. Jackson, one of Martin Luther King Jr.'s lieutenants, to lead the American observer team during the election, which in turn was aided by a $35 million U.S. grant. The presence of Dr. King's widow at Mr. Mandela's side during the victory speech underscored the special tie between South African blacks and African-Americans. In both cases, a poor and oppressed people triumphed over monolithic power to unite a society that misused and often despised them. That is why Mr. Mandela, echoing Dr. King's most famous phase, called on all South Africans, white and black, to "loudly proclaim from the rooftops -- Free at last!"
For not only blacks have been liberated by this democratic rebirth: whites no longer need to lie about a system whose cruelties and contradictions shamed them before the world. Blacks no longer need to struggle to be heard in the councils of their ancestral land. An entire people, a nation, has a chance to be free at last.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS; BLACKS (NON-US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (76%); VETO (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



97 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 4, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Fasting for Haiti

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
President Clinton's comment yesterday seemed unequivocal. "It's time for them to go," he said, referring to the military leaders who have put the torch to democracy in Haiti.
The Administration is making a big (if belated) push for tougher United Nations sanctions against the outlaw regime of Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, and reports are rife that Mr. Clinton is seriously considering some form of military intervention if intensified sanctions don't work. 
 Its carrot strategy in shambles, the Administration appears to be reaching for a fair-sized stick.
Meanwhile, Randall Robinson, the 52-year-old executive director of TransAfrica, remains on a hunger strike, which is now in its fourth week and has brought increased attention to the Administration's policy on Haiti. Mr. Robinson has long urged stepped-up efforts to oust the military regime, but his immediate goal is much narrower. He wants Bill Clinton to end the United States' loathsome practice of capturing Haitian refugees on the high seas and returning them to their homeland.
Mr. Robinson does not believe he is asking a great deal. He would like the Administration to treat Haitians the same as anyone else seeking political asylum in the United States. A fair hearing would be sufficient. If the Administration would just grant a hearing to the Haitian refugees to determine if they have a credible claim to political asylum, Mr. Robinson would return enthusiastically to a diet of solid food.
It would have to be a real hearing, not some sham shipboard interview, and not some farcical proceeding conducted in a U.S. Government office in Haiti after the refugees have been hauled back home.
"All we need to do is undertake a hearing to separate the economic refugees from the political refugees," said Mr. Robinson. "I end this fast when we give the people a hearing."
The difference in the way the United States handles fleeing Haitians and fleeing Cubans encountered at sea is instructive. The Haitians are halted and forced to board a Coast Guard vessel. The Haitian boats are burned and sunk and the refugees are taken right back to Haiti. The Cubans, on the other hand, are embraced. Often they are met by a United States Government vessel, which provides whatever assistance is necessary to get the refugees to Florida.
"They literally bring the boats in," said Ira Kurzban, a Miami lawyer who has represented both Haitians and Cubans. "They'll hear there's a Cuban raft out near the Bahamas and they'll go out and rescue it and bring them to the United States."
With Cubans, the United States saves the boat and welcomes the people. With Haitians, we destroy the boat and banish the people.
The forced return of refugees to places where they could suffer persecution is prohibited by both United Nations treaty and United States law. But technically, according to an Alice-in-Wonderland ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court, the United States policy of capturing Haitians at sea and returning them to Haiti is legal.
The Court ruled that neither the U.N. treaty nor the Federal immigration law applied to refugees on the high seas.
If the Haitians could somehow reach the United States, they would be entitled to a hearing on their request for political asylum. But the Coast Guard is out there to make sure they never get that opportunity.
The Supreme Court, in its ruling last June, acknowledged that the forced repatriation of refugees at sea "may even violate the spirit" of the United Nations treaty. The Court went as far as to suggest that the drafters of the treaty had not specifically protected refugees at sea because they "may not have contemplated that any nation would gather fleeing refugees and return them to the one country they had desperately sought to escape."
Randall Robinson has lost a dozen pounds or so, and if the Administration doesn't change its policy regarding Haitian refugees he will lose a dozen more. He doesn't want to die but he believes the moral issue here is big enough to risk dying for. The United States, he believes, cannot become a barrier to liberty, a nation that sends the seekers of democracy back into the inferno.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSAFRICA (ORGN) UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSAFRICA (ORGN) UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); BAHAMAS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HUNGER STRIKES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); LAWYERS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; ROBINSON, RANDALL BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1994



98 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Stocks End Day Mixed in Listless Trading

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Stock prices, closely following the turbulent bond and currency markets, closed mixed yesterday in listless trading, hurting stocks ranging from blue chips like Procter & Gamble to high-technology stocks like Intel.
Stocks recovered somewhat after the Federal Reserve and a host of foreign central banks bought dollars to support the sagging American currency. The bond market also rebounded from early declines to close down only slightly. 
Stock traders may be returning to the sidelines again. After four sessions of near or above-average trading volume, the number of shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange totaled only about 268 million shares, about 12 percent below this year's average of 305 million shares.
The stock market shows little sign of shaking off its three-month-long "correction" following the Federal Reserve Board's raising of interest rates three times in as many months. Since March 29, the Dow Jones industrial average has been trading in a range of between 3,600 and 3,700, as much as 10 percent below its January peak of 3,978.
The Dow fell as much as 29 points yesterday and closed at 3,697.75, down 16.66 points. The Standard & Poor's 500 closed at 451.72, down 1.31 points, but the smaller-company Nasdaq composite index was up 0.93 point, to 740.30.
 
Caution by Traders
 Traders attributed the caution on stocks to worries over an extraordinary run-up in long-term interest rates and a recent plunge in the value of the dollar that might scare away foreign investors from other American assets, like stocks.
Interest rates rise, and the value of existing fixed-income investments falls, when potential buyers hold out for richer yields on bonds and other instruments.
In the last five trading sessions, the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond has risen more than a quarter of a percentage point. It closed yesterday at a yield of 7.33 percent, down two basis points. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
In overnight trading, the dollar traded as low as 100.77 yen and 1.63 German marks, before rallying somewhat to 101.88 yen and 1.65 marks. Since April 8, when the dollar traded at more than 105 yen, it has fallen 3 percent. In a similar period, the dollar lost almost 4 percent against the German currency.
For the long run, however, some analysts think the currency will have little significant impact on stocks. "The dollar and the bond may get the headlines," said Alfred E. Goldman, director of market analysis at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. "But what is really happening is the market is trying to find a bottom. That won't happen until the market reaches a consensus on whether it's 7.5 percent for 30-year bonds and 4 percent or 4 1/2 percent for the Federal funds rate." The funds rate is currently 3.75 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table of favorite stocks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) INTEL CORP (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); BONDS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



99 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-19
 
PALESTINIAN SELF-RULE BEGINS
Palestinians gained a measure of self-government for the first time as Israel and the P.L.O. signed an agreement that formally began Israel's withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho. But the borders of Jericho remained in dispute, and follow-up accords will be needed. A1
 
WAS IT WORTH IT, GAZANS ASK
As the self-rule accord took effect, the dominant sound in Gaza Strip's ramshackle refugee camps was of one hand clapping. A1 

Smiles, congratulations and mixed feelings are traded in Jericho. A17
 
Egypt's leader spared no expense to create a scene of harmony. A16
 
Excerpts from the agreement signed by the two sides in Cairo. A18
 
MORE SUPPORT FOR DOLLAR
The United States teamed up with the central banks of 16 nations to buy dollars in a global campaign intended to show investors that the Clinton Administration is serious about maintaining the dollar's value. A1
 
CRIES OF FRAUD IN SOUTH AFRICA
The outcome of elections in South Africa's volatile Zulu heartland remained uncertain, with new vote totals showing a tight race between the African National Congress and the Inkatha Freedom Party. Each party accused the other of cheating. A1
 
RWANDAN JET CRASH UNSOLVED
A plane crash that killed the Presidents of Rwanda and Burundi and unleashed weeks of massacres remains unsolved. One month after the crash, even the origin of the violence remains in dispute. A3
 
U.S. TRIES TO AVERT BOSNIA BATTLE
The United States, backed by France and Britain, is preparing a two-step plan -- including the threat of NATO air strikes -- to head off a major battle between Serbs and Muslims in a vital land corridor near the northern Bosnian town of Brcko. A19
 
CHINESE SMARTING FROM CUTBACKS
The threat of political upheaval is growing in Wuhan and other strapped Chinese cities where state-owned factories are being shut down. Such debt-ridden industries still dominate China's economy. A10
 
A Japanese official said the Nanjing massacre was "fabricated." A9
 
The U.S. asked Moscow to disclose its nuclear fuel stocks. A12
 
A prosecutor in Tijuana was accused of protecting drug traffickers. A7
 
Mittelherwigsdorf Journal: Preaching eastern self-reliance. A4
 
National A20-24, B10-14
 
DELAY IN BASE CLOSINGS
Fearful of damaging the economies of scores of communities nationwide, the Pentagon will recommend delaying some base-closing decisions until after the 1996 elections. A1
 
A BASIC RIGHT TO DIE
The rights to abortion and suicide, two ends of the spectrum of life, have been linked for the first time by a Federal judge in Seattle. A1
 
WHERE BODIES AWAIT A THAW
In a familiar ritual all over New England, the thaws of spring allow burial of those who died when the ground was frozen. A22
 
MASSACHUSETTS PROFILE
William F. Weld, the Republican Governor of the nation's most Democratic state, is expected to glide easily into a second term. A20
 
DEFINING 'HEALTHY' FOOD
The F.D.A. announced it would strictly limit food companies' use of the 'healthy' label. A20
 
SETBACK FOR ROBERTSON
Pat Robertson, the Evangelical Christian leader, suffered a political setback when all five of his candidates lost a school board election in his hometown in Virginia. B14
 
BREAST CHEMOTHERAPY BENEFITS
Cancer researchers reported that the standard chemotherapy dose for advanced breast cancer is more effective than a lower dose that can have fewer side effects. A22
 
THREAT OF ASSAULT WEAPONS
Although only 1 percent of all guns in the nation, assault-type weapons account for 7 percent of all guns traced by Federal firearms agents. B10
 
ENIGMA OF GUN CONTROL
News analysis: Why is it that the overwhelming majority of Americans favor stronger restrictions on firearms, yet Congress has trouble outlawing rapid-fire weapons? B10
 
SLOWLY SELECTING A JUSTICE
In choosing a Supreme Court nominee, the White House has fallen into the drawn-out process that has characterized many of the Administration's thorniest decisions. B10
 
NEW DATA ON U.S. EDUCATION
Most American students spend only 41 percent of their school days on academic subjects, according to a new report. A21
 
SLOWING HEALTH REFORM'S PACE
There is growing evidence that Congress prefers slower, less comprehensive changes in health care than President Clinton proposed. B14
 
RADIATION TESTS ON STILLBORNS
The Government's nuclear weapons industry sanctioned research in the 1950's that involved chemically analyzing the cremated remains of stillborn babies. B12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
CORRUPTION INQUIRY GROWS
Eleven more police officers were taken off the job in the 30th Precinct in Harlem as a corruption investigation into the precinct continued to grow. A1
 
SCHOOL CUSTODIANS IN PACT
Union negotiators for New York City's school custodians have agreed to concessions that would reduce the custodians' control over school buildings. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-13
 
The perfect manual. C1
Updating Wright's suburbia. C1
At home with Robert and Ian
MacNeil. C1
Sampling baby photographers. C2
A housing project is reborn. C4
House Proud C10
Parent & Child C12
 
Arts/Entertainment C14-22
 
Summer at Lincoln Center. C14
Contemporary-art auctions. C15
Christopher d'Amboise quits Pennsylvania Ballet. C17
Three 60's art stars shine again. C15
Books: Nixon's valedictory. C19
Television: Dennis Miller. C15
 
Sports B16-23
 
Baseball: Bonilla paces Mets. B17
Basketball: Nets stay alive. B17
Column: Anderson on Nets. B17
 
Obituaries B15
 
Dr. R. Lee Clark, helped build a cancer center.
Jewell M. Garrelts, engineer and Columbia Univerisity dean.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
A wall falls in Jericho.
Tough cops, not brutal cops.
Denver's flying baggage.
Singapore justice on trial.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Presume innocence.
Frank Rich: Four weddings and a runaway.
Claiborne Pell and Lee H. Hamilton: Don't arm Bosnia.
Gregory Stanko and Nisha Mody: Chinese pirates sail the Potomac.
 
Bridge C18
 
Chronicle B8
 
Crossword C20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RWANDA (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (73%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RWANDA (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); BURUNDI (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); MILITARY BASES (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); REFUGEES (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); CLOSINGS (66%); POLITICS (66%); JUDGES (66%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (65%); SUICIDE (64%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS (62%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (62%); RELIGION (62%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (55%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



100 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Defense Dept. May Postpone Base Closings

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4

 BODY:
Fearful of damaging the economies of scores of communities nationwide, the Defense Department is preparing to seek authority to delay some decisions on base closings until after the 1996 elections, a senior Pentagon official said today.
Congress would have to approve such a plan. But Defense Secretary William J. Perry and Deputy Defense Secretary John M. Deutch favor dividing a final round of decisions scheduled for next year into two parts: choosing next year to close some bases and then waiting until 1997 or 1998 to decide the fate of many others, the official said. 
 By doing so, Mr. Perry and Mr. Deutch would place political and economic considerations above the strong objections of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who are counting on saving billions of dollars by closing installations as quickly as possible to pay for future weapons, training and troop salaries.
Moreover, it would inject a political element into a process Congress invented four years ago specifically to be as free as possible from political influence. Critics say there is clearly a political incentive for President Clinton and some members of Congress to delay or diminish the economic pain of base closings until after the 1996 elections, or at least to limit closings in states like California, Texas and Florida, pivotal battlegrounds in 1996.
Three independent commissions, meeting in 1988, 1991 and 1993, have decided to close 70 major installations. It takes five to six years to shut a base. Lawmakers and Pentagon officials have predicted that the 1995 round of decisions, scheduled to be the last one, could close more installations than the previous three combined.
"As the defense budget goes down and we close bases, the issue now is the pace of closures so people and communities can adjust," the senior Pentagon official said. "The choice is between an undigestible round or a digestible round."
Defense Department officials insisted today that they were acting independently and not under orders from President Clinton or his top aides. Indeed, the White House is caught between trying to help communities hurt by base closings and not wanting to be accused of harming military readiness, which is what senior commanders say would happen if base closings are delayed. "It sounds like an idea we need to explore carefully," said a senior White House official.
The military services are in the preliminary stages of identifying which bases Mr. Perry should recommend to an independent Presidential commission for closing. The service recommendations are not due for several months, so it is too soon to tell which states would be hit hardest. California, for example, suffered nine closings in the round last year, which the Pentagon estimated will cost nearly 13,000 civilian jobs.
To extend the base-closing process to 1997 or beyond, Congress would have to amend the 1990 legislation that created the Presidential commission to decide which bases to close, a body that gives Congress political cover for the decisions.
The commission accepts or alters the Pentagon's recommendations. That decision then goes to President Clinton, who accepts or rejects them in their entirety. If he accepts them, the recommendations go to Congress, where only a negative vote by both houses can stop the process.
There is growing support on Capitol Hill, particularly in the House, to delay next year's round of decisions, or at least divide the process into two parts and spread out the pain.
 
Support From Panel Leader
 At a hearing today of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Readiness and Defense Infrastructure, Senator John Glenn, the Ohio Democrat who heads the panel, voiced support for slowing the pace of base closings.
"I'd hate to delay this and put us all through that agony, but I'm not unsympathetic to putting some of this off," said Mr. Glenn.
Representative James V. Hansen, a Utah Republican on the House Armed Services Committee, introduced legislation last week to delay the 1995 closings for two years. Mr. Hansen has four bases in his district north of Salt Lake City, including Hill Air Force Base.
But several influential lawmakers have expressed serious reservations about tinkering with the law. "The longer we delay closing unneeded bases, the longer it will take to achieve real savings," said Senator Sam Nunn, a Georgia Democrat who heads the Armed Services Committee. "We also must consider whether it is beneficial or harmful for clouds of uncertainty to hang over base communities until 1997."
Closing bases is expensive in the short term, with construction costs and environmental cleanup expenses. But Pentagon officials say by the end of the decade, the bases designated for closing so far would save the military $4.6 billion a year.
 
'There's Not Enough Money'
 The Joint Chiefs of Staff are even blunter in their judgment that the Pentagon needs to shut bases, and shut them as quickly as possible. "We really need this," Adm. Jeremy M. Boorda, the new Chief of Naval Operations, told reporters on Tuesday. "There's not enough money to maintain infrastructure we no longer need."
The Pentagon has reduced its forces by about 30 percent since 1990, but the number of bases has dropped by only about 15 percent, forcing the military to pay to maintain more installations than it needs.
Closing bases, however, has a direct economic effect on surrounding communities. Under the last round of decisions in 1993, for example, the bulk of job losses will be concentrated in four states. Florida faces the loss of 18,500 civilian jobs; Virginia, 13,000 civilian workers; California, 12,800 civilian military-related jobs, and South Carolina, which is expected to lose more than 6,300 civilian jobs.
Mr. Deutch signaled his concerns on Tuesday about heaping economic dislocation on a large number of communities all at once.
"Whether we are making sufficient progress on the economic re-use of bases to proceed in one fell swoop to do everything that needs to be done in 1995 or whether we'll have to seek authority for additional rounds of BRAC remains under study," Mr. Deutch told reporters on Tuesday, referring to the base realignment and closing process.
The Pentagon official responsible for overseeing the base closing process, Robert Bayer, a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, today described in greater detail the advantages and disadvantages of extending the base-closing process beyond 1995.
 
Need for Painful Decisions
 "The sooner we make these painful decisions, the sooner we reach a point of achieving long-term savings," Mr. Bayer said. "But the flip side is with this ambitious agenda, there's a risk we won't be fully successful in the next round."
Mr. Bayer also said that with increasing constraints on the military budget, the Pentagon might not be able to afford the construction and environmental cleanup costs associated with the scope of base closings projected for next year. The Pentagon is budgeting just under $3 billion a year for base-closing costs.
In response to complaints from communities hurt by base closings, Mr. Clinton announced a wide-ranging plan last July to speed the cleanup of installations and give local communities priority in using the bases for new jobs programs or businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



101 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Nations Help to Back Dollar As U.S. Acts to Show Resolve

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4

 BODY:
The United States teamed up with the central banks of 16 other nations today to buy dollars in a global campaign intended to show investors that the Clinton Administration is serious about maintaining the value of the ailing American currency.
It was the first such coordinated intervention since August 1992, and involved the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve, joining with the central banks of Germany, France, Japan and 13 other countries. The move was planned in a series of secret phone calls overnight. 
 The dollar was sharply higher against the German mark and the Japanese yen in late trading in New York today, although it started to slip again near the end of the day. It ended at 1.6531 marks, up from 1.6370 on Tuesday, and at 101.88 yen, up from 101 on Tuesday.
Senior American Treasury officials said the main objective of Friday's effort and today's much larger intervention to support the dollar was to counter what they saw as a widening perception in global currency markets that the Administration was ready to allow the dollar to drift lower, either as matter of deliberate policy or of benign neglect.
But the real question is whether this kind of market intervention alone can change the mood in trading rooms around the world, or whether it will take some more fundamental policy changes.
What is striking in talking with traders is that their loss of confidence in the dollar does not seem rooted only in the trade friction between Washington and Tokyo or other ephemeral economic issues. It seems also to be fed by a more general loss of confidence in President Clinton's handling of foreign policy, the months of distractions over his and his wife's personal finances, coupled with widespread uncertainties about the fate of health care and the ability of the Federal Reserve to continue raising interest rates despite mounting political pressures against the moves from the White House.
 
Good for How Long?
 Not surprisingly, some doubt that today's intervention will be enough to firm up the American currency for long, although no one is quite sure how long it will be before traders again test Washington's resolve.
"The interventions certainly buoyed the dollar for a time," said Richard Witten, a top currency expert at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "If not for this intervention the dollar would have gone lower. But if the Federal Reserve wants to support the dollar at this general level, it will require more intervention."
In recent months, many traders have held the view that the Clinton Administration was prepared to let the dollar fall to put pressure on Japan for concessions in trade negotiations, because when the dollar falls in value against the yen it makes American exports to Japan cheaper and thus more marketable. At the same time Japanese exports to the United States become more expensive and harder to sell.
 
Realization of Problem
 American officials said, however, that they began to realize that they had a problem on their hands late last week, when the dollar began to fall sharply against the mark. Treasury officials said they felt this made no economic sense, since American interest rates were rising at the time and German interest rates were falling -- which normally would prompt traders to take money out of Germany and put it in American banks and bonds to earn higher rates. Moreover, the American economy was growing at twice the rate of the German economy, which would normally be seen as making American investments -- and the dollar -- more attractive.
While American officials were not surprised to see the dollar weakening against the yen -- given the trade friction between the two countries -- they realized there was a broader, psychological problem overriding economic fundamentals when the dollar started crumbling against the mark.
Many traders describe that problem as a loss of confidence that the Clinton Administration was ready to defend the dollar, combined with more general worries about the effectiveness of an increasingly battered Clinton Presidency. It was that psychology that American officials decided to try to change.
"The monetary authorities of the major countries are joining this morning in concerted intervention," said Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, announcing the move. "These operations reflect our view that recent movements in exchange markets have gone beyond what is justified by economic fundamentals. This Administration sees no advantage in an undervalued currency."
 
Psychology of the Bazaar
 It is difficult to gauge the psychology of global currency markets, and therefore impossible to predict how they will affect the markets in the long run. The most important thing to know in a currency market is not what the economic fundamentals are, but what traders think the economic fundamentals are.
Those are often two different things, and that is what gives currency markets their volatility. Traders factor in all sorts of data -- from economics fundamentals, to political ups and downs, to intangibles about leadership and confidence in economic management, and any one of these can move markets on any given day. Currency traders often joke that the best way to lose money is to start spending time talking to economists about long-run fundamentals.
Despite this mix of factors, today's coordinated intervention could not be ignored by the markets. The Western allies may not be able to coordinate much when it comes to dealing with the Serbs in Bosnia, but when it comes to confronting speculators trying to hammer down the dollar, the allies can get together quickly, because all of them have an economic stake in making sure the dollar does not fall too far.
The United States does not want the dollar to fall too low because not only does it involve a certain loss of prestige but it fuels inflation by making all imports more expensive, and forces the Treasury to raise interest rates to keep attracting foreigners to buy the Treasury bonds needed to finance the deficit. When the dollar is falling in value, foreigners want higher interest payments as compensation, which pushes up interest rates and slows growth.
 
Where Interests Differ
 The Western allies also do not want the dollar to fall too low because it means that their currencies are rising in value, which makes their exports more expensive in the United States. Countries like Germany and France are counting on export growth to lead them out of their economic slumps.
By strengthening the dollar, and pushing it in the opposite direction, the Fed is trying to make it both costly and unnerving for speculators to continue selling the dollar short. The key, market traders say, is to try to get the herd of speculators who have been betting against the dollar to start to turn the other way, and the only way to do that is by taking away their confidence that the Fed is ready to let the dollar drift lower. American officials certainly leave the distinct impression that they will intervene again if they are tested.
Today's intervention was most heavy to support the dollar against the mark. Reuters quoted traders as saying that monetary authorities both here and abroad spent $3 billion to $5 billion in today's effort.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; GERMANY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



102 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: In the Upheaval in Rwanda, Few Answers Yet

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, May 4

 BODY:
One month after a plane crash killed the Presidents of Rwanda and Burundi and unleashed weeks of massacres, the cause of the crash and the precise origin of the violence are still unknown.
The Rwanda military, which put together a new Government three days after the crash, refuses to allow United Nations experts near the site to find out how it happened. 
 The massacres, Government officials say, were a "popular uprising" against the country's Tutsi ethnic minority, whose rebel group was singled out as being behind the crash.
But Western diplomats, human rights groups and Rwandan refugees describe a methodical, organized violence carried out by the Rwandan military, which is dominated by members of the Hutu ethnic group.
 
Hutus, Too, Are Targets
 They say the President, Juvenal Habyarimana, was probably killed by hard-liners in his own Government worried that he was yielding to international pressure to carry out an accord bringing Tutsis into the Government. Both Presidents were returning from Tanzania, where they had attended a conference with other African leaders on ethnic violence in Rwanda and Burundi.
Some of the violence was aimed at those Hutus, described as moderates, who favored reaching agreement with the Tutsis to form a new government. One of the first targets was the interim Prime Minister, Agathe Uwilingiyimana, a symbol of the moderate Hutu opposition, who was killed by soldiers of the presidential guard along with 10 Belgian United Nations peacekeepers guarding her.
A pile of crumpled, charred metal in a green field near the eastern edge of the airstrip of the capital, Kigali, is all that remains of President Habyarimana's plane, which was downed on April 6 either as a result of being fired upon or by an explosion.
Besides barring crash investigators from the site, the Rwandan military has turned down an American offer for technical aid in the investigation. Officials say they have found the plane's black box but are too busy fighting a civil war to conduct their own investigation.
Few doubt that the target was Mr. Habyarimana, a member of the Hutu ethnic majority in Rwanda who has long been accused by moderates and human rights officials of manipulating ethnic tensions and delaying a peace agreement.
 
100,000 Believed Killed
 Tensions between the Hutus and the Tutsis have periodically exploded in violence, especially since Rwanda gained independence in 1962. The Tutsis were favored by the Beligans, who administered the country as a colonial protectorate.
Relief officials estimate that since Mr. Habyarimana's death more than 100,000 people have been killed, mainly Tutsis.
Heavy fighting continues between the Tutsi rebels of the Rwanda Patriotic Front and the Hutu-dominated Rwandan Army. Hundreds of thousands of people have fled the country.
The hastily created new Hutu Government insists that only the Tutsi rebels could have benefited from the President's death and that most of the massacres have been by the Tutsi-dominated Patriotic Front.
 
Rockets Reported Fired
 But Tutsi rebels say it was Hutu extremists in the President's party who killed their leader as part of a plot to undermine recent peace agreements. They say their forces are fighting to end the chaos and bloodshed.
There are also minor theories, widely circulated in Rwanda, about who downed the plane, including allegations on the Government radio that Belgian troops at the airport fired at it.
Witnesses say that on the day the plane crashed they saw a huge explosion and fireball at about 8:30 P.M. Belgian officers have told British journalists that they saw two rockets fired from the vicinity of a camp belonging to the Rwandan presidential guard and army commandos.
Within hours of the crash, soldiers from the hard-line Hutu presidential guard began killing all moderate members of the interim Government, both Hutu and Tutsis, virtually eliminating all opposition.
The political atmosphere before the crash and the violence afterward reflect a country torn apart by political turmoil and ethnic hatred. Although a peace agreement signed with the rebels in August called for an ethnically integrated interim government and military, little progress had been made toward political stability.
"There was very, very intensive competition for political power," said David Rawson, the United States Ambassador to Rwanda, who was evacuated along with all other Americans last month.
"The ethnic dilemma was used by different sides as a shield behind which the play for power was being done," he added. "Quite clearly there was a real system to the political assassinations. There must be some system to the mass killings as well. It's not just mayhem."
 
Leaders Seek Recognition
 Representatives of the new Hutu Government are touring European and African capitals calling for peace and diplomatic recognition. This Government does not include any Tutsis.
"We did not see any Tutsis to put in the Government," said Matthew Ngirumpatse, the chairman of the governing party. He said that the killing of Tutsis was carried out by "popular anger" and added, "It is a civic duty for people to join themselves to the army when their country is attacked."
Even though Tutsis and Hutus share the same language and culture, Rwandan history has been marked by ethnic massacres, most of them against Tutsis, who fled Rwanda by the tens of thousands.
In 1973, after increasing anti-Tutsi attacks probably organized by the military, Mr. Habyarimana, who was Minister of Defense at the time, took over in a military coup.
 
Ethnic Violence Continues
 Originally hailed as a popular and honest leader, Mr. Habyarimana lost support after years of increasingly repressive rule and economic stagnation. An invasion by 10,000 Tutsi guerrillas of the Rwanda Patriotic Front in 1990 and pressure from international donors served as a catalyst for an agreement aimed at transforming a one-party dictatorship into a multi-party system.
Despite a fragile cease-fire and the signing of the peace accord in August, ethnic violence, in particular against the Tutsis, continued as the governing party felt its exclusive control threatened.
The human rights groups Amnesty International and Africa Watch have said Mr. Habyarimana bore special responsibility for the violence in recent years. His party, the Republican Movement for Democracy and Development, armed its supporters, especially the party youth militia, to kill known rebel sympathizers.
"In the early 1980's Habyarimana's popularity started to slip and he felt threatened," said Alison DesForges of Africa Watch. "He became bitterly anti-Tutsi after 1990. It was a scapegoat kind of mentality to focus all your hatred on these people."
 
Tensions Grow in Burundi
 Tensions within the Hutu-dominated Government increased significantly after a failed coup last October in neighboring Burundi, a country that shares the same ethnic division.
The Tutsi-dominated Burundi Army killed the first democratically elected Hutu President, Melchior Ndadaye. More than 80,000 people were killed in two months of massacres and hundreds of thousands of Hutus fled to Rwanda. In Rwanda, the military stepped up the arming of Hutu militias and Mr. Habyarimana consolidated his Hutu support.
By December, political infighting had divided the opposition Hutu parties into moderates and hard-liners.
"Habyarimana used Burundi to persuade his people that the Tutsi threat was real," Ms. DesForges said. "It was a pretext for the hard-line Hutus in Rwanda. There was plenty of paranoia and fear. This is not a tribal conflict but a coldblooded, ruthless, cynical plot."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With violence continuing in Rwanda, hundreds of thousands of people have fled to neighboring countries. At a Red Cross center in Ngara, Tanzania, a refugee lept over an irrigation trench after collecting water. (Reuters)
 
Map shows the location of Kigali, Rwanda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: RWANDA (94%); BURUNDI (94%); KENYA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA; BURUNDI; RWANDA (94%); BURUNDI (94%); KENYA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (55%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; HUTU TRIBE; TUTSI TRIBE AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ETHNICITY (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); AIRLINES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA; HABYARIMANA, JUVENAL (PRES) JUVENAL HABYARIMANA (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



103 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2766 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST ACCORD;
Framework for Peace: Agreement Between Israel and the P.L.O.

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the text of the accord signed in Cairo yesterday by Israel and the P.L.O. on Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. The text was issued by the Israeli Foreign Ministry without the annexes or maps.
The Government of the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (hereinafter "the P.L.O."), the representative of the Palestinian people; 

 
 
PREAMBLE
WITHIN the framework of the Middle East peace process initiated at Madrid in October 1991;
REAFFIRMING their determination to live in peaceful coexistence, mutual dignity and security, while recognizing their mutual legitimate and political rights;
REAFFIRMING their desire to achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive peace settlement through the agreed political process;
REAFFIRMINGtheir adherence to the mutual recognition and commitments expressed in the letters dated Sept. 9, 1993, signed by and exchanged between the Prime Minister ofIsrael and the chairman of the P.L.O.;
REAFFIRMING their understanding that the interim self- government arrangements, including the arrangements to apply in the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area contained in this agreement, are an integral part of the whole peace process and that the negotiations on the permanent status will lead to the implementation of Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338;
DESIROUS of putting into effect the Declaration of Principles on interim self-government arrangements signed at Washington on Sept. 13, 1993, and the agreed minutes thereto (hereinafter "the Declaration of Principles"), and in particular the protocol on withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area;
HEREBY AGREE to the following arrangements regarding the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area:
 
ARTICLE I
 Definitions
For the purpose of this agreement:
a. the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area are delineated on map Nos. 1 and 2 attached to this agreement;
b. "the Settlements" means the Gush Katif and Erez settlement areas, as well as the other settlements in the Gaza Strip, as shown on attached map No. 1;
c. "the Military Installation Area" means the Israeli military installation area along the Egyptian border in the Gaza Strip, as shown on map No. 1; and
d. the term "Israelis" shall also include Israeli statutory agencies and corporations registered in Israel.
 
ARTICLE II
 Scheduled Withdrawal of Israeli Military Forces
1. Israel shall implement an accelerated and scheduled withdrawal of Israeli military forces from the Gaza Strip and from the Jericho Area to begin immediately with the signing of this agreement. Israel shall complete such withdrawal within three weeks from this date.
2. Subject to the arrangements included in the protocol concerning withdrawal of Israeli military forces and security arrangements attached as Annex I, the Israeli withdrawal shall include evacuating all military bases and other fixed installations to be handed over to the Palestinian police, to be established pursuant to Article IX below (hereinafter "the Palestinian Police").
3. In order to carry out Israel's responsibility for external security and for internal security and public order of Settlements and Israelis, Israel shall, concurrently with the withdrawal, redeploy its remaining military forces to the settlements and the Military Installation Area, in accordance with the provisions of this agreement. Subject to the provisions of this agreement, this redeployment shall constitute full implementation of Article XIII of the Declaration of Principles with regard to the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area only.
4. For the purposes of this Agreement, "Israeli military forces" may include Israeli police and other Israeli security forces.
5. Israelis, including Israeli military forces, may continue to use roads freely within the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area. Palestinians may use public roads crossing the settlements freely, as provided for in Annex I.
6. The Palestinian police shall be deployed and shall assume responsibility for public order and internal security of Palestinians in accordance with this Agreement and Annex I.
 
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Authority
1. Israel shall transfer authority as specified in this agreement from the Israeli military government and its civil administration to the Palestinian authority, hereby established, in accordance with Article V of this agreement, except for the authority that Israel shall continue to exercise as specified in this agreement.
2. As regards the transfer and assumption of authority in civil spheres, powers and responsibilities shall be transferred and assumed as set out in the Protocol Concerning Civil Affairs attached as Annex II.
3. Arrangements for a smooth and peaceful transfer of the agreed powers and responsibilities are set out in Annex II.
4. Upon the completion of the Israeli withdrawal and the transfer of powers and responsibilities as detailed in paragraphs 1 and 2 above and in Annex II, the Civil Administration in the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area will be dissolved and the Israeli military government will be withdrawn. The withdrawal of the military government shall notprevent it from continuing to exercise the powers and responsibilities specified in this agreement.
5. A Joint Civil Affairs Coordination and Cooperation Committee (hereinafter "the C.A.C.") and two joint regional civil affairs subcommittees for the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area respectively shall be established in order to provide for coordination and cooperation in civil affairs between the Palestinian authority and Israel, as detailed in Annex II.
6. The offices of the Palestinian authority shall be located in the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area pending the inauguration of the council to be elected pursuant to the Declaration of Principles.
 
ARTICLE IV
Structure and Composition of the Palestinian Authority
 1. The Palestinian authority will consist of one body of 24 members which shall carry out and be responsible for all the legislative and executive powers and responsibilities transferred to it under this agreement, in accordance with this article, and shall be responsible for the exercise of judicial functions in accordance with Article VI, subparagraph 1.b. of this agreement.
2. The Palestinian authority shall administer the departments transferred to it and may establish, within its jurisdiction, other departments and subordinate administrative units as necessary for the fulfillment of its responsibilities. . . .
3. The P.L.O. shall inform the Government of Israel of the names of the members of the Palestinian authority and any change of members. Changes in the membership of the Palestinian authority will take effect upon an exchange of letters between the P.L.O. and the Government of Israel.
4. Each member of the Palestinian authority shall enter into office upon undertaking to act in accordance with this agreement.
 
ARTICLE V
Jurisdiction
 1. The authority of the Palestinian authority encompasses all matters that fall within its territorial, functional and personal jurisdiction, as follows:
a. The territorial jurisdiction covers the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area territory, as defined in Article I, except for settlements and the military installation area. Territorial jurisdiction shall include land, subsoil and territorial waters, in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
b. . . . This jurisdiction does not include foreign relations, internal security and public order of settlements and the military installation area and Israelis, and external security.
c. The personal jurisdiction extends to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction referred to above, except for Israelis, unless otherwise provided in this agreement.
2. The Palestinian authority has, within its authority, legislative, executive and judicial powers and responsibilities, as provided for in this agreement.
3. a. Israel has authority over the settlements, the military installation area, Israelis, external security, internal security and public order of settlements, the military installation area and Israelis, and those agreed powers and responsibilities specified in this agreement.
b. Israel shall exercise its authority through its military government, which, for that end, shall continue to have the necessary legislative, judicial and executive powers and responsibilities, in accordance with international law. . . .
 
ARTICLE VI
Powers and Responsibilities of the Palestinian Authority
1. Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the Palestinian authority, within its jurisdiction:
a. has legislative powers as set out in Article VII of this Agreement, as well as executive powers;
b. will administer justice through an independent judiciary;
c. will have, inter alia, power to formulate policies, supervise their implementation, employ staff, establish departments, authorities and institutions, sue and be sued and conclude contracts; and
d. will have, inter alia, the power to keep and administer registers and records of the population, and issue certificates, licenses and documents.
2. a. In accordance with the Declaration of Principles, the Palestinian authority will not have powers and responsibilities in the sphere of foreign relations, which sphere includes the establishment abroad of embassies, consulates or other types of foreign missions and posts or permitting their establishment in the Gaza Strip or the Jericho area, the appointment of or admission of diplomatic and consular staff, and the exercise of diplomatic functions.
b. . . . The P.L.O. may conduct negotiations and sign agreements with states or international organizations for the benefit of the Palestinian authority in the following cases only:
(1) economic agreements, as specifically provided in Annex IV of this agreement;
(2) agreements with donor countries for the purpose of implementing arrangements for the provision of assistance to the Palestinian authority;
(3) agreements for the purpose of implementing the regional development plans detailed in Annex IV of the Declaration of Principles or in agreements entered into in the framework of the multilateral negotiations; and
(4) cultural, scientific and educational agreements.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
ARTICLE VII
Legislative Powers of the Palestinian Authority
1. The Palestinian authority will have the power, within its jurisdiction, to promulgate legislation, including basic laws, laws, regulations and other legislative acts. . . .
3. Legislation promulgated by the Palestinian authority shall be communicated to a legislation subcommittee to be established by the C.A.C. (hereinafter "the Legislation Subcommittee"). During a period of 30 days from the communication of the legislation, Israel may request that the Legislation Subcommittee decide whether such legislation exceeds the jurisdiction of the Palestinian authority or is otherwise inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement.
4. Upon receipt of the Israeli request, the Legislation Subcommittee shall decide, as an initial matter, on the entry into force of the legislation. . . .
 
ARTICLE VIII
Arrangements for Security and Public Order
 1. In order to guarantee public order and internal security for the Palestinians of the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area, the Palestinian authority shall establish a strong police force, as set out in Article IX below. Israel shall continue to carry the responsibility for defense against external threats, including the responsibility for protecting the Egyptian border and the Jordanian line, and for defense against external threats from the sea and from the air, as well as the responsibility for overall security of Israelis and settlements, for the purpose of safeguarding their internal security and public order, and will have all the powers to take the steps necessary to meet this responsibility. . . .
3. A joint Coordination and Cooperation Committee for mutual security purposes (hereinafter "the J.S.C."), as well as three joint District Coordination and Cooperation Offices for the Gaza district, the Khan Yunis district and the Jericho district respectively (hereinafter "the D.C.O.s") are hereby established as provided for in Annex I. . . .
 
ARTICLE IX
The Palestinian Directorate or police force
 1. The Palestinian Authority shall establish a strong police force, the Palestinian Directorate of Police Force. . . . The duties, functions, structure, deployment and composition of the Palestinian police, together with provisions regarding its equipment and operation, are set out in Annex I, Article III. . . .
 
ARTICLE VIII
2. Except for the Palestinian police referred to in this article and the Israeli military forces, no other armed forces shall be established or operate in the Gaza Strip or the Jericho area.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
ARTICLE XII
Relations Between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
1. Israel and the Palestinian authority shall seek to foster mutual understanding and tolerance and shall accordingly abstain from incitement, including hostile propaganda, against each other and, without derogating from the principle of freedom of expression, shall take legal measures to prevent such incitement by any organizations, groups or individuals within their jurisdiction.
2. . . . Israel and the Palestinian authority shall cooperate in combatting criminal activity which may affect both sides.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
ARTICLE XVIII
Prevention of Hostile Acts
 Both sides shall take all measures necessary in order to prevent acts of terrorism, crime and hostilities directed against each other, against individuals falling under the other's authority and against their property, and shall take legal measures against offenders. In addition, the Palestinian side shall take all measures necessary to prevent such hostile acts directed against the settlements, the infrastructure serving them and the military installation area, and the Israeli side shall take all measures necessary to prevent such hostile acts emanating from the settlements and directed against Palestinians.
 
ARTICLE XX
 Confidence-Building Measures
 With a view to creating a positive and supportive public atmosphere to accompany the implementation of this agreement, and to establish a solid basis of mutual trust and good faith, both parties agree to carry out confidence building measures as detailed herewith:
1. Upon the signing of this agreement, Israel will release, or turn over, to the Palestinian authority within a period of five weeks, about 5,000 Palestinian detainees and prisoners, residents of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Those released will be free to return to their homes anywhere in the West Bank or the Gaza Strip. Prisoners turned over to the Palestinian authority shall be obliged to remain in the Gaza Strip or the Jericho area for the remainder of their sentence.
2. After the signing of this agreement, the two parties shall continue to negotiate the release of additional Palestinian prisoners and detainees. . . .
 
ARTICLE XXI
Temporary International Presence
1. The parties agree to a temporary international or foreign presence in the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area (hereinafter "the T.I.P."), in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
2. The T.I.P. shall consist of 400 qualified personnel. . ., including observers, instructors and other experts, from 5 or 6 of the donor countries. . . .
5. The T.I.P. shall be stationed and operate within the following cities and villages: Gaza, Khan Yunis, Rafah, Deir el Balah, Jabaliya, Abasan, Beit Hanun and Jericho. . . .
 
ARTICLE XXIII
 Final Clauses
1. This agreement shall enter into force on the date of its signing.
2. The arrangements established by this Agreement shall remain in force until and to the extent superseded by the interim agreement referred to in the Declaration of Principles or any other agreement between the parties.
3. The five-year interim period referred to in the Declaration of Principles commences on the date of the signing of this agreement. . . .

 	 	 		. . .	 	7. The Gaza Strip and the Jericho area shall continue to be an integral part of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, and their status shall not be changed for the period of this agreement. Nothing in this agreement shall be considered to change this status. . .

GRAPHIC: Photo: The signing of the accord for Palestinian self-rule in Jericho and the Gaza Strip almost derailed yesterday when the P.L.O. chairman, Yasir Arafat, balked over a map defining the boundaries of the Jericho enclave. The Israeli Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, left, looked on as his Foreign Minister, Shimon Peres, tried to persuade Mr. Arafat to sign. The impasse was resolved after 35 minutes of talks that also involved Secretary of State Warren Christopher, right, and other mediators. (Reuters)
 
Chart: "PEACE SETTLEMENT: Major Points of the Accord on Palestinian Autonomy"
 Israel is to complete its withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho within three weeks.
A Palestinian authority was established as of the signing of the agreement yesterday. It will consist of 24 members and have legislative and executive powers.
With the signing, the five-year interim period begins for negotiating a permanent solution on the fate of the occupied territories and the relationship between Israel and the Palestinians.
Israel retains authority over the Jewish settlements, a military base along the Egyptian border and external security, including the frontier crossings to Egypt and Jordan. Three east-west roads from the settlements to Israel will be the main routes for settlers to cross autonomous areas. Israel will have overall responsibility for these roads, but they will be patrolled jointly by Palestinian police and Israelis.
Jewish settlements and the main military base will continue receiving the same amount of drinking and agricultural water. Israel will tell the Palestinians how much water is used.
The Palestinians will establish a police force of up to 9,000 officers, including 7,000 from outside the territories. They will be equipped with light personal weapons, 120 machine guns and 45 wheeled armored vehicles. Their spouses and children can also return.
Israel will release about 5,000 Palestinian prisoners within a period of five weeks, and the two sides will continue to negotiate the release of additional detainees.
A committee will be created to consider the repatriation of Palestinians displaced from the Gaza Strip and West Bank in the 1967 Middle East war. Palestinians say as many as 800,000 could be eligible.
There will be safe passage for Palestinians between the Gaza Strip and Jericho. Travellers will have to carry special permits and take specific routes.
A temporary international presence of 400 observers, instructors and other experts from five or six donor countries will be deployed for a six-month term that can be renewed. Their role is not precisely defined.
The two parties have agreed to continue discussing three major, unresolved issues: the size of the Jericho area, the stationing of a Palestinian official at the Allenby Bridge crossing to Jordan and security arrangements at the Rafah crossing to Egypt.

(Source: Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); EGYPT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) STRIP AS (85%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (94%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (94%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; JERICHO; GAZA STRIP; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); EGYPT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); 

SUBJECT: TREATIES; PALESTINIANS TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); MILITARY BASES (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



104 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
The United States teamed up with the central banks of 16 nations to buy dollars in a global campaign intended to show investors that the Clinton Administration is serious about maintaining the dollar's value. [Page A1.]
Stock prices were mixed as traders closely followed the turbulence in the bond and currency markets. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 16.66 points, to 3,697.75. [D10.]
Treasury prices and yields bounced up and down as investors showed skepticism over the Federal Reserve's defense of the dollar. The yield on the 30-year bond slipped to 7.33 percent. [D17.]
Beef prices tumbled to their lowest levels since December 1991, as rich supplies weighed on the market. [D20.]
 
Companies
The torrid growth of auto sales eased in April, climbing 4.9 percent. Auto makers attributed the slowdown to factors including shortages of some best-selling models, rising interest rates and bad weather. But industry analysts were pleased with the results. [D1.]
LDDS Communications is offering $2 billion to acquire Wiltel Communications Systems. [D1.]
National Health Laboratories agreed to buy Allied Clinical Laboratories in a deal valued at about $220 million. [D4.]
Southwest Airlines started its own computer reservations system to combat moves by rival carriers to curb travel agents' access to its schedules and fares. [D4.]
Time Warner Cable has put into effect a hiring freeze and plans to cut capital expenses by $100 million this year because of rate cuts imposed by Federal regulators. [D4.]
Forty-six companies have responded to a challenge by Northeastern governors to help reduce packaging waste. [D4.]
 
 The Economy
Farmers are pushing themselves and their equipment to the limits to get their spring planting done as quickly as possible. [D1.]
A Congressional study will recommend that the S.E.C. be given broad new powers to regulate dealers and corporate users of complex financial instruments known as derivatives. [D1.]
The economy is growing solidly in most of the nation except California, the Federal Reserve said, as the Government reported a surge in factory orders. [D19.]
Representative John D. Dingell is investigating an F.C.C. decision to grant radio licenses free to three companies. [D7.]
The F.D.A. is imposing stricter rules on food labels. [A20.]
 
 International
A Vietnamese delegation has come to the United States to seek foreign investment, marking the first such visit since the American trade embargo was lifted in February. [D1.] Moscow money managers have visited Wall Street in their search for ways to revive the Russian economy. [D9.]
Spanish police arrested the former governor of the Bank of Spain and the former chairman of Madrid's stock market on charges of tax fraud. [D2.]
State-run industries in China are diversifying in an effort to deal with cash-flow problems. [A10.]
 
Today's Columns
Gaza and Jericho are likely to find their main chance for growth lies in economic embrace with Israel, even though they are becoming autonomous areas. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Japanese investors have been placing their bets on Ford Motor by bidding up the shares of Mazda, which is 25 percent owned by Ford. Market Place. [D10.]
Occasionally, an advertisement becomes part of the popular culture, succeeding beyond an agency's wildest dreams. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); LUV (NYSE) (55%); TWC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC8071 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (78%); VIET NAM (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); ALLIED CLINICAL LABORATORIES INC (55%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (78%); VIET NAM (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (75%); BEEF (74%); CASH FLOW (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); ARRESTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); TAX FRAUD (69%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); FOOD LABELING (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AIRLINES (66%); TRAVEL AGENTS (66%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (66%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (64%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (63%); TAX LAW (62%); GOVERNORS (58%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



105 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Slip From March Pace

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 4

 BODY:
After car buyers unexpectedly stampeded showrooms in March, the torrid growth of auto sales eased in April to a 4.9 percent jump, compared with a strong period a year earlier.
Auto makers whose sales growth slowed pointed to several factors in reporting their totals today, from shortages of some best-selling cars and trucks to rising interest rates. Regardless of the explanation, auto industry analysts, who perversely regarded the March news as too good, were delighted with the more measured pace of April. 
 "The bond market will be encouraged by the numbers, since they show the economy is slowing down somewhat from the first-quarter pace, on the auto side," said David M. Garrity, an auto industry analyst for McDonald & Company, a securities firm in Jersey City. Investors in auto companies will also be reassured, he predicted, since the sales jump of 19.7 percent in March had raised fears that the auto sales boom might peak sooner than 1996 or 1997, the peak predicted by many analysts.
 
 
 
'Comforting' News
 Jack Kirnan, the auto analyst for Salomon Brothers, called the results "extremely comforting." Given high levels of consumer confidence, combined with low consumer debt burdens and an aging fleet of vehicles on the road, Mr. Kirnan expressed no doubts that the recovery remained on track. "We've got close to six million units of pent-up demand left to be satisfied in the U.S. market," he said.
Many dealers said their biggest problem remained low inventories. "The demand is there and the supply isn't," said Ron Hughes, general manager of Diehl Chevrolet-Cadillac in Lewisburg, Pa. "We could use 50 percent more vehicles than we have in stock."
Dealers said they expected sales to stay strong through 1994, although some expressed fears that rising interest rates, combined with price increases announced this week by the Big Three, could scare away consumers. "Higher prices mixed with higher interest rates could hurt," said Billy Bruce, Ford new car sales manager at Blount/Strange Automotive Group in Montgomery, Ala.
 
Sales Up for Light Trucks
 Over all, dealers sold 1,306,385 vehicles in April, including imports, up from 1,244,950 a year earlier. Sales of light trucks -- pickups, mini-vans, and sport utility vehicles -- grew 9.5 percent, from 476,748 to 521,977. Car sales grew 2.1 percent, from 768,202 to 784,408.
The seasonally adjusted selling rate for cars was 7.4 million units, up from 6.9 million a year earlier, but down from 7.6 million in March.
The three domestic auto makers set truck sales records for April. In total, the Big Three lost a small amount of their overall vehicle market share to Japanese companies but the monthly results varied widely by company.
While the Toyota Motor Corporation lost some ground, the Honda Motor Company posted strong gains, as sales of the new Honda Accord surged 44 percent, to 32,751. The robust sales appear to have resulted partly from an attractive lease offer Honda has promoted for the car.
The General Motors Corporation saw its sales drop slightly. While its light-truck sales climbed 4.9 percent, to 168,135, its car sales slipped 4.1 percent, to 269,460, dragging down G.M.'s total sales in the period by eight-tenths of a percent.
G.M. attributed the drop in car sales in part to its effort to decrease less profitable sales to car rental companies. Also, G.M. pointed to low inventories of its Chevrolet Lumina sedan. Since November, G.M. has been retooling the Oshawa, Ontario, factory where it builds the Lumina, and it has slowly begun to produce a redesigned model.
Other companies appear to have had more success managing their inventories. The Chrysler Corporation entered April with lower dealer supplies of cars and trucks than either G.M. or the Ford Motor Company. Yet Chrysler had the biggest sales increases, with its light truck sales rising 13.6 percent and its car sales gaining 4.7 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table of U.S. vehicle sales in April 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (81%); 7267 (TSE) (81%); TYT (LSE) (81%); TM (NYSE) (81%); 7203 (TSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (81%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (81%); MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; SHORTAGES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); MARKET SHARE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); BONDS (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



106 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Credit Bill Passed in Senate

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4

 BODY:
The Senate passed a sweeping bill today to make it easier for consumers to fix erroneous credit reports so they are not denied loans. It would also require credit reporting agencies to maintain accurate files and correct wrong information within 30 days.
 The bill, which passed by a 87-to-10 vote, would be the first big overhaul of the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970. The full House is expected to act soon on similar legislation. 
 Consumers could get one report a year at a cost of no more than $3 under the Senate bill. The unemployed, welfare recipients and fraud victims could get free copies. Reports now cost $8 or more, although TRW Inc., one of the largest credit reporting companies, offers consumers free reports.
 Consumers could dial a toll-free number to contact big credit bureaus, which operate computer data bases brimming with financial information that help determine whether individuals get access to credit or land jobs.
 Credit reporting agencies would have to notify a person before reinserting data that had been previously removed.
 The bill would also make it easier for individuals to insure that the information in their credit files is not used by catalogue companies or other direct marketers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (70%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FAIR CREDIT REPORTING ACT; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (92%); CREDIT REGULATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); DIRECT MARKETING (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



107 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: The Gun Minority Flexes Muscle

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4

 BODY:
Foreigners cannot understand it. Neither can Americans who live in cities where neighborhoods are terrorized by guns and gangs. How can it be that the overwhelming majority of Americans say they favor stronger Government restrictions on firearms, yet Congress even has trouble controlling civilian possession of rapid-fire weapons originally designed for military and police use.
The answer is that Americans who oppose gun control tend to feel much more strongly about the issue than than do those who favor it. 
 Politicians read polls showing that 80 percent of Americans favor outlawing assault weapons, but they doubt that very many of their constituents who are part of that 80 percent will vote for or against them solely on the basis of their vote on the issue.
On the other hand, many politicians feel sure that their position on gun control will be the main factor determining how their constituents in the 20 percent minority will vote in the next election.
 
Showdown in House
 "If you polled my district, it would be a tossup," said Representative Jim Chapman, a Democrat from rural East Texas. "But all the calls are against it."
The matter will come to a head Thursday, when the House votes on whether to prohibit the manufacture, sale or possession of 19 types of weapons that were designed fully automatic weapons for military use but semiautomatic models of them are increasingly the weapons of street violence.
Staff assistants in the White House and Congress who are carefully keeping track of how the vote is likely to go said this afternoon that they expected the gun-control measure to be defeated narrowly, but they cautioned that the tally was so neck and neck that the outcome could change overnight.
Several lawmakers who had announced their opposition to the bill switched sides today and said they planned to vote for it. One, Peter I. Blute, a freshman Republican who represents small towns in central Massachusetts, said his mind had been changed by complaints from police officers in his district that they were being outgunned.
As a result of the switches, Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is leading the fight for the bill, said today that his side was only 5 to 10 votes behind and gaining. On Tuesday, he had put the gap at 15 votes.
President Clinton made a strong appeal for the measure at a meeting with administrators of municipal housing authorities and law-enforcement officers. He, Vice President Al Gore, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and Attorney General Janet Reno spent much of the day calling undecided lawmakers.
The Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley, refused to predict the result of Thursday's vote, telling reporters, "It has definitely been moving toward a closer vote."
Mr. Foley, who comes from a rural district in eastern Washington where hunting is the sport of choice, is opposing the White House on this issue, the first time he has done so on a major vote since Mr. Clinton became President.
The proponents do not really believe that outlawing assault weapons would have much effect on crime. And the opponents do not really believe that such a ban would seriously intrude on the lives of law-abiding gun owners.
But both sides view the issue symbolically, as a foot in the door toward more restrictive gun laws like a prohibition of handguns or a requirement that all weapons be registered with the authorities.
Experts in public opinion say that American attitudes on firearms have shifted in the last decade as gun-related violence has increasingly dominated the news.
"Today if you vote for gun control, you can gain votes," said Peter Hart, a Democratic pollster.
But Congress seems to be somewhat behind the public curve on the issue, in part because many representatives who staked out a position against gun control years ago are loathe to be seen as flip-flopping.
"It's hard for us to win converts from their side," said Wayne R. LaPierre Jr., executive vice president of the National Rifle Association. "It's tough for them to win converts from our side."
Advocates of gun control have been saying for years that the rifle association's influence is waning. Maybe so. But stories are legion about the fighting ability of its army of more than 3 million members.
This is one issue in which party politics carries little weight. Three former Presidents -- Gerald R. Ford, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan -- sent a letter to Congress today supporting the ban on assault weapons. If Democrats seem to be stronger proponents of gun control than Republicans, it is largely because lawmakers from cities tend to be Democrats.
Conservative Republicans from urban areas like Susan Molinari from Staten Island and Henry J. Hyde and John Edward Porter, who represent suburbs of Chicago, plan to vote for the bill on Thursday. Representatives David R. Obey, who comes from northern Wisconsin, and Pat Williams of Montana are among the prominent liberal Democrats from rural areas who have announced their opposition.
When his fellow liberals, try to change his mind, Mr. Obey, a sophisticated legislator who once was chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and now heads the powerful Appropriations Committee, explains how shooting squirrels and hunting game are a way of life in his rural district and how any restrictions on guns are at best an imposition.
If New Yorkers and San Franciscans have trouble understanding this, foreigners are completely baffled. "In most of the developed world," said the British magazine The Economist this spring, "guns are the province of policemen, hunters, marksmen and certain criminals." But in the United States, the magazine's editors went on in amazement, guns "are so ordinary, so common, they have become part of the furniture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials say supporters and opponents of a ban on semiautomatic weapons are so closely divided in the House that the fate of the bill is uncertain. Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, talked to a reporter as he accompanied Attorney General Janet Reno to a meeting on the gun bill. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GUN CONTROL FIREARMS (92%); GUN CONTROL (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (72%); AL GORE (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



108 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Vietnamese Delegation Seeking American Capital

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

 BODY:
Like many Vietnamese of his generation, Pham Chanh Truc protested against the American military presence in Vietnam. He was jailed once, escaped and worked eight years in the Vietcong underground before he was caught and jailed again. When Communist forces drove out the South Vietnamese Army in 1975, Saigon became Ho Chi Minh City and Mr. Truc joined its new Government.
Now, nearly two decades later, as vice chairman of the People's Committee of Ho Chi Minh City, Mr. Truc is leading the first Vietnamese delegation to the United States since the American trade embargo was lifted in February. With an ambitious two-week tour to drum up financial investment for the city, the Vietnamese are, in effect, inviting Americans back to Vietnam.
 
Forgoing Pride for Technology
 "I don't think I wasted my prime years," Mr. Truc said in an interview last week as the delegation headed to the headquarters of Pepsico in Somers, N.Y. "I did the thing I believed in, the right thing, fighting for the independence and sovereignty of Vietnam. So I don't think this is an irony for me, but an advantage. I was able to participate in the first phase of gaining back our country, and I am still here, participating in its construction." 
 If the trip might strike some Americans as audacious, Mr. Truc viewed it through a lens of pragmatism and economics. With so much of Vietnam's essential services and facilities in need of repair, much of it because of "the American war," as many Vietnamese call it, the delegates are turning to a country of proven engineering and technological skills, not to mention wealth.
Ho Chi Minh City is the economic engine of Vietnam, with 60 percent of the industrial output and 27 percent of the gross national product, according to the city's latest economic reports. Its population last year was about four and a half million, well above the three million-plus of Hanoi, the capital, in the north.
Yet beyond the city's threshold attempts to seek American financing for new ports, bridges, airfields, telecommunications, natural resource development and roads, the trip to New York and Boston last week, California and Seattle this week, was also planned to help Vietnam establish relationships with American interests at a time when few exist.
The countries have no normal diplomatic relations, and only a handful of big American companies, including Pepsi, Coca-Cola and Mobil, have substantial operations in Vietnam.
Further, many American companies are not likely to invest heavily until Vietnam gains most-favored-nation trading status, a designation that would enable it to export its goods to the United States under the lowest tariff rates.
American experts in United States-Vietnam relations predict that gaining preferential trade status could take two years or more, largely because of lingering concern over American servicemen still listed as missing in action, and the controversy raised in the 1992 campaign over President Clinton's draft avoidance during the Vietnam War.
With an obvious need for funds, Mr. Truc said, Ho Chi Minh City is willing to be patient. The cover article in last week's issue of The Saigon Times, a Government-subsidized weekly magazine, included a headline that said the country "urgently needs foreign investment" to develop adequate electricity supplies. And that is only one area of major need.
 
Playing the America Card
 But the reasons Ho Chi Minh City and the rest of Vietnam appear eager to have Americans back might not be be altogether economic.
Rather, the experts say that an expanded American presence in Vietnam would serve as a strategic buffer against other nations in the region, particularly China, whose economic might provides great advantages over developing nations like Vietnam.
Thomas J. Vallely, director of the Vietnam Program at the Harvard Institute for International Development, cited as one hedge against China Hanoi's decision to grant Mobil exploration rights to the Blue Dragon oilfield in the South China Sea. "A wise decision," he said of the grant.
Two years ago, China signed a contract with another American company, the Crestone Energy Corporation, for rights to explore waters nearby.
A recent analysis of Vietnam's economic situation by a team of Japanese and American scholars said the country also worried about China's dumping of cheap consumer goods in Vietnam and its building of airstrips on the Spratly Islands, disputed by the Chinese and the Vietnamese.
"The Vietnam Government is not only anxious, it is almost desperate to have an American presence in the country," said Irwin Jay Robinson, president of the Vietnam-American Chamber of Commerce in New York. The organization sponsored a business seminar for the visiting delegation last week.
While the lifting of the American embargo by President Clinton in February was a watershed in the old adversaries' relationship, and the expected precursor to normalized trading, this green light hardly unleashed a heavy flow of business traffic into Ho Chi Minh City.
One reason is that the Communist Government lifted its clamps on private enterprise in 1986, ushering in waves of investment from Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, France and Malaysia. Companies from those areas all have a huge step up on American businesses, especially those that would make products for the domestic market.
Imagine a land in which Marlboro, made by the Philip Morris Companies, is not among the leading foreign cigarettes. In Vietnam, the best-selling brand is 555, from B.A.T. Industries of Britain.
 
Want More Than Wage Advantage
 More than $3 billion in foreign capital is currently financing about 300 projects in the metropolitan area, Mr. Truc said.
The vast majority of that is from countries other than the United States. Until American interests can identify specific advantages for investing in Vietnam, there is little reason to expect change. While companies like Caterpillar and Boeing are eager to sell bulldozers and aircraft to satisfy Vietnam's development needs, far more American companies need more favorable trading conditions to tap the obvious benefits of skilled but cheap labor.
"We're in a never-never land kind of relationship," said Virginia Foote, president of the United States-Vietnam Trade Council in Washington. "American companies are allowed to sell and invest in Vietnam, but they have no real opportunity to buy. The support system to provide that is just not available."
For all the exchanges and contacts they expected to make on their trip, not even a week had passed before Mr. Truc and other members of his delegation reflected a degree of resignation over any sudden increase in American interest. They acknowledged that they would wait at least two years for Congressional consideration of favored trade status for Vietnam.
 
Sugar-Coating Defiance
 Cao Van Quoi, chairman of the city's planning committee, said the visitors had "a long way to go to accomplish" their mission, adding, "I am encouraged by the spirit of cooperation, but I don't think we can have any tangible results right away."
In the meantime, Mr. Truc said Ho Chi Minh City would seek other options. "We're not looking for any specific country to fill the void," he said sharply. "We seek cooperation and building good relations with all countries. If the United States does not come to us fully, we can always go on with partnerships in other countries."
But lest he sound too dismissive of the country he once said he "hated with all my guts," Mr. Truc quickly added, "I would like to reiterate, however, that the United States is a big partner, and we would welcome America to our country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A trade delegation from Vietnam is visiting the United States to attract American investment. Pham Chanh Truc, left, chatted last night in San Francisco with Mayor Frank Jordan and his wife, Wendy Paskin, right. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (94%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; CHINA; HO CHI MINH CITY (VIETNAM); UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (94%); CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; VIETNAM WAR PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: TRUC, PHAM CHANH; JANOFSKY, MICHAEL PHAM CHANH TRUC (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



109 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Life as a Watershed Irks Putnam County;
New York City Tightens Regulations, and 46 Developers Fire Back by Filing Suit

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BREWSTER, N.Y.

 BODY:
The water that percolates through the soil and courses down the streams of Putnam County is the same water that eventually gushes out of hundreds of thousands of taps in New York City 60 miles to the south. So, for almost a century, the fate of this small, no longer bucolic county has been hitched to the city's thirst for clean water.
But the county's strong-willed residents have never quite thought of themselves as just a watershed, some appendage to a big city, and many say they have become tired of being pushed around by the Goliath to the south.
 
Even Harsher Rules
 Residents complain that the city, to protect its water and avoid spending $8 billion on treatment plants, has stepped up enforcement of long-ignored regulations for sewage treatment and storm-water drainage, forbidding the construction of household septic tanks and asphalt parking lots. In the next few weeks, the city plans to publish even harsher rules that county residents say will make it impossible or prohibitively expensive to build new businesses and homes and will derail the resurgent economy of a county that is two-thirds watershed. 
 Last month, a group of 45 Putnam developers and one Westchester developer filed a $9 billion suit against New York City, charging that their property has been devalued without fair compensation. Beyond Putnam, 34 towns and 5 villages in a second watershed that runs from the the Catskills to the Delaware River filed a similar suit charging economic harm.
"Instead of saying, 'let's work together,' they have bullied everyone," said Thomas Bisogno, a writer and real estate agent who supports the suit. "Even if you had a small office park they would find ways of slowing it down or making it expensive to do the job."
One Putnam litigant, Jack Forbes, said that he once proposed building 60 homes on Quaker Hill Road in Patterson and received all the necessary local approvals. But he said the city objected that his land was too steep for the septic systems he was planning and would send inadequately treated water into streams feeding the watershed. Now, after investing more than $1 million, he has despaired of building anything larger than a 10-home development, disappointing his investors.
"They've ruined my name, my business, my reputation in this town without due process of law," Mr. Forbes said.
New York City officials, and some environmentalists, respond that the city must act to stem the degradation of its water. Marilyn G. Gelber, the city's environmental protection commissioner, said she must enforce regulations that have been in place since 1953 and strengthen them in line with "new thinking" about watershed protection. But, she adds, she wants to do so in consultation with Putnam officials.
"The strong preference is that we settle it over a conference table rather than a courtroom," she said.
For a city struggling with fiscal problems, there is a major economic incentive to protect the watershed. On Dec. 30, Federal regulators gave the city three years to prove it can safeguard the watershed, or else it must spend up to $8 billion to build massive filtration plants. The city has already earmarked at least $439 million during the next three years to acquire 80,000 acres of additional protected land, to upgrade sewage treatment plants in the watershed and for other programs.
But as critics point out, the city's own house is not in order. It runs nine sewage plants in the watershed that have long been in disrepair and have violated state guidelines.
The debate is complicated by another of Putnam's uses: as a rustic retreat for New Yorkers. For decades, New Yorkers driving to summer houses in the Berkshires or Columbia County or Putnam could leave their urban tensions behind when Route 684 turned into Route 22. There it became a mostly two-lane country road flanked by grazing cattle and roadside stands where farmers sold fresh apple pies. A stop at the Red Rooster Drive-In, an old-fashioned takeout place famed for its quick hamburgers, hot dogs and milkshakes, has been de rigueur.
 
A Wave of Development
 But a wave of development during the mid-1980's erased much of the pastoral feel, bringing glass-skinned corporate parks, streamlined shopping centers, and sprawling housing developments. These days, only 1 percent of Putnam earns its living by farming.
David C. Gordon, who monitors reservoirs for the Hudson Riverkeeper Fund, an environmental group, supports the city's new discipline. He says Putnam is turning itself into a suburb like Westchester.
"We're taking a natural resource, our natural landscape, our towns, and turning them into junk," he said.
Many Putnam residents, if not most, want development, however, because it brings jobs and tax revenues that help pay for schools and other services. Mr. Gordon argues that such reasoning is specious. The new office parks and homes, he says, eventually require more services, actually increasing the tax burden.
A study prepared for Putnam says that the city's new regulations will cost the county 3,190 jobs by the year 2,000 and increase taxes by 16 percent.
 
A Watershed Identity
 It is difficult to overestimate how much of Putnam's identity is interwoven with the watershed, the vast network of reservoirs and streams from Westchester to the Catskills from which New York draws its water. Two-thirds of Putnam's 231.5 square miles is watershed, and its demarcation as a watershed preserved the county's rural character. One-third of the county's 84,000 residents drink the same water as New Yorkers.
The city obtained almost unparalleled authority over its watershed lands earlier in this century. The State Legislature gave it the right to acquire properties far outside its own borders that would be flooded as reservoirs and it added the power to regulate how other land draining into those reservoirs could be used.
For decades, the city did not enforce many of its regulations. No one cared much at first because Putnam was remote from the suburban pressures transforming Westchester. But with the arrival of Interstates 84 and 684, businesses and commuters were attracted to relatively inexpensive Putnam. In 1980, for example, Putnam granted 199 residential building permits. By 1986 that number leaped to 944.
Four years ago, New York realized that unrestricted development was beginning to erode the taste and purity of Putnam water and began cracking down. The city, the litigants say, has gone too far, turning down two out of every three septic tank proposals in some towns and stalling on others, crippling home building and renovation.
The outcry against the city's watershed regulations has not been as great in northern Westchester, lawyers bringing the suit say, because the area is built up and development pressures have not been as intense.
Three years ago, the city drafted tougher regulations that it expects to publish within weeks. They would require office buildings, shopping centers and factories to build individual sewage treatment plants that discharge their filtered water into the ground, not into streams as most now do. Critics say that only a few spots in the county have soil that could accommodate discharges in line with city standards.
The number of new homes has indeed fallen, from the peak of 944 permits in 1986 to 297 last year. But Michelle Powers, a county planner, says that while regulations have had "a chilling effect," what "really stopped these projects is the economy."
Not everyone in Putnam supports the lawsuit, including its County Executive. Risking the hostility of the County Legislature, the County Executive, Robert Bondi, prefers to negotiate and persuade New York officials to allow county agencies to enforce most watershed regulations. That, he says, would eliminate one more bureaucratic hurdle in the cumbersome process of winning approvals for construction.
He and the litigants agree, however, that Ms. Gelber has been far more open to compromise than her predecessor in the Dinkins administration, Albert F. Appleton.
The lawsuit here has been spearheaded by Edward R. Heelan, a major developer whose small converted schoolhouse of an office overlooks the Middle Branch reservoir. Mr. Heelan, a burly, ruddy-faced surveyor and one of Putnam's largest builders, likes to point out projects that have been stopped by the city's newfound enforcement effort.
 
Individual Approvals
 Mr. Heelan showed a reporter one housing development, Crosby Hills, that was to consist of 49 houses. Only three, he said, have been occupied because the city has been approving each septic tank individually. Most of the corridor of gleaming office buildings and malls along Route 22 could not have been built under the city's proposed regulations, he said.
An ally of Mr. Heelan's, Harold Lepler, owns a lot overlooking Interstate 84 that was to be developed as a storage depot for Safety-Kleen Corporation, a company that recycles used motor oil from gas stations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the waters of Putnam County, the crosscurrents run deep. Some two-thirds of it is a watershed for New York City, and its purity means billions of dollars not spent on treatment plants. Many residents, though, feel their prosperity has become the victim of the stringent pollution controls. George Ryer fished in Middle Branch Reservoir. (Dan Cronin for The New York Times)
 
Map: Two-thirds of Putnam County is the Croton Watershed. Map of Croton Watershed and surrounding area. (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PUTNAM COUNTY (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; SUITS AND LITIGATION AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COUNTIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); DUE PROCESS (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITIES (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); MOUNTAINS (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



110 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Are Mixed Despite Dollar Defense

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Investor skepticism about how serious a defense the Federal Reserve is mounting for the dollar caused prices of Treasury securities to bounce up and down before ending mixed yesterday, analysts said.
A coordinated intervention by the Fed and foreign central banks yesterday morning in support of the dollar had a positive effect on the market, they said, before stronger-than-expected data for factory orders cut the rally short. 
 Matthew F. Alexy, a government-trading strategist for CS First Boston, said bond prices failed to recover fully despite the intervention because many investors concluded that the central bank was intervening just to stabilize rather than to strengthen the dollar.
The 30-year bond rose 3/32 , to 871/32 and a yield of 7.33 percent, down from 7.35 percent yesterday. Shorter-maturity bills were mixed, with the rate for a three-month issue unchanged at 4.03 percent and a six-month bill up a basis point, to 4.44 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 
Factory Orders Rise
 Factory orders for March rose 1.1 percent, the seventh increase in eight months. The increase was more than expected by many economists and reinforced the market's fears of faster economic growth and higher inflation. The result was lower bond prices, as investors sold amid rumors that the Federal Reserve would raise rates sooner than May 17, which is the date of the next scheduled meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary-policy-making arm.
Some analysts said there was widespread talk that the Fed would increase the Federal funds rate, its target for short-term interest rates, and the discount rate, the rate it charges on loans to member banks, as the intervention to support the dollar was taking place. Most speculation centered on a move of half a percentage point on both rates. The reason for such rate increases is that they would give more punch to the dollar intervention as well as stem the bearish trend in the bond market.
Bond prices stayed lower until late afternoon, when the Treasury announced the size of its quarterly auction, which is next week, and Detroit issued its monthly car sales reports.
The Treasury said it would sell $29 billion in three-year and 10-year notes next week to raise $775 million in new cash. Donald Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Securities, said, "The absence of any great surprise on the size of the refunding and sales of motor vehicles that were a shade below expectations enabled the market to do a little better."
Ahead of next week's quarterly auction, the three-year note began trading on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 6.29 percent and the 10-year note at a price to yield 7.09 percent.
 
Denver Bonds Downgraded

 
In the municipal market, the Denver airport revenue bonds were little changed yesterday, even after Moody's Investors Service lowered the debt rating on $3.2 billion of the securities, traders said.
Because of the city's recent decision to delay the opening of the new airport indefinitely, the rating agency dropped the credit rating of the securities to Baa, from Baa1. The Baa rating is the lowest investment grade Moody's gives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CURRENCY TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



111 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Russians Tour Temples of Capitalism

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
For a Russian of not so long ago, bristling with ideology, a trip to Wall Street would have seemed like Daniel being cast into the lion's den.
But for Leon Asrian and 24 other emerging capitalists from Moscow and Siberia, their visit earlier this week to the world's financial capital was not only a long-sought education but also a delicious chance to gawk. 
 Huddled high above the New York Stock Exchange in the visitors' center, they smiled down at the din of bustling capitalist tools. Later, a few blocks away and 80 feet underground, the Russians swooned at the sight of 10,500 gleaming tons of foreign gold stored at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. (To their disappointment, none of the more than 200 trillion rubles worth of gold is believed to be Russian.)
 
Helping Russia's Economy
 "I don't consider myself a Marxist at all," said Mr. Asrian, a wiry international-currency expert with thick aviator-style glasses and sad eyes. "Karl Marx was not a silly man. He was a very wise man. But that is politics, this is economics. I want to make some improvements to our country. That is why I am in your country."
Mr. Asrian, 30 years old, said Russia "is headed for disaster and we must fix it." He noted that bread that once cost 40 kopecks, or 0.4 ruble, now costs 300 rubles. "Russian bread is good, but it is not that good," he said.
In the post-cold-war era, when senior Russian military officers can tour American nuclear-missile silos as television cameras from "60 Minutes" look on, a visit by Russians to Wall Street may not seem unusual.
But this visit is part of a larger pilot program, organized jointly by the United States Treasury Department and the financier George Soros, that is intended to prepare the participants for the more lasting problems of post-cold-war peace and an exhausted Russian economy.
 
25 Russian Executives
 Mr. Asrian is part of a group of 17 men and 8 women from Russia, mostly in their 30's. They are executives from Government and newly privatized financial institutions, such as banks and trade and planning departments, as well as from new ventures like a hotel and a construction company in Siberia.
They were chosen by the Treasury Department and the Soros Foundation, an organization in New York established by the Hungarian-born billionaire to promote the exchange of financial expertise between the United States and Russia and Eastern Europe.
Since mid-April, the Russians have lived in Washington, D.C., attending classes in banking, accounting, insurance and other financial matters.
On Monday, they will begin internships at major American corporations and Government agencies. Mr. Asrian, for example, will work at Riggs National Bank in Washington, learning about banking. Others will work at MCI Communications, Mobil, Marriott International, the Federal Reserve Bank and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
A Bourse-and-Bullion Tour
 Earlier this week, Mr, Asrian and the other Russians, none of whom had visited America before, traveled by bus to Wall Street. Shuffling into the narrow visitors' center of the stock exchange, they were greeted with visitor's guides written in Russian.
Most were taken aback by the swirl of hundreds of stock traders on the floor of the exchange -- except, perhaps, for Mr. Asrian. "I am sure this is interesting," he said, nodding his head. "But I am always sleepy. It is eight hours different in Moscow, you know?"
Indeed, other Russians could be seen nodding gently, not always in concentration, during a briefing at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. They perked up when they went several stories underground and behind a 240-ton steel door to see $118 billion worth of gold.
Later, over a lunch of fried catfish ("What is this, cat and fish?") and mashed potatoes in a Greenwich Village barbecue restaurant, Mr. Asrian talked about what brought him to the United States.
A specialist in international currency, Mr. Asrian is deputy chairman of Mashbank, a small bank started by Moscow entreprenuers and Government officials. The bank's assets are 9 billion rubles, but they are barely worth $5 million -- if they could be exchanged in the world's financial markets, which they cannot.
Technically speaking, Mr. Asrian is a millionaire several times over in rubles, but at current market rates in Moscow his 1-million-ruble-a-month salary is equivalent to about $555.
Under the turbulent Government of Mikhail Gorbachev, Mr. Asrian worked as an economist and financial expert. He is a 1984 graduate of the Moscow Institute of National Economy, where he studied "state supply."
"You ask what that is?" Mr. Asrian said, smiling. "It means that when you are a business and apply to the central authority for a necessary item, you learn whether to cut the request by a half or by three-quarters."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leon Asrian, foreground, a Russian currency expert, and other emerging capitalists from Russia, touring the New York Stock Exchange. The visit was part of a program to help the nation revive its exhausted economy. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PNC BANK NA (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK; TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SIBERIA; UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); TRENDS (70%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (63%); 

PERSON: SOROS, GEORGE; RAMIREZ, ANTHONY GEORGE SOROS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



112 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Reports Show Economy Growing Solidly

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4

 BODY:
The economy is growing solidly in most of the nation except California, the Federal Reserve said today, as the Government reported a surge in March factory business.
 The Fed's so-called beige book report on activity across the country underlined the pickup in the economy in the spring after two months of exceptionally severe winter weather. 
 "Solid economic growth is reported in most parts of the country," said a summary prepared by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco that included comment from all 12 district banks. It was a much stronger assessment of the economy's vigor than the last summary in March, which reported only moderate expansion.
 Price rises were restrained by competition, the Fed said, an encouraging sign that inflation was under control.
"It's more evidence the economy is on a brisk growth path and that so far the inflation genie is being kept in the bottle," said an economist, Robert Dederick of the Northern Trust Company in Chicago.
 In another economic report, the Commerce Department said factory orders shot up 1.1 percent in March to a seasonally adjusted $274.7 billion -- more than double Wall Street economists' expectations of an increase of five-tenths of a percent. Orders fell three-tenths of a percent in February.
 The Fed survey, which covers the period up until the end of April and is more current than the Commerce Department report, said that manufacturing companies continued to do booming business.
 "Production of autos, vehicle parts, steel and building materials is near capacity," the Fed said.
 Despite signs that some industries were reaching production limits, which could drive prices higher, the Clinton Administration professed no concern about inflation. Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich, speaking to reporters at the White House, said: "There is no inflation on the horizon at all. Incomes are growing, but they are not growing in any ways that would signal inflation."
 The report on March factory orders showed broad-based strength. The Commerce Department said last week that orders for long-lasting durable goods, like computers and cars, which account for about half of total factory business, rose in March by four-tenths of a percent. But it revised that upward in today's report to show a stronger increase of eight-tenths of a percent.
 Orders for nondurable goods, like paper products and food, rose 1.4 percent in March after a 1.5 percent February gain.
 The Commerce Department also said February factory orders did not weaken as much as previously estimated. Instead of being down 1 percent, they fell only three-tenths of a percent.
 Several recent reports on the nation's manufacturing sector point to a spring revival after exceptionally harsh weather in January and February, including the devastating California eathquake. On Tuesday, the Government said its broad-based index of leading indicators rose strongly in March after two months of relative sluggishness.
The March factory orders report showed orders for transportation equipment fell 1.4 percent after a 9.2 percent February drop. Excluding transportation, factory orders rose 1.5 percent in March -- the strongest monthly increase since a 3.2 percent gain in December 1992 -- after a 1.3 percent February increase.
 Shipments of manufactured goods, which reflect more immediate demand than orders, gained by nine-tenths of a percent, to a seasonally adjusted $274.3 billion, after a 1.3 percent rise in February. Order backlogs increased for the second time in three months, rising one-tenth of a percent in March to a seasonally adjusted $446.6 billion.
 
Home Prices Rise
 Separately, the National Association of Realtors said home prices rose in most metropolitan areas. The national price of homes was $107,400, up 3.5 percent from a year earlier. The association said its metropolitan home price survey showed that the median price for existing single-family homes ranged from a low of $48,100 in the Waterloo-Cedar Falls area of Iowa to a high of $355,000 in Honolulu. A median price is the midpoint, with half the homes selling for more and half selling for less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NORTHERN TRUST CORP (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



113 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Unpaving the Parking Lot, So to Say, and Putting Up Paradise

BYLINE: By BARBARA GAMAREKIAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 4

 BODY:
When the residents of a low-income housing project in a drug-ridden section of northeast Washington were invited to name their newly rehabilitated buildings, they chose proud names: Miracle Court, Harmony Court, Freedom Court, Justice Court.
"We called the first building Miracle because the whole business took a while, and we were amazed when it actually came about," said Cathy Jordon, a resident of the project since 1979. 
 Bill Hamilton, a 27-year resident and retired postal worker who volunteers at the project's community center, explained: "This place was just mud in the winter and dust in the summer and little square boxes. We've got grass now, and the exteriors are gorgeous, and we feel as safe as any place in town."
Rising like a phoenix out of a treeless, muddy wasteland is Paradise at Parkside, as the complex is now called, and it signals the rebirth of the Parkside neighborhood. It was in 1985 that a nonprofit church group, the Gospel Spreading Church, approached Marilyn Melkonian, a Washington lawyer, and asked her assistance in rehabilitating the half-empty, dilapidated housing project that the church had built in the 1960's.
"The place was rampant with drugs, and people were leaving in droves," Ms. Melkonian recalled. "They were looking for a partner, someone to show them the way."
Ms. Melkonian, who was the deputy assistant secretary for housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development in the Carter Administration, had never been a developer. "I didn't even know if I was that interested," she said. "But when I went out there, I fell in hate with it: the physical condition, the lack of anything attractive."
In late 1986, she organized a new ownership group, putting together a $21 million package in public and private financing. The cinderblock-and-brick exteriors of the nondescript 650-unit complex were a challenge, but the cinderblock was covered with stucco, ugly concrete stoops were demolished, gables were added to the roofs of the 15 barrackslike buildings and oval cornices were placed over the doorways.
"Some buildings were as long as a football field, and without gabling, it looked like a prison," said Ms. Melkonian, who believes good design is cost-effective. "It's essential to the longevity of the project. Good design can't save it from bad conditions, but absent those conditions, it can flourish."
The one- to four-bedroom apartments rent for $450 to $650, and about 250 of the 650 households receive rent subsidies. The median household income is $16,000 a year.
Suman Sorg of Sorg & Associates in Washington was the architect for the renovations, and Paradise was awarded a Pillar of the Industry Award by the National Association of Home Builders in 1990 as an example of what it called "the best in multifamily rehabilitation."
The overall cost, $33,000 a unit, is considered modest in the rehab business, said Gloria Cousar of HUD's Office of Severely Distressed and Troubled Housing Recovery. "It is a remarkable accomplishment," she said. "It took a lot of time, but the residents provided leadership, the developer was progressive and had a lot of foresight and commitment, and everyone hung in there together."
Families moved from building to building during the five-year transformation as new roofs and electrical, heating and air-conditioning systems were installed.
Ms. Melkonian hired James van Sweden of the landscaping firm of Oehme, van Sweden & Associates in Washington -- whose clients include Oprah Winfrey and David Brinkley -- to make the desolate space beautiful. Low wrought-iron fences surround each of the buildings to create front yards and a sense of private space. There are now small terraces where residents can sit and chat, winding brick walkways, wooden benches, lampposts with frosted globes, a wading pool with dolphins that spout water, and a multitude of flowering trees and perennials.
On a recent spring weekend, children on skateboards and bicycles whizzed by, and teen-agers played basketball on the half court near the wading pool.
"Getting the utility lines buried was one of Marilyn's great triumphs -- it was two years of pressuring Pepco," said Mr. van Sweden, referring to the Potomac Electric Power Company. "And she insisted walkways be six feet wide so people could walk side by side. She has a tremendous appreciation for how the whole feeling of community is expressed in outdoor space."
But none of this would have worked, Ms. Melkonian and Mr. van Sweden said, if residents had not joined in efforts to banish the pervasive drug market that made Paradise scary turf. Tunnel-like covered walkways connecting parking lots to the entry courts of buildings offered a haven for drug deals and muggings. The walkways are now brightly lighted. With the cooperation of other residents, more than 60 families were evicted for selling drugs, and members of the Nation of Islam from a nearby mosque were invited to assist in community security patrols.
"The neighborhood still has its problems," said Sgt. Robert Garaffo of the District of Columbia Police Department's Sixth District, which includes Paradise at Parkside. "But it is a dramatic change from what it was. We still have disorderlies and disputes, but most of the drug traffic has disappeared, and it is much safer." Since the renovations, he added, "people tend to take more responsibility, and there is a real neighborhood community there now."
Tenants were involved in planning their new community from the beginning, forming a resident council and participating in focus groups to identify community needs. A $500,000 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services provided job training and classes in setting up a household budget and how to buy a home. The grant also underwrote the construction of a day-care center and the focal point of the complex: a community center that offers arts and crafts classes, movie nights and after-school programs. A computer-equipped learning center provides tutoring for students.
More than 100 residents are now employed in construction, property management and maintenance jobs at Paradise and the neighboring Parkside complex. "Some people had a lot of disbelief, but they take pride in this place now," said Mark Phillips, a three-year resident whose company, Paradise Builders, constructed the community and day-care centers and provided training in the building trades.
Young People on the Rise, an ad hoc group begun in 1987 by 27 teen-agers under the stewardship of James Gibbons, then the president of Consumers United Insurance, guarantees financial support for any student who wants to go to college. And Paradise tenants have organized themselves into a cooperative, said Mrs. Jordon, its president, with the goal of buying their apartments.
Ms. Melkonian's company is also overseeing the construction of 100 moderately priced town houses (52 of which have already been sold) at Parkside, adjacent to the Paradise complex. The appealing Victorian-style houses with copper turrets, gas fireplaces, hardwood floors, nine-foot-ceilings, tiled baths and fenced patios sell for $97,000 to $141,000 and are available to families with incomes ranging from $25,000 to $45,000.
Ms. Melkonian, who graduated from Brooklyn College in 1965 and received a law degree from Stanford University, dates her involvement in community issues to 1967, a summer of urban riots and racial unrest when she was intern for Senator Edward W. Brooke, Republican of Massachusetts. Later, came a stint of working on housing issues in New York as a lawyer and four years at HUD, followed by a job in California as general counsel to the film producer George Lucas.
Ms. Melkonian, who is 49, is now dividing her time among three cities. In Miami, she is developing a plan for Dade County to apply for designation as one of six Federal Empowerment Zones, to encourage business and housing development. In Yonkers, she has been appointed as a special housing master by Judge Leonard B. Sand of Federal District Court in Manhattan to advise on the construction of privately owned affordable housing. And in Washington, her company is coordinating a development on Capitol Hill. A 1941 public housing project will be razed, and in its place, about 175 town houses will be built for residents with a mix of income levels, up to $50,000.
The name of her company, Telesis, comes from the Greek, meaning "achieving a desired end through intelligent effort," Ms. Melkonian said.
The investment in communities that have been written off, she said, "is returned manyfold: in stronger communities, stable families and healthier kids, all the common-sense things that we know are true."
But given the poverty and violence of the urban area that surrounds Paradise and Parkside, can this oasis of serenity prevail? Or will decay and obsolescence eventually take over?
"If the community stays together, it will remain beautiful," she said. "The key is the community and the strength and ability to protect itself and care about each other."
Typical of her somewhat cosmic thinking is a starburst of patterned brick in the main courtyard of Paradise. It forms a large compass.
"I thought it would be nice for folks to be able to orient themselves to the rest of the world," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Children frolicking in the wading pool at the revitalized housing complex now called Paradise at Parkside. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SORG ASSOCIATES NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SORG ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; PUBLIC HOUSING BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); CITIES (68%); RELIGION (67%); 

PERSON: SORG, SUMAN; GAMAREKIAN, BARBARA MARILYN MELKONIAN (90%); VAN SWEDEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



114 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
Nixon's Last Word on the World

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

Beyond Peace
 By Richard Nixon
 Illustrated. 262 pages. Random House. $23.
Of the dead speak nothing but good, it is said. But a book remains alive, even when published posthumously. So to any reader impatient with the recent canonization of the 37th President of the United States, the first to be forced to resign from office, let it be said that there is lots to find fault with in Richard Nixon's 10th and final book, "Beyond Peace," which he completed just a few weeks before he died. 
 He offers no apologies or expressions of rue in this final summing up of his views, or any acknowledgment of error. There is nothing even personal, unless you count his observation that Boris N. Yeltsin's inclination to become depressed after winning a battle "is not an uncommon characteristic of leaders." Or his remark that "those of us who complain about the behavior of today's media must remember that similar complaints are as old as the republic."
That familiar clang of inauthenticity sounds in these pages. You encounter his old tendency to aggrandize: he calls "the defeat of Iraqi aggression in the Persian Gulf war in the spring of 1991" one "of the greatest events of the 20th century," and he writes that "America is the greatest, most successful social experiment in the history of man."
You find so many examples of strained quotation that you picture Mr. Nixon sitting in his study crushed by volumes of Aquinas, Irving Babbitt, Isaiah Berlin, Brandeis, Burke, Churchill, Lord Curzon, Engels, Goethe, Hobbes, Eric Hoffer, Ibsen, Kant, Malraux, Nietzsche, Pushkin, Schumpeter, Toynbee, Weber, Wellington and, of course, Tocqueville, to mention but a handful of the heavyweights cited in these pages.
And he exercises his old habit of vividly recalling how great leaders of the past sat him on their knees and told him such-and-such. "It was the Russians who defeated Napoleon," he writes, "and as President Eisenhower once told me, it was the Russians who, after incredible suffering and sacrifice, played the indispensable and primary role in defeating Hitler," as if someone with Eisenhower's perspective were required to reveal this not exactly well-hidden secret.
Still, for all its irritations, "Beyond Peace" is Mr. Nixon's best book. The former President was always strongest writing about foreign policy, and the present book was completed shortly after the much-publicized visit to Russia during which he met with several opposition leaders, over President Yeltsin's objections. Where Mr. Nixon tended to slight the Soviet Union in favor of China in some of his earlier books, here he treats post-Soviet Russia in concrete and arresting detail.
Mr. Nixon even includes a touch of unwonted humor in an account of an interview in March with Gen. Aleksandr V. Rutskoi that was made difficult by "the simultaneous and totally incomprehensible conversation between two large parrots in separate cages in the middle of Rutskoi's sitting room." Mr. Nixon adds, "The birds were not speaking English, and I knew enough Russian to know they weren't speaking Russian." As it turned out, "they spoke only Malaysian."
Out of these and more weighty details grow the larger messages of Mr. Nixon's book. These are roughly that the end of the cold war represented a victory of American free-market capitalism over Soviet command-economy communism, and that because the terms of this conflict are still relevant to the world, the United States must continue to exert international leadership by waging the peace as actively as it conducted the war.
Having developed these points with regard to the present situation in Russia, which he considers dire but by no means hopeless, Mr. Nixon then takes us on a tour of the globe. He points to the Clinton Administration's failure in Bosnia as an instance of shirked responsibility, although he offers no alternate proposal beyond lifting "the embargo against the victims of Serbian aggression." He argues that economic freedom in China will lead to political freedom and that we should therefore not revoke China's most-favored-nation status. "Today, China's economic power makes U.S. lectures about morality and human rights imprudent. Within a decade, it will make them irrelevant. Within two decades, it will make them laughable. By then the Chinese may threaten to withhold most-favored-nation status from the United States unless we do more to improve living conditions in Detroit, Harlem and South-Central Los Angeles."
Mr. Nixon is less provocative and more predictable when he comes home and takes a tour of domestic issues. True, he makes you stop and think when he points out that the national debt ought to be reduced not by tax increases but by cuts in the Federal budget, 40 percent of which is devoted to non-means-tested entitlements, or payments to those who have the means to take care of their own needs. Or when he asserts that Paul Kennedy, the Yale historian, is wrong when he argues that the United States has become militarily overextended, if only because Mr. Kennedy and other critics "missed the essential point that the proportion of G.N.P. consumed by America's defense spending in 1953 was twice the share of G.N.P. spent at the height of the Reagan military buildup."
But such arresting specifics are few and far between. The problem, as Mr. Nixon readily admits, is that setting the goals of peace is a good deal harder than defining the objectives of war. Mr. Nixon believes that the ultimate solution to the ills that beset America is a return to traditions like church and proper child-rearing. But he is hard put to explain how to undertake this spiritual journey, so he is forced to fall back on mere exhortation and assertion.
He writes seemingly without irony that we cannot solve our problems "unless we return to the principles that made this country great." You wonder if he felt any twinge of discomfort wheeling out a cliche as worn as this one. Or was he so moved by the idea that the words struck him as if newly minted? Reading "Beyond Peace," you end up pondering the familiar mysteries of Richard Nixon once again.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Richard Nixon. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: BEYOND PEACE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GULF STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GULF STATES (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); DESERT STORM (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS RICHARD NIXON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



115 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: A Wall Falls in Jericho

 BODY:
It may be days, weeks or even months before Israelis and Palestinians grasp the meaning of the autonomy accord signed in Cairo yesterday. The small print spells out the terms of limited self-rule that will apply imminently to the town of Jericho and the Gaza Strip. But it is the big print that truly matters: after years of strife, bitter antagonists have come together on a formula first proposed at Camp David in 1978 that will permit Israeli forces to withdraw honorably from West Bank territories that Israel seized in the defensive 1967 war.
In short, millions of words about the "Middle East peace process" have been translated, finally, into deeds. A wall has fallen once again in ancient Jericho; within three months, limited Palestinian self-rule is to be extended throughout the rest of the West Bank. This has happened despite acts of desperate terrorism by a fanatic core of Arabs and Jews who view these steps to peace as treason. Whether they succeed depends on the momentum of a deal struck between a pragmatic Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, and his enemy-turned-partner, Yasir Arafat, the P.L.O. chairman. 
 There are promising omens. Mr. Arafat needs to show positive results, quickly, to Palestinians skeptical about an arrangement that falls far short of statehood. Propitiously, the World Bank and the P.L.O. have hammered out a three-year aid program, drawing on $2.4 billion in pledges from 40 donor countries. And there are signs that Washington's strategy -- to reach simultaneous Arab-Israeli agreements on all fronts this year -- may yet work.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who was present for the signing of an accord he helped midwife, has been patiently leaning on Syria's President, Hafez al-Assad, for concessions essential to dismantling Israeli settlements on the formerly Syrian Golan Heights. At the risk of provoking an uproar among settlers allied with his own Labor Party, Mr. Rabin has talked of a real withdrawal in return for a real peace. Mr. Assad is beginning, however haltingly, to discuss substance, which for Syria is progress.
As important is evidence of Israel's new status in the post-cold-war world. Last week Mr. Rabin became the first Israeli Prime Minister to visit Moscow in an official capacity. He won promises that Russia will supply only non-offensive weapons and spare parts to its Arab customers. Israel's new clout is directly related to its willingness to yield land for peace on the West Bank, and to engage the only Palestinian leader with international standing.
This is not to ignore the unremitting threat of terrorism, especially if hopes raised by yesterday's accord are not swiftly addressed. All the more reason for Israel and the P.L.O. to tie up vital loose ends like the disputed boundaries of Jericho, and whether Palestinians can post guards on the Allenby Bridge connecting the West Bank to Jordan.
It is a paradox that old and bitter adversaries find it easier to agree on big issues than on lesser matters that repeatedly bog down negotiations. Yet with each step forward, Israel and the P.L.O. deepen their investment in a successful outcome.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); SYRIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; JERICHO; GAZA STRIP; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); SYRIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; PALESTINIANS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); TERRORISM (77%); COLD WAR (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



116 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Increases in Wages Don't Create Inflation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"A Different Take on the 'Myth' of Inflation" (letters, April 27), three responses to the April 15 Op-Ed article by Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, criticize her on tactics, but not on principle. 
 Discussions generated by Federal Reserve Board increases in interest rates, which were designed to decelerate economic growth, have focused on keeping unemployment above 6 percent (9 million people). Economists agree on the need to slow down economic growth, but disagree on action now to keep unemployment high. Ms. Tyson says not yet, predicting unemployment will anyway remain above her proposed floor of 5.9 percent to 6.3 percent.
The theory that wages push up inflation has been used to justify a 20-year downtrend in real wages in the face of rising productivity. This combination has accelerated income inequality -- more billionaires at the top; more poverty at the bottom.
The wage-push theory is contrary to such concepts of justice as the human rights resolution of the United Nations: the right of all people able and willing to work to have a job.
And it is economically flawed. Prices are determined by the balance of demand and supply on the market for goods, often manipulated upward by private monopoly or government production limitations on supply. Wages are determined by the balance of forces between employers and workers, and the resulting division of the proceeds between capital and labor. The consumer market and the labor market are independent.
Labor's share has been so slashed in the last 20 years that it would take a very large increase, far beyond anything foreseeable, to restore the formerly prevailing distribution.
The most rapid rise in prices has been in pharmaceuticals, where wages are only 6 percent of value added by manufacture. Hardly wage-push inflation here. And Ms. Tyson unwittingly provides another example. She states that if unemployment remains high and wages low, which she expects, "the economy seems well positioned to experience a decade-long phase of steady growth and modest inflation, such as it did from the mid-1950s to the mid-1960s."
Her research is half-right and all wrong. Indeed, between 1955 and 1965 consumer prices increased only 1.6 percent a year, the lowest for any postwar decade. But wages went up twice as fast: 44 percent, or 20 percent in real terms. And unemployment averaged well below the "inflationary" range cited by Ms. Tyson and others.
No. Measures are required to reduce unemployment sharply, through shorter hours without reduction in pay, large-scale programs of public works, of housing, education, environment -- programs that require the employment of millions of workers. And inflation should be prevented by curbing price gouging by private monopolies and by ending government price increases, as in postal rates and transit fares.
 
VICTOR PERLO
Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., April 27, 1994
The writer is an economic consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); TRENDS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); POSTAL RATES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA (CHMN); PERLO, VICTOR JOSEPH C PAPA (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



117 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Increases in Wages Don't Create Inflation;
Unite, You Unemployed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Growth of Jobs May Be Casualty in Inflation Fight" (front page, April 24) reports the concern of the Federal Reserve Board and many economists that the danger of inflation would increase if unemployment fell below its 6.5 percent rate. The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates three times to slow the economy so that fewer jobs will be created. 
 The net effect of this policy is to deprive the 8.5 million individuals unemployed (and some 6 million who have been locked into involuntary part-time jobs) of the hope of finding decent-paying, full-time work. Thus, the unemployed, victims of the recession, are victimized again now that the economy has strongly recovered.
In 1978, Congress passed the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Employment Act. It set a governmental target of a 4 percent unemployment rate to allow for structural changes in the economy and the movement of workers seeking new jobs. Some reputable economists thought the 4 percent rate too high. Yet, since then, unemployment has never declined below 5 percent, and today, in what is described as a booming economy, the unemployment rate is stuck at 6.5 percent, with many cities and states experiencing even higher rates.
It is questionable that there will be such a surge of rehiring that employers will have to pay higher wages to attract workers and thus stimulate a rise in inflation. The trend among corporations has been to shrink employment opportunities by using labor-saving technology, downsizing work forces and moving factories overseas to low-wage countries. One economist you quote says of this country's unemployed workers, "We need this pool to meet the normal demands of the labor market."
It is apparent that we are receiving a replay of the scenario of "The Forgotten Man" of the 1930's, but with this difference: whereas during the Great Depression there were organizations of the unemployed that fought militantly in their behalf, today no such organizations exist. The unemployed are politically powerless and easy targets to be dumped on. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. beset with many problems, has shown little interest in actively championing the unemployed.
In the end, the unemployed themselves may need to develop their own leaders.
 
HARRY KELBER
Brooklyn, April 25, 1994
The writer is a retired professor of labor studies at Empire State College, SUNY.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EMPLOYMENT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: KELBER, HARRY

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



118 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
PRICES RAISED FOR U.S. SALES OF HONDA AND ACURA MODELS

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Honda North America said yesterday that it had raised sticker prices on Honda and Acura vehicles. The company raised prices for Honda passenger cars an average of 1.1 percent, or $185 a car, and increased the price on its new Honda Passport sport utility vehicle an average of 0.97 percent, or $211 a vehicle. The company cited inflation and higher operating costs for the change. Including the increases, prices for Honda passenger cars range from $9,500 for the Civic CX Hatchback to $25,400 for the Prelude Si 4WS with automatic transmission. Honda said prices at its Acura luxury division were up an average of nine-tenths of 1 percent, or $254 a car.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (90%); 

COMPANY: HONDA OF AMERICA MANUFACTURING INC; ACURA DIVISION OF AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA OF AMERICA MANUFACTURING INC; ACURA DIVISION OF AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES PRICE INCREASES (93%); PRICE CHANGES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



119 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: If Not Born to Win, Expected To

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BOSTON, May 3

 BODY:
"Never let them see you sweat," says William F. Weld, reflecting the patrician style that has taken him from Harvard to the top job in the criminal division of the Reagan Justice Department to the Republican governorship of one of the nation's most Democratic state.
He prides himself on his vacations at his family camp in the Adirondacks, where he goes fishing on a private lake, reads Yeats and dines on trout and venison cooked by his guide. Back in Boston, the millionaire Governor plays squash three afternoons a week. "I love sort of lying around on the weekend," Mr. Weld, who lives in Cambridge with his wife and five children, said in a recent interview. "I enjoy not working as much as I enjoy work itself." 
 Whether, as some critics suggest, it is part of a calculated image -- Bill Weld, the natural, born to win -- or whether it is the real Bill Weld, he is expected to glide to victory this fall in his bid for a second term.
None of his three Democratic opponents are well known. The prominent Democrats who might have given him a race, including Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, have decided not to take him on. After tantalizing voters for weeks, former Mayor Raymond L. Flynn of Boston, now the Ambassador to the Vatican, said last week that he would not run.
 
Support From Top Democrat
 The most powerful Democrat in a Legislature controlled by Democrats, William M. Bulger, president of the Senate, has practically endorsed the Governor. "He's up for re-election, and most of us would just as soon keep him around," Mr. Bulger said recently.
It is not politics as usual in this bastion of liberalism and Kennedys. "This was a one-party state under Dukakis," said James Braude, the head of the Tax Equity Alliance of Massachusetts, a citizens group, and a longtime Weld critic. "Now it's a one-party state under Weld, only it's the other party. His political skills are stunning."
Michael S. Dukakis, defeated in the 1988 Presidential election by George Bush, was Governor of Massachusetts from 1974 to 1978 and 1982 to 1990.
For Mr. Weld, a 48-year-old moderate Republican, the Governor's job is his first in elected politics. With his libertarian streak, he says, it is a natural fit for him to be fiscally conservative but liberal on gay rights and abortion. He won by a margin of three percentage points in 1990, elected by Democrats who could not bring themselves to vote for his opponent, John R. Silber, the president of Boston University.
 
Voters Blamed Dukakis
 The state was going through a fiscal crisis, and the voters blamed Mr. Dukakis and his liberal spending policies. "Just as you couldn't have had a Ronald Reagan without Jimmy Carter, you couldn't have had a Weld without a Dukakis," said Kevin Phillips, a Washington political analyst.
Mr. Weld, who has professed admiration for Mr. Reagan's management style, believes in minimalist government. "That goes on social issues as well as fiscal issues," he said. "Out of your pocketbook, out of your bedroom."
He signed legislation last year making it illegal to discriminate against homosexuals in public schools. And he has supported abortion-rights legislation that lowers the age of parental consent to 16, though his position on abortion has shifted. In early 1989 he described himself as "modified pro-choice," saying he opposed public financing for abortions. He won the election with a platform supporting the right to abortion.
His views, which he affirmed at the 1992 Republican Convention in Houston, have infuriated the religious right. Lately, with his name being mentioned as a potential national candidate in 1996, the Governor has been playing down his stand on abortion. "We should focus on economics," he said in a recent interview. "My whole point is that we should not lead with the abortion issue in 1996."
Reminded that he had emphasized it in Houston, he answered: "That was then, now is now. I want to be in the same party as Pat Robertson. They're very nice people."
Mr. Weld calls himself "to the right of Attila the Hun" on crime. And he recently proposed one of the toughest welfare programs in the country.
The affable, self-assured Mr. Weld has disarmed some Democrats. "I would say that his most infuriating trait is perhaps his most endearing one," said Tom Birmingham, the chairman of the State Senate Ways and Means Committee. "He has a sort of cavalier sense of the whole process as a type of game. I'm not sure there are too many issues he cares deeply about. But the arm's-length approach is refreshing, for me at least. Here's life outside politics."
Answering those who say he lacks conviction, Mr. Weld said: "I like to have fun with politics, but I also take my politics very seriously. I care very passionately about not wasting taxpayers' money."
 
Attracting Attention
 While his aides confide that Mr. Weld has national ambitions, he is not talking about them now while he seeks re-election. Still, he gets noticed without trying. He is 6 feet 4 inches tall, red-haired, good-looking and extremely smart. He graduated first in his prepatory school class, at Middlesex Academy, and summa cum laude in classics from Harvard, where he wrote his senior thesis in two weeks while starring as a rabbit in the Hasty Pudding theatrical club's production of "Right Up Your Alley."
His patrician bearing and background are sometimes tempered by another persona: Bill Weld, regular guy. While Bill Clinton plays the saxophone on the Arsenio Hall show, the Governor goes to Grateful Dead concerts.
Mr. Weld is credited with bringing calm to a chaotic State Legislature, cutting taxes and trimming the state work force by 12 percent. He has balanced the budget, though he does not mention that his job was eased considerably by two big tax increases won by Mr. Dukakis near the end of his term. In addition, voters rejected a 1990 tax rollback -- endorsed by Mr. Weld as a candidate -- that would have reduced state revenue by nearly $2 billion annually.
Steven Gold, director of the nonpartisan Center for the Study of the States in Albany, gives Mr. Weld mixed grades. "If all you care about is holding down taxes he gets an 'A,' " Mr. Gold said. "But I think one also has to consider how he held down taxes, and there has been serious deterioration in the elementary and secondary schools and in higher education. And thousands of poor people were turned off the welfare rolls."
Last year, Mr. Weld signed a $1.3 billion education bill that was sponsored by a Democratic State Representative, Mark Roosevelt, who is running for governor.
 
Some Long Family Roots
 The youngest of four children, Bill Weld grew up on a 500-acre estate in Smithtown, L.I., descended from the Welds who came to America in 1635. His father, David Weld, was a partner in the family investment banking firm on Wall Street. When a reporter for The Boston Globe asked Mr. Weld in 1989 where he got his money, he said, "We don't get money, we have money."
Some people say the Governor cannot relate to the common man. "You walk around Harvard, there's Weld Hall and Weld Boathouse," said Jack Corrigan, a former aide to Mr. Dukakis. "He doesn't care about state government because his life has no relationship to the state government. He doesn't care about people on welfare because he's never depended on government for assistance in any way."
Responding to the accusation that he is out of touch, Mr. Weld said: "I think I'm a hell of a lot more in touch with what working people and taxpayers want than professional politicians who lecture them about what they should want and go about raising taxes to feed a big bureaucracy."
Mr. Weld's social class can be a political advantage here, in this outpost for Brahmin Republicans, from Henry Cabot Lodge to Elliot L. Richardson to Frank Sergeant, the last previous Republican Governor.
"Massachusetts Democrats have always had a kind of fondness for people who never had to chisel or work their way up," said Hale Champion, a retired executive dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. "It's the noblesse oblige business."
The Governor almost never becomes defensive. To the frustration of his opponents, would-be crises seem to dissolve before him. In a front-page series of articles last year, for example, The Globe explored the easy access the Governor gives to business and special interest groups that have contributed to his campaigns. There was little, if any, political fallout over the articles, which Mr. Weld, a former United States Attorney, termed "a good series."
Asked in a recent interview to name his biggest failure, Mr. Weld was silent for a long moment. "I don't know," he said. "I don't have a very good legal mind, but I don't consider that a failure."
His campaign manager, Ray Howell, reminded him of his 1978 campaign for State Attorney General, in which Mr. Weld was trounced by the popular incumbent, Frank Bellotti.
 
'Not Successful Ladies' Man'
 The Governor laughed. "I don't consider that a failure," he said, adding that the race was interesting.
Finally, he admitted, "I was not a successful ladies' man." He did marry Susan Roosevelt, a great granddaughter of Theodore Roosevelt. Their five children are 9 to 16 years old. A graduate of Radcliffe and Harvard Law School, Mrs. Weld is an adjunct professor of Chinese law at Boston College Law School.
Some Republicans are already saying that Mr. Weld could give balance to a national ticket in 1996 led by a more conservative Republican from the Midwest or West. But the Governor might not be a hit beyond Massachusetts.
"A Republican primary voter is not a natural Weld constituent," said Eddie Mahe, a Republican political consultant. "We are slightly over 50 percent pro-life. It's that simple."
Asked about his ambitions, Mr. Weld mentioned, among other things, the ambassadorship to Portugal. "Small country," he said. "Lots of sun, good wine. Lots of espionage, lots of exciting stuff."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 16, 1994, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 5 about Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts misidentified the boarding school he attended. It was the Middlesex School, not Middlesex Academy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. William F. Weld, a 48-year-old moderate Republican whose patrician style fits in neatly with his political skills, is preparing to run for re-election this fall. He is shown in his Statehouse office. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); Governor, left, in the 1960's, when he was at Harvard and played a rabbit in the Hasty Pudding production of "Right Up Your Alley." (The Harvard Crimson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (69%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS ; UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); LAKES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); SQUASH (55%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (50%); ABORTION (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA; WELD, WILLIAM F (GOV) RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



120 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 5, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: Eljer Industries Inc.(ELJ,N) reports earnings for Qtr to Apr 3

 BODY:

** COMPANY REPORTS **	Eljer Industries Inc.(ELJ,N)	Qtr to Apr 3	1994	1993		 	 	Sales	90,875,000	95,648,000	Net inc	360,000	874,000	Share earns	.05	.12	Shares outst	7,100,000	7,073,000		 	 		 	 	
 
Eljer Industries said that the strength of its North American operations in the 1994 first quarter offset severe winter weather in the U.S. and weak European economies.
 
The company also said litigation costs were reduced to $ 1,360,000 in the latest quarter but continued to hurt profit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: ELJ (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3432 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTINGS & TRIM (94%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (53%); EUROPE (51%); 

COMPANY: ELJER INDUSTRIES INC (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (53%); EUROPE (51%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LITIGATION (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994



121 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Hawaii Is a Health Care Lab As Employers Buy Insurance

SERIES: The Basics of Care -- A periodic report on national health issues.

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, May 3

 BODY:
The toughest question in the health care debate is whether to require employers to buy insurance for their workers.
But if members of Congress could overcome their fears of being accused of junketeering and actually visit Hawaii, they would find compelling evidence about how such a system actually works, and they would not have to rely on a range of absolute, if uninformed, opinion. 
 About 96 percent of Hawaiians have health insurance. Employers, regardless of the size of their work force, must pay for most of it. Nonetheless, they have thrived, despite frustration over expanding benefits and rising costs.
Moreover, Hawaiians seem healthier, and more satisfied with their health care, than other Americans.
Recent surveys by both the Northwestern National Life Insurance Company and by the American Public Health Association have rated overall health in Hawaii better than in any other state. The Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ranked Hawaii at or near the top in low infant mortality, longevity and early death from heart and lung disease and cancer.
Two opinion surveys sponsored by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 82 percent of Hawaiians, compared with 71 percent of Americans overall, were satisfied with their health care services. Only 18 percent of Hawaiians, compared with 39 percent of Americans, said their health care system worked badly.
There are no comparable surveys of doctors, many of whom complain that they make less money in Hawaii than they could elsewhere. But Jonathan R. Won, executive direcfor of the Hawaii Medical Association, said that in a very portable profession few doctors had moved away. "Physicians really say, 'I choose to practice here,' " he said. "Nobody has come up with a better idea as yet," he said.
Hawaii is also the only state where a recent United States Chamber of Commerce survey of its members, who are mostly engaged in small business, found a majority backing compulsory payments.
Hawaii is the only state with experience with that system, but it is a little-used laboratory. Only one Congressional subcommittee has come here this year to hold a hearing. Nor is there significant academic research, even by the University of Hawaii.
Still, 20 years of Hawaiian experience does offer support for requiring employers to pay, as President Clinton has urged, but also for some of the fears that the proposal raises among small businesses.
It is clear that the "employer mandate," as the requirement to buy workers insurance is known here and in Washington, has succeeded in bringing Hawaii to the threshold of universal health insurance coverage. That seems to have helped restrain health care inflation, a serious problem here but less critical than on the mainland: health insurance premiums are about 30 percent cheaper here, while almost everything else in Hawaii is more expensive.
The state health director, John C. Lewin, argues that the system has done more than that. "By emphasizing primary care, it has improved the health status of the people of Hawaii," he said. As one example, he said, early detection of breast cancer -- despite a high rate of it in Hawaii -- had enabled the state to achieve the nation's lowest rate of mortality from the disease.
Yet Hawaiians seem rather blase about the fact that they have something unique. So they may not notice being free of the mainland fears that their employers will cancel a health plan, or that existing medical conditions will either keep them locked in their jobs, force up their rates or deny them insurance altogether.
Nor is there an echo of the intense lobbyists' argument in Washington that compelling most employers to pay for insurance will cost millions of jobs and force thousands of companies out of business. That did not happen when Hawaii's mandate took effect in 1975, nor during the worst of the recession of the 1980's, nor in the last few years, when insurance premium inflation occasionally reached double digits.
 
Full-Time Workers Covered
 Part-time workers under 20 hours a week do not have to be insured, but no matter how small a company is, it must cover all its other workers -- and without the kind of subsidies contained in President Clinton's proposal. A report this year by the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, said, "We found no evidence that the employer mandate resulted in large disruptions in Hawaii's small-business sector."
But a different, less shrill concern of small business heard in Washington does echo here, that Congress may include enough exemptions and subsidies to make the employer mandate bearable when it takes effect, but not forever. That has been a problem in Hawaii. As Bette Tatum, state director of the National Federation of Independent Business, put it here the other day, "Subsidies come and go; mandates last forever.".
There is no doubt that Hawaii's system is tougher on employers now than when it was enacted.
 
Limits on Worker Premiums
 Over the years, Hawaiian officials have been prevented by Federal law from raising the ceiling on worker contributions to health care that the state law set in 1974. It is limited to 1.5 percent of a worker's salary, and no more than half the premium. For a minimum-wage worker in 1975, the limit of $5.20 a month was nearly a third of that year's $18.62 monthly cost of basic health insurance.
But health insurance costs have grown much faster than the minimum wage, which was $2 in 1975 and is $5.25 here now, or $910 a month based on a 40-hour week. The most that can be deducted from a minimum-wage worker now is $13.65 a month; that is such a small share of the $131.02 premium for a worker's basic coverage that many employers do not bother to collect it.
Though Federal law blocked Hawaii from requiring workers to pay a bigger share of their insurance premiums, Hawaii's lawmakers found a way to add benefits.
Barred from amending their 1974 Prepaid Health Care Act, Hawaiian legislators changed the basic insurance laws, requiring all health insurers and health maintenance organizations to add coverage for mental health and drug and alcohol treatment, mammograms, more well-baby care and in-vitro fertilization.
 
More Benefits, But Low Cost
 Marvin Hall, president of the Hawaii Medical Service Association, the local Blue Cross-Blue Shield group that covers just over half of Hawaiians, says those additions amount to less than 10 percent of a premium.
Beyond the cost, the fact that the heavily Democratic, pro-labor Legislature shoved the changes down its throat rankles small business. Don Moore, who runs the hardware store in Kula, on the island of Maui, said scornfully, "They keep adding bells and whistles."
Teena Rasmussen, a wholesale flower grower who produces leis and bouquets in Kula, said the combination of new mandates and health care inflation "was not something the employer had any method of covering, except by lowering the coverage." She said foreign competition prevented her from raising her prices. While she once voluntarily helped cover workers' families, she no longer does so and is buying the cheapest coverage she can for her nine full-time employees. But there is no business revolt. "Employers are very resigned to it over here," she said.
 
'Hardly Worth It'
 Mr. Moore certainly fills that bill. "There are costs in any business," he said, "and certainly health insurance is one of them. It's pretty consistent that it goes up, but I wouldn't say that it has gotten out of hand." He could deduct a total $200.85 from his nine insured workers every two weeks. But, he said: "The 1.5 percent is hardly worth it. You've got an employee relationship to maintain."
One more local business gripe is a counterpart of the widespread doubt that Congress will subject itself and Federal workers to the same terms it imposes on the rest of the nation. Consider the way state government treats itself here. It pays 60 percent of the cost of insurance and requires workers to pay 40 percent.
Big business has less trouble with the system. Of the 17 percent of Hawaiians in 1974 who lacked insurance that would cover both doctor and hospital bills, most worked for small companies, in small factories, shops, restaurants and similar businesses. This is a heavily unionized state, and most union contracts had ample health insurance 20 years ago. But other big businesses, to compete for workers, matched that benefit.
 
Putting Theory to Work
 Peter Lewis, vice president of Hawaiian Electric, the islands' major power company, said: "Speaking for most big businesses, we support the idea of the Prepaid Health Care Act. As a company, we are very much focused on the preventive end. In the long run, it will save us money."
After 1975, commercial insurers, denied the chance to avoid unhealthy clients, quickly dropped out of the market, and the H.M.S.A., the Blue Cross carrier, with about half the market, has competed ever since with Kaiser Permanente, whose H.M.O.'s have about a fifth of the market. The competition has kept prices down and encouraged the sort of preventive care that means a slightly above-average rate of doctor visits yearly but also lower hospitalization rates, shorter hospital stays and less frequent surgery.
There are disputes about how complete the insurance coverage really is. Speaking for the independent-business group, Mrs. Rasmussen, the flower grower, told Congress that 3 percent to 7 percent of Hawaiians were not covered and "many experts estimate that the numbers may be higher." Dr. Lewin often claims 98 percent coverage.
Analyses based on the Census Bureau's monthly household survey suggest that 93 percent of Hawaiians have health insurance. A much larger survey, conducted by the state Health Department, indicates that 96 percent of Hawaiians are insured.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Employers in Hawaii must pay the greatest share of their full-time workers' health insurance premiums. As costs have risen, small-business owners like Teena Rasmussen, foreground, a flower grower on Maui, have sought the cheapest coverage for their employees. (Adam Clymer/The New York Times) (pg. A18)
 
Chart: "FOR AND AGAINST: The Employer Mandate for Health Care"
 
WHAT IT IS -- Requiring employers to provide health insurance for their workers and pay most of the cost.
 
ARGUMENTS FOR -- Most health insurance is already provided through the workplace, and the smoothest way to expand coverage with the goal of achieving universal care is to require all employers to furnish it. This will end the inequities of a system in which people and companies that pay for health insurance subsidize emergency care for those who do not.
 
ARGUMENTS AGAINST -- Additional costs would cripple thousands of small businesses and force thousands more to cut their work force. Other changes could make health insurance less expensive and more widely available, and still permit individual businesses to choose the kind of insurance their particular workers needed.
 
WHO SUPPORTS IT? -- Most unions, the Health Insurance Association of America, most large companies that provide insurance, including automobile manufacturers and phone companies, and the American Medical Association, if it is limited to larger employers.
 
WHO OPPOSES IT? -- THe National Federation of Independent Business, the largest small business organization in the nation with 600,000 members and a strong lobbying operation in Washington, and also the United States Chamber of Commerce.
 
THE CLINTON PROPOSAL -- All employers must insure their workers, paying about 80 percent of the premium cost. Where family members work at different companies, those companies share the health insurance cost. Subsidies are given to small companies.
 
HOW IT WORKS IN HAWAII -- All employers mus privide health insurance for all full-time workers, meaning everyone who works 20 hours a week or more. Workers can be required to pay a share of the premium up to 50 percent of the cost or 1.5 percent of their wages, whichever is lower. While they are not requried to do so, many employers pay part or all of the cost of health insurance for a worker's family. The required coverage includes doctor and hospital bills but not prescription drugs or dental or eye care.
 
STATUS OF CLINTON BILL -- Proponents are trying to find more or larger subsidies and, perhaps, exemptions for very small companies. In the Senate, there is growing support for a Republican measure that would require employers to offer insurance without having to pay for it and compel individuals to buy insurance for themselves if it is not available to them on the job. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (99%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWESTERN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (70%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (59%); HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (56%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (59%); HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (56%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; UNITED STATES (99%); HAWAII, USA (99%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; SMALL BUSINESS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; PUBLIC OPINION; LABOR; DOCTORS HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); CANCER (73%); EVIDENCE (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); HEART DISEASE (68%); INFANT MORTALITY (67%); 

PERSON: RASMUSSEN, TEENA; CLYMER, ADAM ; LEWIN, JOHN C BILL CLINTON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



122 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: 2 Die as Helicopter Crashes Near Lincoln Tunnel

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
A small, low-flying helicopter heading toward Manhattan with a flying instructor and his student snagged a power line, cartwheeled in midair and crashed in flames on a busy elevated-highway approach to the Lincoln Tunnel in New Jersey yesterday, killing the two people on board.
No one on the ground was killed or injured, but the crash set off a chain of fires that engulfed scores of cars in a commuters' parking lot under the highway, a shadowland where people returned after the day's work to find singed skeletons where they had left shiny roadsters and getabouts. Other effects also rippled outward: power failures in 10 New Jersey communities and an interstate traffic jam that affected tens of thousands. 
 The cause of the crash was not immediately determined, but officials said the helicopter, a two-seat Robinson-22 that had taken off from Teterboro Airport six miles to the northeast, was only about 150 feet in the air when its rotor hit the power line and it spun down to a fiery death.
Terrified witnesses -- motorists, children in a nearby school, workers in an industrial area laced with cloverleaf roads and rail and power lines -- told of explosions and fireballs as the chopper came down, skipped and broke apart on Interstate 495 a mile west of the Lincoln Tunnel in North Bergen at 12:50 P.M.
"It hit the wire and just came tumbling down right in front of my car," said Frank DePinto, 20. "I just slammed on the brakes so I wouldn't hit it. It just kept burning. Vehicles were zig-zagging all over the place, trying to get out of the way."
Alexander Gichan, who saw it from his wood-recycling business, said, "It was like three blasts of lightning. The white bursts had to be a hundred feet wide." His brother, Greg, added: "It was like a rock skipping on the water, like a fireball bouncing on 495. I thought it was a bus. It was that big."
As blazing wreckage, a live power line and volatile fuel cascaded onto a park-and-ride lot 60 feet below the elevated crash site, fires broke out and explosions erupted, incinerating 25 vehicles, damaging 53 others and turning the lot into a war zone of smoldering ruins where commuters later wandered gloomily in search of Grand Ams and BMW's that had become blackened hulks.
Meanwhile, the downed power line knocked out a Public Service Electric and Gas substation in Jersey City, and electricity failed briefly in 15,750 homes and businesses in North Bergen, Jersey City, Secaucus, Union City, Weehawken, Guttenberg, Leonia, Fort Lee, Fairview and Ridgefield. About 7,000 customers were without power for nearly an hour, and 2,000 were out for two hours, a spokesman said.
As police and emergency vehicles rushed to the scene, the authorities shut down some of the main traffic arteries linking New York City and New Jersey -- Interstate 495 in the vicinity of the crash, two of the three tubes of the Lincoln Tunnel, Exits 16E and 17 of the New Jersey Turnpike, and busy Route 3.
The resulting traffic tie-ups spread out through midtown Manhattan and much of northern New Jersey in the afternoon, forcing a diversion of traffic through the Holland Tunnel and across the George Washington Bridge. While the wreckage was cleared by the afternoon rush, continuing delays affected many commuters well into the evening.
As Federal, state and local authorities began investigating the crash, officials said its timing, with midday traffic at an ebb on a six-lane highway that is a bumper-to-bumper nightmare during most weekday rush periods, may have spared many from death or injury.
 
Victims' Identities Withheld
 The identities of the two people killed in the crash were not immediately disclosed, pending the notification of relatives. But officials of the Titan Aviation Academy and Helicopter Service, the owner of the aircraft, said the two men were a flight instructor for Titan and a student pilot who was working toward a commercial flying license.
Eric D. Pangborn, the chief pilot of Titan, said the helicopter had left Titan's airport base at Millville, in southern New Jersey, yesterday morning and had flown 100 miles to Teterboro Airport, where it was serviced at Atlantic Aviation before taking off again.
The Robinson-22 is a 2-seat, 30-foot-long chopper that carries a maximum load of 30 gallons of fuel, a cruising speed of 90 miles an hour and a range of 200 to 300 miles. Known among pilots as a Robby, some 2,300 have been built, commonly for use in pleasure flying, pilot training, law enforcement, aerial photography, mapping and agricultural spraying.
"It's elegantly simple to fly, economic, easy to handle and basically trouble-free," said Paul Dudley, manager of Linden Air Services at Linden Airport in New Jersey. He has 800 hours of flying time on Robinson-22's and said its versatility makes it one of the most popular helicopters.
 
Snags a Wire
 Aviation officials said the helicopter in yesterday's crash was heading for Manhattan, perhaps for a landing on one of the riverside helipads, when it flew across a tangle of heavily traveled roadways west of the Lincoln Tunnel and, apparently dipping too low, snagged one of the high-tension wires strung across Interstate 495 on pylons that stand about 165 feet high.
It was unclear exactly how high the helicopter was, how fast it was going or even who was at the controls when the aircraft flew between two transmission towers and struck the topmost of eight lines between them.
Neil Brown, a utility spokesman, said the line that was hit was a non energized static wire put up to catch lightning strikes and deflect their energy from the high-voltage lines under them, but it became energized with thousands of volts instantly when it snapped and touched two 230,000-volt lines beneath it.
Pat Allen, 35, who was driving on nearby Paterson Plank Road, heard what sounded like an explosion and looked out. "The power line was burning as it came down," he said. "The helicopter did two and one-half cartwheels in the air before it hit the roadway."
 
Main Route to Tunnel
 The helicopter went down in flames on the eastbound lanes of Interstate 495 just east of a huge cloverleaf that serves that highway and Routes 3, 1, 9 and the New Jersey Turnpike, a few hundred yards to the west. Interstate 495 is the main route into the Lincoln Tunnel, the major link between New Jersey and midtown Manhattan.
Witnesses said the chopper broke apart as it skipped on the highway. While a large section burned furiously on the road, forcing astonished motorists to halt and swerve in a desperate ballet that somehow did not lead to a pileup, other sections of the aircraft hurtled over the edge of the viaduct and plummeted 60 feet onto a vast parking lot used by motorists who take buses or ferries on the last leg into Manhattan.
On the highway, Mr. DePinto, the chief of operations for a Union, N.J., ambulance service, slammed on his brakes and halted 35 feet in front of the helicopter. He said he and two co-workers leaped out and ran to the burning aircraft to try to save the two occupants, but the interior was ablaze and it was hopeless.
He said other motorists also halted and approached the burning craft. "We had to hold people back," he said. "We told them to stay back -- there was nothing they could do."
On a bluff overlooking the scene, Carole Prena, a secretary at the McKinley School, where 320 children were in elementary classes, said: "It hit just as I looked out. I saw showers of fire coming out of the wires near the towers. It went down on the roadway and went up into a ball of fire. It was a bunch of fire -- that's all I could see."
Then, she said, the fires spread in the parking lot. "The cars were going off -- one, two, three -- like a chain reaction." Later, she said, psychologists had to be brought in to soothe the kindergartners, who had seen the accident and had begun to cry.
 
1,200 Cars in Lot

 In the lot below -- a lot owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and operated by New Jersey Transit with buses to the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Manhattan -- were about 1,200 cars, according to Penny Bassett Hacket, speaking for the transit agency.
Nicholas J. Sacco, the Mayor of North Bergen, said fuel from the helicopter fell with the flaming wreckage and the live power line into the lot, touching off fires that spread quickly. "When the line hit the fuel, it exploded," he said. "Car after car was exploding, almost in rows."
Bruce Walter, director of emergency management services for Hudson County, said the flames and explosions destroyed 25 vehicles, incinerating most down to metal frames, and damaged 53 others. Fire departments from surrounding communities put out the fires by midafternoon, saving more than a thousand vehicles.
But by late afternoon, as commuters who had left their cars in the morning returned to the parking lot, they found bizarre scenes of devastation -- rows of charred skeletons that had been their vehicles.
 
'It's Just a Car'
 "I think this is my car," said Harlan Marks, a 38-year-old sales manager for an office parts company in Manhattan, as he looked over the remains of a green Ford Taurus he had bought last November. Mr. Marks, who lives in Lincoln Park, N.J., seemed resigned to the loss of the car and the golf clubs that were in it, and started thinking about insurance. "It's just a car," he said, "and they are going to pay for it."
Zvia Herrmann, of Fair Lawn, N.J., lost her 1994 Toyota Camry, and Mark DiPrima of Glen Ridge, N.J., lost his 1994 Pontiac Grand Am. But Karen Siegel Forster, 29, of Mahwah, counted herself lucky after finding her 1988 Toyota undamaged. "The car behind me was singed to a crisp," she said.
The afternoon was a mess for other commuters as well. Traffic was especially heavy in the Holland Tunnel and and on the George Washington Bridge, and some buses to New Jersey ran an hour late, even after officials reopened the Lincoln Tunnel, which carries 56,000 vehicles in a weekday rush.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After a helicopter crashed near the Lincoln Tunnel in New Jersey yesterday, setting off fires that engulfed a parking lot, Carl Brody searched for his car among rows of charred vehicles. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) (pg. A1); Burning cars being hosed down yesterday after being set ablaze by blazing wreckage and fuel and exploding power lines in the crash of a helicopter. (Alex Vros for The New York Times); Emergency crews surveying the wreckage yesterday after a helicopter snagged a power line and crashed onto an elevated-highway approach from Interstate 495 to the Lincoln Tunnel in New Jersey. Wreckage, fuel and power lines fell into a parking lot 60 feet below the crash site. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) (pg. B4)
 
Map/Diagram: "HOW IT HAPPENED: A Copter Goes Down"
 Two people were killed yesterday when a helicopter crashed on interstate 495 in North Bergen, N.J. Witnesses said the helicopter, a 1985 Robinson, was flying south from Teterboro Airport when it struck a power line. The authorities said the line, which was not energized, was cut and brushed an energized line as it fell, and became energized itself. It fell into a parking lot, touching off a fire that burned dozens of cars.
 Diagram and map show how the crash happened and where.
 
1. Copter hits overhead power line, severing wire.
 
2. Copter falls on eastbound lanes of I-495.
 
3. Severed power line touches off fire in lot. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (61%); TITAN AVIATION ACADEMY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: TITAN AVIATION ACADEMY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; INTERSTATE 495; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; HELICOPTERS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; LINCOLN TUNNEL; FIRES AND FIREMEN; AUTOMOBILES; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) HELICOPTERS (93%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); FIRES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (62%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



123 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Portrays Sheik as Head Of a Wide Terrorist Network

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Prosecutors will argue in their case against Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman that various terrorist acts dating back to 1991 were all part of a single, overall conspiracy led by the sheik to punish the United States for its support of Israel and Egypt, according to court papers.
The effort, the papers say, was undertaken by a "jihad organization" that had "headquarters" in several American cities and ties to similar groups in other countries. 
 The prosecution's argument, contained in a 100-page memorandum that the Government submitted to the presiding judge in the case, for the first time presents a full theory of extremist Islamic activity in this country.
It contends that Mr. Abdel Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric who prosecutors say is at the center of an alleged plot to blow up New York City landmarks, led 13 other defendants in a mission of "punishing the United States for its perceived status as leader of the 'infidel' order to be toppled."
The trial is expected to begin in September.
The document gives examples of the evidence the prosecution will present against Mr. Abdel Rahman, including quotations from writings and speeches in which he talks of the duty of all Muslims to sacrifice themselves for jihad, or holy war, his call to "strike terror into the hearts of the enemies" and his conversations with a secret F.B.I. informer in which he approves or disapproves of certain proposed terror targets.
The document, written in response to motions submitted earlier by defense lawyers, ties together several incidents and plots, including last year's bombing of the World Trade Center and the 1991 assassination of an extremist rabbi, Meir Kahane, not as the isolated instances they seemed to many at the time but as parts of a loosely coordinated terrorist whole.
It summarizes much of the evidence against Mr. Abdel Rahman, whom it portrays both as providing a kind of overall religious justification for acts of violence carried out against the perceived enemies of Islam and as approving or disapproving specific terrorist targets.
"The crimes and acts alleged in the indictment," the prosecution says, "are not random, disconnected acts of unthinking brutality. They are, instead, all parts of the same very real battle the defendants and their co-conspirators saw -- and still see -- themselves fighting."
The prosecution's statement, by far the most complete description of the case against Mr. Abdel Rahman and his suspected followers, lists among the actions of the conspiracy a plan, ordered, the prosecution says, by Mr. Abdel Rahman, to assassinate Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and a foiled plot to set off bombs at the United Nations, a Federal office building in lower Manhattan and Hudson River crossings.
"The attack on Rabbi Kahane did not occur in a vacuum," the prosecution's memorandum says. "It was instead a small, albeit brutal step in a terrorist campaign which comprehended not only assassinations of individuals but the mass destruction of political, social and economic assets of the 'infidel' West, of which the United States was deemed the leader."
The document, submitted to the judge late Wednesday and provided to reporters yesterday, involves what is commonly called the second case, which is separate from the completed case against four men convicted of carrying out last year's car bombing of the World Trade Center. The second case will focus on the alleged terror activities of Mr. Abdel Rahman and a band of followers, including several Egyptian, Sudanese and Palestinian immigrants and two American-born Muslims.
But three of the men convicted in the trade center bombing -- Mohammed A. Salameh, Nidal A. Ayyad and Mahmud Abouhalima -- are listed as unindicted co-conspirators in the second case and are said by the Government to have played a role in other activities, including the assassination of Rabbi Kahane.
 
Government Arguments
 Technically, the Government memorandum argues against some earlier defense motions, specifically that some of the defendants be severed from the case. The presiding judge, Michael B. Mukasey, has also asked the Government to explain why the counts in the indictment involving the Kahane and Mubarak matters should be included in a case centering on charges of seditious conspiracy, since those actions, even if proved, do not, the judge has said, seem to be directed against the United States Government.
It was in answering that last question that the prosecution yesterday laid out its theory of an overall conspiracy against the United States, inspired by Mr. Abdel Rahman's beliefs, of which the Kahane and Mubarak matters were parts. The document presented to Judge Mukasey says that a "jihad organization" came into existence in the late 1980's, well before the Kahane assassination. It carried out paramilitary training at remote spots in New York State and Connecticut, the prosecution says, and "set up headquarters in various American cities in New York, New Jersey, Texas, California, Michigan and elsewhere." The organization, the memorandum says, "had ties to jihad organizations in Egypt, the Sudan, Pakistan, Afghanistan and elsewhere."
The Government's memorandum, in spelling out what it says was the central role of Mr. Abdel Rahman in giving overall guidance to the "war of urban terror," provides few details not already disclosed in earlier court documents. Mr. Abdel Rahman, who has said he will act as his own lawyer during the trial, denies playing any role in any terror conspiracy and there seems little doubt that he will dispute the interpretations placed by the Government on his words and opinions.
 
In His Own Words
 The Government, for example, quotes from speeches and writings of Mr. Abdel Rahman that show, it contends, his overall motivation of punishing the United States for its support of Israel and Egypt, whose Governments Mr. Abdel Rahman bitterly opposed. One quotation is from a book written by Mr. Abdel Rahman in which he describes the "duty of all Muslims to sacrifice and do Jihad so that the word of the unbelievers becomes submissive to God's word."
The Government document also shows Mr. Abdel Rahman being informed of the existence of the training camps. It says that at a January 1992 meeting at the Abu Bakr mosque in Brooklyn Mr. Abdel Rahman said that "he would be sending more of his followers from the al-Salam mosque in New Jersey to training sessions.
"Rahman remarked that the time was coming when 'we' must all be 'trained and ready,' " the prosecution says.
The Government document also summarizes the conversations that Mr. Abdel Rahman had with Emad Salem, a former Egyptian Army officer who, acting as an F.B.I. informer, infiltrated the group around Mr. Abdel Rahman and secretly recorded his meetings with him.
One of the conversations, for example, shows Mr. Abdel Rahman counseling against an attack against the United Nations on the grounds that "it would muddy the waters for Islam." Instead, Mr. Abdel Rahman orders his followers to "find a plan to inflict damage -- to inflict damage on the Army, the American Army."
For the prosecution, such statements show that Mr. Abdel Rahman played a central role in discussing targets and therefore must have had a critical part in the overall conspiracy. When Mr. Salem, in the same conversation, asked Mr. Abdel Rahman what he thought of the plan to bomb the F.B.I. headquarters in Lower Manhattan, he responded:
"Well, uh, a little bit later. We'll talk about this."
The prosecution memorandum continues: "When Salem indicated that the plan was currently in motion, Rahman offered a lesson in patience from history: 'It doesn't matter. Slow down. Slow down a little bit. The one who killed Kennedy was trained for three years."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (94%); ISRAEL (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; EGYPT; ; ISRAEL; UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (94%); ISRAEL (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; ISLAM; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS TERRORISM (92%); ASSASSINATION (91%); RELIGION (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); INDICTMENTS (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (75%); JUDGES (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); 

PERSON: ABDEL RAHMAN, OMAR (SHEIK); KAHANE, MEIR (RABBI) (1932-90); MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES); BERNSTEIN, RICHARD HOSNI MUBARAK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



124 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Fare Increase for M.T.A. Riders Delayed by Improving Economy

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Subway and bus fares will remain at $1.25 at least until July 1995, six months later than previously planned, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced yesterday.
Corporate profits are up because of the improving economy, so the authority's levy on companies in the region, which is about 2 percent of profits, will bring in about $486 million in 1994, up from $460 million last year, said John Cunningham, a spokesman. 
 A stream of new riders, some of them rejoining the ranks of the employed, will bring in an additional $38 million, he said. Sales tax revenues are also rising, putting the authority's total revenues at $106 million above projections, the equivalent of about 10 cents a fare.
The authority's chairman, Peter Stangl, reported to the Governor's office yesterday that the Authority had achieved some cost savings compared with its projections when the current fare, $1.25, was established in January 1992.
The M.T.A. had considered a $1.50 fare, and last year went so far as to hold hearings about an increase. But that was averted when the legislature gave the authority new revenues from a state tax on petroleum companies. That pushed the date for a fare increase from January 1994 to January 1995. Now, discussion of an increase will be delayed until after November's election.
In Albany, Mary Ann Crotty, director of policy management in the Governor's office, said the region's improving economy was "something none of us had anything to do with." But the authority, she said, could also take some credit because it had "controlled expenditures better than we first anticipated."
In a telephone interview, Mr. Stangl said ridership was rising faster than employment, because the subways were safer and more reliable. Costs were down, he said, because the Transit Authority had cut its workforce by about 8 percent between 1990 and 1993. "We've been quietly managing our costs down," he said.
Mr. Cunningham said the delay in consideration of an increase in the transit fare has no relevance for fares on the Long Island Railroad and Metro-North. But those lines, he said, are in generally good financial condition, and there is no plan now for an increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (52%); TRANSIT AUTHORITY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSIT AUTHORITY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FARES; FINANCES; SUBWAYS; BUSES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); SALES TAX (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); FUEL TAX (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); LAYOFFS (63%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (51%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L JOHN ANDERSON CUNNINGHAM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



125 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Threatens Union Of North and South Yemen

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SANA, Yemen, May 5

 BODY:
Bombs and artillery shells exploded in battles across Yemen today after an increasingly violent feud between north and south turned into full-scale civil war.
Fighting raged near the presidential palace in Sana, the Yemen capital, and warplanes from each side reportedly attacked targets in Sana and in Aden, the capital city of the formerly Marxist Southern Yemen. 
 There was no immediate estimate of casualties.
 
French Forces on Alert
 In Paris, the French Foreign Ministry said it would evacuate French citizens from Aden, and the United States and Britain, which had been the colonial power in Southern Yemen until 1967, warned their nationals to prepare for a similar effort.
French military officials said French forces in Djibouti, across the mouth of the Red Sea, were on alert to assist the evacuation.
State Department officials estimated that about 5,000 Americans live in Yemen, most of whom work for American oil companies. British officials said about 200 Britons live in Yemen.
President Ali Abdullah Saleh, a northerner, ordered a 30-day state of emergency across the country in a statement read over the Government-run radio.
Later, the radio broadcast an order banning the carrying of arms or shooting in the streets of the capital, but there was no sign that the ban had any effect.
 
First Elections Last Year
 Officials in north and south said it was the worst fighting in the country since the pro-Western north, then known as Yemen, was united with Southern Yemen on May 22, 1990.
A nation of 14 million people at the southwest corner of the Arabian peninsula, Yemen had instituted a democratic political system and held multi-party elections in which women had full participation only last year.
But differences over power-sharing came to a head last August when Vice President Ali Salem al-Beidh, who led Southern Yemen before unification, angrily left Sana and returned to his stronghold in Aden.
He asserted that the northerners -- led by President Saleh, who has ruled Yemen since 1978 -- were seeking to marginalize the impoverished south.
Mr. Beidh also accused General Saleh's forces of a campaign of violence in which, he said, more than 150 of his supporters had been killed during the last two years.
After Arab mediation, General Saleh signed a reconciliation agreement in Jordan on Feb. 20. But the next day the pact failed as northern and southern forces clashed. The fighting has spread during the last month.
 
Airport Is Closed
 European diplomats said that northern warplanes attacked the airport in Aden and southern planes retaliated by striking the Sana airport and the presidential palace at daybreak today. The authorities closed the Sana airport after the raid.
Smoke rose from the vicinity of the presidential palace and one diplomat said southern troops shelled the compound with artillery. The Government and military did not say whether President Saleh was inside.
Artillery explosions could also be heard to the south of Sana, and small-arms fire echoed around the city. Fighting was also reported on the main road leading to the Red Sea and the port at Hodeida.
At nightfall, antiaircraft fire resumed in Sana, and power outages darkened homes and forced hotels to rely on emergency generators.
Late today, Aden radio reported air raids on Aden's airport, harbor, power station, radio station and oil refinery, but said that antiaircraft fire drove off attacking jets and that three of them were downed. The southerners reported downing two warplanes earlier in the day.
The refinery, with a capacity of 120,000 barrels a day, is an economic lifeline for Aden. But the Gulf News Agency quoted a military spokesman in Sana as denying that northern planes had attacked vital targets in Aden.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Civilians ran for cover yesterday in Sana, the capital of Yemen, after street battles in several parts of the city plunged the republic into civil war. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Yemen shows the location of Sana and of Aden.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); 

COUNTRY: YEMEN (99%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); 

STATE: RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); SANAA, YEMEN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN; SANA (YEMEN); YEMEN (99%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); SANAA, YEMEN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); POLITICS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%); 

PERSON: SALEH, ALI ABDULLAH (PRES); BEIDH, ALI SALEM AL- ALI ABDULLAH SALEH (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



126 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Joseph Jett, the ousted Kidder Peabody trader, demanded in court that Kidder release nearly $5 million frozen in his accounts and asserted his innocence against allegations that he created $350 million in phantom trades to conceal trading losses at the firm and inflate his $9 million bonus in 1993. [Page D1.] 
 I.B.M. is beginning the most significant overhaul of its marketing force in decades to try to recast the company as mainly a supplier of solutions for specific industries instead of just a seller of machines, industry executives said. [D1.]
Chrysler will build an electric version of its new mini-van to comply with California law, but it predicted that customers would spurn the vehicle. [D1.]
Big retail chains reported relatively weak sales gains in April, but the results do not necessarily suggest that consumers have stopped shopping, analysts say. [D2.]
R. H. Macy bondholders proposed their own reorganization plan to get the company out of bankruptcy in an effort to improve their leverage in the case. [D3.]
The strongest sign to date emerged that the merger between Viacom and Blockbuster Entertainment was collapsing. Blockbuster's chairman told shareholders that there "could be no assurance the board could recommend a transaction" with Viacom. [D3.]
Four Florida newspapers were among the winners of an unusual lottery, in which Southern Bell chose recipients of some of the handiest telephone numbers. [D3.]
Wassall will buy General Cable for about $269.8 million. [D3.]

The Economy
Two paper companies and two advocacy groups are expected to announce a plan to build a $100 million plant in the South Bronx to produce recycled paper from New York City's trash. It will be the first inner-city project of its type in the nation. [D1.]
Congressional Democrats and Republicans assailed the Clinton Administration's policy on international aviation agreements, saying it lacked a long-term, cohesive approach. [D2.]
Growth in nonfarm productivity slowed sharply in the first quarter, as labor costs rose by the largest amount in more than three years. [D4.]

International
Russian companies are increasingly seeking money from a source that until recently was not available to them: spreading securities markets across the vast country. [D1.]

Markets
Prices of Treasury securities meandered in light trading yesterday and finished little changed ahead of today's release of April's employment data. The yield of the 30-year Treasury bond was unchanged at 7.33 percent. [D5.]
Stock prices closed essentially unchanged, with the Dow Jones industrial average slipping 1.78 points, to 3,695.97. [D6.]
The dollar rallied against other leading currencies amid speculation that the world's big central banks might team up again to support it. [D13.]
Coffee futures prices topped $1 a pound for the first time in more than three and a half years. [D13.]

Today's Columns
The future looks rocky for investors in Eurotunnel, since it is nearly out of cash. The Channel Tunnel between Britain and France will have its formal opening today. Market Place. [D6.]
McCann-Erickson has decided to walk away from the "I Love New York" account of the New York State Department of Economic Development. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (84%); VIACOM INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (79%); LOTTERIES (78%); FUTURES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); RETAILERS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); COFFEE (71%); CIVIL AVIATION (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (68%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); PAPER MFG (64%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); CITY LIFE (63%); PRODUCTIVITY (61%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



127 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

HELICOPTER CRASHES NEAR LINCOLN TUNNEL
A small, low-flying helicopter heading toward Manhattan with a flying instructor and his student snagged a power line, cartwheeled in midair and crashed in flames on a busy elevated-highway approach to the Lincoln Tunnel in New Jersey, killing the two people on board. A1.
 
Suddenly, a glowing orange-yellow ball hung over one entrance to the Lincoln Tunnel. B4.
 
BOMB PLOT NOT ISOLATED, U.S. WILL ARGUE
Prosecutors will argue in their upcoming case against Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman that terrorist acts dating back to 1991 were all part of a single, overall conspiracy led by the cleric to punish the United States for its support of Israel and Egypt, according to court papers. A1.
 
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
IMPROVING ECONOMY DELAYS FARE INCREASE
Subway and bus fares will remain at $1.25 at least until July 1995, six months later than previously planned, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced, citing higher revenues from the improving economy. B2.
 
PLAN FOR AIDS UNIT REVERSED, GROUPS SAY
The Giuliani administration, facing a political storm over its plans to shrink or eliminate the Division of AIDS Services, has decided to look for ways to keep the agency intact, AIDS- and homeless-service organizations said after meeting with administration officials. B3.
 
WOMAN ENTERS FIRE DEPARTMENT HISTORY
Twelve years ago Rochelle Jones was among the first women to join the Fire Department -- and to face the hostility of male colleagues. Now the women have cause to celebrate. Ms. Jones was promoted to lieutenant, becoming the highest ranking female officer in the department's 129-year history. B3.
 
STRANGLING IS SUSPECTED IN S.I. DEATH
A lawyer for the family of a Staten Island man who died in police custody last week said a doctor hired by the family to perform an autopsy suspects that the man was strangled. B3.

4 ACQUITTED OF EXTORTING CONTRACTORS
A jury in Brooklyn acquitted four black and Hispanic construction workers charged with extorting money and jobs from construction firms. A fifth was convicted on two counts. B3.
 
$41 MILLION AWARDED IN DEATH
A jury awarded $41 million to the family of a woman who sued the Health and Hospitals Corporation and Emergency Medical Services over her death. B7.
 
 
REGION
 
WOODS SEARCHED FOR MISSING GIRL
Hundreds of volunteers from Hasidic communities in Brooklyn and upstate New York went to Connecticut's most rural corner to help the police and local firefighters search for a 14-year-old Brooklyn girl who disappeared during a stop on a school field trip. B5.
 
DISMANTLING SUPERVISION OF COLLEGES
An advisory panel of New Jersey college and university presidents gave Gov. Christine Todd Whitman the political tool to dismantle the Department of Higher Education. If the plan becomes law, as expected, it will make New Jersey one of the few states in the nation to free its public colleges and universities from almost all state supervision. B5.
 
The Connecticut Senate will open a special session to act on budget, tax and other bills. B5.
 
Joel Rifkin's defense contended he was driven to kill by whispered voices from within. B6.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Home Heating Oil," Average residential home heating oil use fo single-family homes in New York City and Westchester County, October through March, in gallons (1990-1994). Source: New York State Energy Office

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: EVH (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (52%); NAICS621910 AMBULANCE SERVICES (52%); SIC8099 HEALTH & ALLIED SERVICES, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: ENVISION HEALTHCARE HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); HELICOPTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); VERDICTS (76%); EXTORTION (75%); AIDS & HIV (74%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); ACQUITTAL (74%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); WOMEN (72%); MEN (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); RELIGION (69%); DEATHS (68%); DAMAGES (67%); HOSPITALS (65%); MISSING PERSONS (64%); AUTOPSIES (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); 

PERSON: OMAR ABDEL-RAHMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



128 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: County Prescribes Its Own Cure

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOUNT CARMEL, Ill., May 4

 BODY:
In the rural tradition of neighbor helping neighbor this oil-and-farming town of 10,000 on the Wabash River is not waiting for Washington to solve its health care problems. When the oil industry collapsed a couple of years back, leaving many residents without jobs or insurance, the community opened one of the country's few all-volunteer clinics for the poor.
The Wabash County Medical Volunteers Clinic operates on Tuesday and Thursday evenings at Wabash General Hospital in a wing that had been empty since the last obstetrician left town two years ago. 
 Its patients are largely people down on their luck but too proud to ask for Government assistance like Medicaid. The support staff is a round-robin of volunteers so enthusiastic that some complain that they do not have a chance to answer phones or greet patients or perform other helpful tasks often enough.
 
Didn't Even Want Grants
 "If they had more clinics like this one they wouldn't have to reform the whole system, because the primary problem of the underinsured would be taken care of," Dr. Naren Anadkat, an internist who volunteers at the clinic, said. "Our health care system is probably the best in the world, and I don't think government has the ability to be efficient."
Self-reliance was a guiding principle in opening the clinic 18 months ago.
"We didn't want the Federal Government involved, even in grants," said Roger L. Holloway, administrator of the 56-bed hospital that is host to the clinic. "It's not a community that thinks it's someone else's job to take care of our problems."
On the contrary, many here dread an overhaul designed by Washington not only because they believe in caring for their own but because they fear that health care dollars will be doled out in the state capital, Springfield, but controlled by powerful politicians in Chicago, 300 miles to the north.
The director of rural hospital services for the Illinois Hospital Association, Barbara Dallas, called the effort a model for rural America, where even more people are uninsured than in urban areas because many are self-employed. "Dinner table conversation is, 'When is health care reform going to start?' " Ms. Dallas said. "Well, this is health care reform."
Robert T. Van Hook, a specialist on health care in the Department of Health and Human Services and former head of the National Rural Health Association, said he was impressed that the Wabash clinic was set up without government help. But he added that under a national plan such efforts would ultimately be unnecessary because most plans included universal coverage and incentives to attract doctors to rural areas. "It's a holding action," he said.
Residents for and against changing health care nationally say it is their duty to improve access to care. After the regional economy took a nosedive several years ago, the Public Health Administrator of the County Health Department, Mike Henry, came up with the idea for the clinic. He enlisted Mr. Holloway, who felt the clinic would not only help patients, but also save the hospital money.
In recent years the state started enforcing its policy of refusing to pay for nonemergency Medicaid visits to the emergency room.
Within several months four of the five working general practitioners in the town also signed on, along with one retired physician. They were employed by the hospital at an annual salary of $1, qualifying them for coverage under the hospital's malpractice insurance.
Appointments are made through the Health Department, where residents are screened for eligibility. They cannot have incomes of more than than $26,000 for a family of four, which is 133 percent of the state poverty standard. But most of the patients, predominantly young and middle-age men, actually have an average annual incomes of less than $5,000.
Workers say they rarely collect more than a few dollars from any patient. About 15 percent are on Medicaid, Mr. Henry said, because many are too proud to accept public assistance.
 
Eager Volunteers
 At the reception desk on one recent evening a retired social worker and the postmaster of nearby Allendale welcomed patients like the old friends that many were. A nursing student from a community college took their vital signs, and a registered nurse listened to their complaints, which included chest pains and a swollen wrist that had been injured in a motorcycle accident months earlier. The man said he had been treating the pain and swelling with Tylenol.
In the bright waiting room, where talk of fishing and Little League drowned out an episode of "Roseanne," Grace Lloyd said she had counted on the clinic for care since her husband had been laid off from his job at a meat-packing plant last year. She works as an aide at a nursing home, but like most others here is not insured. She had taken her 15-year-old son to the clinic to be treated for strep throat.
"They don't downgrade you or anything here," Ms. Lloyd said. "They treat you like a patient, which is really good."
Bob Howder, a former ambulance driver in a black felt hat, said he had lost his job, and his insurance, five weeks before suffering a heart attack in the fall. He had stopped seeing his doctor, "because I owe him for the last office visit." He went to the clinic, for the first time, he said, only because he had stopped hoping that he would soon find work. "I can't even walk half a block," he said.
In an examining room down the hall, Dr. Hytham Beck, a surgeon, was taking his time with each patient. He told a young woman with a hernia how to eat, sleep and take her medicine for maximum relief; warned the mother of an 8-year-old who had stepped on a rusty nail to "keep watching like a hawk" for signs of an infection, and spoke for nearly half an hour with Tommy Short, 60, an uninsured former maintenance man.
Dr. Beck and Mr. Short slowly reviewed the foods that might be making Mr. Short's high blood pressure worse, discussing labeling on canned foods and the sodium content in cereals and soups. Dr. Beck made Mr. Short promise to bring his wife with him the next time, so that they could further discuss shopping and cooking.
Then the doctor saw Kathy Moudy, who had become temporarily blind in one eye for a terrifying 15 minutes six days earlier. She had waited until clinic night to seek any medical attention, she said, and even then came only at the insistence of her mother.
"Usually I don't go to the doctor," said Ms. Moudy, who earns just over the minimum wage at an electronic components factory where she winds wire around plastic bobbins. "I treat myself."
Dr. Beck conducted a neurological examination, said Ms. Moudy had most likely suffered a "ministroke" and referred her to a specialist, who, he added, might give her a break on his fees.
Two hours past the closing time, after Dr. Beck had seen his last patient, he said he made time to volunteer because he had seen "things that make you feel ashamed, things that shouldn't happen in the United States." Those included a man who died of an extremely curable form of skin cancer because he had deferred treatment for so long.
"A lot of physicians think they've already done their duty because they've seen public-aid patients and didn't get paid," Dr. Beck said. "But that's not enough, because a lot of people are too proud to come if they can't pay. If reform takes care of these problems later on, then hallelujah. But we could also be waiting a long time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Wabash County Medical Volunteers Clinic in Mount Carmel, Ill., offers medical care to the poor. Hytham Beck examined 8-year-old Caleb Rayborn, who had stepped on a nail, on Tuesday night. (Mary Ann Carter for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WABASH COUNTY (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; RURAL AREAS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; VOLUNTEERS; MEDICAID HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); RURAL HEALTH (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (75%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA MIKE HENRY (61%); BARBARA DALLAS (61%); ROGER L HOLLOWAY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



129 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Aide Admits North Korea Nuclear Policy May Not Work

BYLINE: By MICHAEL GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 5

 BODY:
The Administration's top official handling the dispute over North Korea's nuclear program said today that he was not confident that a diplomatic solution could be reached, and that the United States had not yet won China's support for economic sanctions.
The stark admission by the official, Robert Gallucci, the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs, that Washington's strategy of using diplomacy and economic sanctions may fail comes at a critical moment in the negotiations aimed at persuading North Korea to allow full inspections of its nuclear sites. 
 It is also likely to heighten the debate over whether the Clinton Administration's policy on North Korea represents prudence or timidity.
As a senior State Department official, Mr. Gallucci has been deeply involved in the negotiating effort and was recently named by the White House to head American policymaking on North Korea.
In his comments, Mr. Gallucci sought to defend the Administration's policy against charges that Washington was wasting time in unproductive talks while North Korea continues its nuclear weapons program.
"The whole idea is to test the proposition that the North Koreans are willing to deal," he said. "And I always put it in terms of 'test the proposition' because I don't have, nor should I have, nor should anyone have, high confidence that we actually can resolve this through negotiations."
 
Sanctions May Not Work
 Even while trying to lower expectations that Washington's diplomacy would succeed, Mr. Gallucci argued that Washington needed to continue its diplomatic efforts because the alternatives are more dangerous: launching a pre-emptive military strike against North Korea's nuclear sites or moving unilaterally to impose economic sanctions.
"I am convinced we should not pursue this at all costs," he said.
Mr. Gallucci said Washington would ask the United Nations Security Council to consider economic sanctions against North Korea if Pyongyang rejects demands for international inspections and removes fuel rods from its reactor at Yongbyon without monitors present. But even as he discussed the prospect of economic sanctions, he conceded that the threat may be empty.
"What will the Chinese do?" Mr. Gallucci said, referring to China's veto in the Security Council. "Will you be able to pass a sanctions resolution? If there is anybody in this room who thinks they know, if they are willing to give me odds, and I do not care in which direction, I'll take them. I do not know what the Chinese are going to do."
Mr. Gallucci's comments come at a important juncture in North Korea's dealings with the International Atomic Energy Agency. In a step that could add to its potential supply of bomb-grade material, North Korea recently shut down its Yongbyon reactor and announced that it plans to discharge its fuel soon, perhaps as early as this week.
North Korea has said that the agency's inspectors could monitor the removal of the fuel. But it has rejected the agency's demands that its inspectors be permitted to take measurements of the fuel rods to help determine how much plutonium North Korea might have diverted to weapons programs in past years. It has also rejected a compromise under which the fuel rods would be set aside for measurements at a future time.
Hans Blix, the director general of the atomic agency, recently presented another proposal, which North Korea officials are still considering.
A compromise over the reactor, however, would not settle all of the nuclear disputes. North Korea has refused to let inspectors visit two nuclear waste sites, which experts want to inspect as part of their investigation into how much plutonium might have been diverted to weapons programs in past years. The agency also wants to complete inspections at a plutonium reprocessing plant at Yongbyon that the North Koreans blocked in March.
 
Leverage Limited
 In his comments today, Mr. Gallucci said openly what many Administration officials say privately: that Washington's diplomatic leverage is limited, that China is an impediment to tough sanctions, and that ending the North Korean nuclear program is not worth starting a war.
And critics complained that the Administration's diplomatic efforts have faltered even as North Korea has continued building a new, larger reactor and has moved to expand its capacity to reprocess plutonium.
"What we have now is a losing strategy," said Gary Milhollin, the director of Wisconsin Project on Arms Control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; CHINA; UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); VETO (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); 

PERSON: GALLUCCI, ROBERT L (ASST SEC); GORDON, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



130 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: San Jose Leaps Into Big Leagues

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif., May 4

 BODY:
This sprawling city passed San Francisco in population in the last decade and built itself a shiny new downtown. Yet San Jose remained very much the second city in the Bay Area, a place that many Northern Californians considered dull and charmless and that many residents left when they wanted a night on the town.
But all that has changed because of the success of a new downtown arena, which in eight months of operation has brought San Jose into the big leagues of sports and entertainment. This, combined with a revitalized downtown and a lively arts scene, has given its citizens something to brag about and persuaded some snooty San Franciscans that there might be a reason to drive 40 minutes down the Bayshore Freeway. 
 The reason for such a drive on Friday is the return home of the National Hockey League Sharks, the Cinderella team in this year's Stanley Cup playoffs, who have San Joseans honking their horns in celebration and teen-agers around the world lining up to buy the teal-and-black caps and jerseys that are this year's cool playground fashion statement.
Next month the San Jose Arena will showcase Barbra Streisand, who chose the capital of Silicon Valley as one of only five American stops on her concert tour. And last month the new building was packed and the nearby restaurants bustling because of Luciano Pavarotti, who delivered his signature arias in a city heretofore known for the Dionne Warwick pop lyric, "Do you know the way to San Jose?"
 
'Something to Rally Around'
 "No one is singing that song anymore," said Mayor Susan Hammer, who said that the Sharks and other attractions have given the 821,700 citizens of San Jose "something to rally around" and poured "millions and millions of dollars in spinoff revenues" into the city coffers.
The $165 million arena, approved by the voters in 1988 when the economy here was booming and paid for almost entirely with public funds, is the capstone of a decadelong $1.4 billion rebuilding effort, made possible under a state law that allows tax revenue to be used for redevelopment in some blighted districts.
Under a clever financing maneuver, San Jose merged 10 redevelopment districts scattered throughout its 174 square miles. The city brought new industry into districts at its fringes, sold bonds on the strength of the expanded tax base and then sank that revenue into the downtown area, which had fallen into disrepair after the valley's orchards gave way to semiconductor plants, tract houses and suburban malls.
Begun in the administration of former Mayor Tom McEnery, now a Democratic candidate for Congress here, the makeover of San Jose has included construction of a convention center, a half-dozen office towers, three new hotels, two new museums, a 20-mile light rail line, an open-air shopping pavilion and highway extensions to ease access to the core of what is, in effect, a brand new, pastel granite city.
 
Focus on Arts Institutions
 The next stage of the makeover will focus on the city's arts institutions, which include a symphony, an opera company, a civic light opera, a repertory theater, a children's museum, a technology museum and an art museum. This weekend the art museum will begin a $4.4 million collaboration, primarily financed by the San Jose Redevelopment Agency, with the Whitney Museum of Art in New York City. The agency will also have a role in the financing of a new home for the repertory theater and the construction of a 4,000-seat, eight-screen movie complex.
The collaboration between the two museums will include four shows in San Jose over the next six years, composed of masterpieces from the Whitney's 10,000-piece collection. The first show, tracing developments in contemporary American art from 1900 to 1940, opens on Saturday.
The arts institutions here, even before an infusion of capital from the city, kept the downtown alive, if barely, during the early years of redevelopment, when the streets were torn apart by rail construction and the first wave of new buildings seemed a stage set for a city rather than a city itself.
But none of the arts groups individually -- nor all of them in combination -- drew the huge, diverse crowds to San Jose's center that have come since the opening of the arena.
Frank Jirik, executive vice president for building operations, said 1.3 million people had passed through the arena since its opening in September for circuses, ice shows, concerts, amateur and professional sporting events and tractor pulls.
"There's something for everybody," Mr. McEnery said. "It's very much like a town center of old. Everybody goes there -- every race, every economic part of society."
Mr. McEnery supported the arena against the advice of many political advisers, who mistakenly thought residents here would oppose it.
The arena was set just blocks from the heart of downtown so that patrons, 70 percent of them from surrounding Santa Clara County and many of the rest from points south like Monterey and Gilroy, would get a taste of the revitalized central San Jose.
 
Hints of Financial Lift
 So far, the evidence of economic benefit from the arena is anecdotal, but compelling, and is being compared to the situation in downtown Phoenix, where the America West Arena spurred a 13 percent increase in tax revenue after its 1992 opening.
San Jose has yet to tally the total economic impact. But, for example, the Tied House Cafe and Brewery on San Pedro Square, the closest commercial strip to the arena, says its business has quadrupled. And a 45,000-foot sports bar in the new shopping pavilion has been doubly blessed. Shark fans without tickets watch the games there and those with tickets come to eat before games and drink afterward.
There seems no question that residents of the Silicon Valley are hungry for entertainment in their own backyard: tickets for the Pavarotti concert sold out in 59 minutes, those for the Streisand concert in 26 minutes and Sharks' playoff tickets in 11. And when the Sharks showed early-round, out-of-town playoff games on big screen televisions at the arena, more than 6,000 people showed up to watch and then to skate on the hallowed ice.
The people who live here can barely swallow a smug smile when they hear of San Franciscans grousing about having to drive here for events like last month's Pavarotti concert, or for the 1996 United States Figure Skating Championships or the 1997 National Collegiate Athletic Association regional basketball tournament -- the sort of event that they had long considered their own.
"We've been schlepping somewhere else for years to do things," said Vicki L. Herl, manager of the retail pavilion. "We don't have any sympathy for them on that one."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The rebirth of downtown San Jose., Calif., has been largely a result of a new arena, which brought the city into the big leagues of sports and entertainment. The mascot of the San Jose Sharks hockey team was held aloft by fans celebrating a victory Monday night in a playoff game against the Toronto Maple Leafs. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times); A revitalized downtown, helped by a new arena and a lively arts scene, has given San Jose's 821,700 residents something to brag about. (Christopher Ayres)
 
Graph/Map: "DEMOGRAPHICS: A City's Growth" tracks the populations of San Fransisco and San Jose, from 1990, and shows the relative locations of both.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SAN JOSE SHARKS BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (72%); SAN JOSE SHARKS (91%); SAN JOSE SHARKS (91%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN JOSE SHARKS SAN JOSE SHARKS (91%); SAN JOSE SHARKS (91%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%); TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS (59%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE (CALIF); UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NYTRAVEL; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOCKEY, ICE ; CULTURE SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MAYORS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); SUBURBS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); ICE HOCKEY (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); TRENDS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); SEMICONDUCTORS (66%); POP & ROCK (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (62%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (50%); 

PERSON: HAMMER, SUSAN (MAYOR); GROSS, JANE MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (57%); BARBRA JOAN STREISAND (55%); MARIE DIONNE 'DIONNE' WARWICK (54%); LUCIANO PAVAROTTI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



131 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Growth Off; Labor Costs Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 5

 BODY:
Growth in nonfarm productivity slowed sharply in the first quarter, as labor costs rose by the largest amount in more than three years, the Labor Department said today.
Analysts blamed harsh winter weather for the 5 percent rise in labor costs, which reflected a slowing in the rate of economic growth. Meanwhile, the five-tenths of 1 percent increase in productivity was down sharply from the fourth quarter's 6.4 percent gain, when the economy was growing at the fastest pace in a decade. 
 Productivity measures the time, effort and cost of producing goods. Rising productivity suggests businesses are improving their efficiency in delivering goods at competitive prices. Conversely, a slowing of productivity growth could signal a rise in inflation.
In this case, however, analysts saw few red flags in today's report. "It's the weather," said Robert Dederick, chief economist at Northern Trust in Chicago. "Labor costs are being held well in check," particularly in manufacturing.
Bond investors seemed to agree. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond was unchanged at 7.33 percent.
Meanwhile, another Labor Department report today showed that the lingering effects of a truckers' strike contributed to a larger-than-expected increase in the number of workers joining the nation's unemployment lines last week.
First-time jobless claims rose 17,000, to a seasonally adjusted 350,000. Analysts had expected an increase of just 1,000 claims. The four-week moving average for claims, a less volatile barometer of employment, rose to 349,750 from 346,250.
Today's economic reports were overshadowed on Wall Street by concerns over the April employment report, to be released on Friday, which will provide a better gauge of the economy's strength.
In surveys, economists forecast that the economy added 170,000 to 190,000 jobs last month, following an increase of 456,000 in March. Bond yields soared after the March report was released, even though economists said the employment gain was a weather-related rebound from the winter's severe storms.
Inflation worries have played a large role in the move toward higher interest rates, and on first blush, today's productivity report appeared to confirm investors' worst fears, with a 5 percent increase in total labor costs in the first quarter -- the largest gain since the fourth quarter of 1990 -- after declining 3.3 percent in the fourth quarter.
But analysts called the rise in labor costs a statistical quirk that reflected the economy's reduced output during the winter storms. Indeed, last week the Government said wages, salaries and benefits rose just seven-tenths of 1 percent in the first quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NORTHERN TRUST CORP (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; WAGES AND SALARIES PRODUCTIVITY (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); INFLATION (89%); WEATHER (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); TRUCK DRIVERS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



132 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Pioneering Bronx Plant To Recycle City's Paper

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
In the first inner-city project of its type in the nation, one of the country's leading environmental organizations, two paper companies and a community development group are expected to announce a proposal today for a $100 million plant in the South Bronx to produce recycled paper from New York City's trash.
Proponents say the project is intended to take advantage of what environmentalists call the "urban forest" -- the vast amounts of paper discarded by offices every day. But for residents of the South Bronx, the plant would also be intended to create perhaps 300 new jobs and bring other economic benefits, including housing, training, day care and health care services for the workers. 
 The planners, who have been quietly discussing the project for two years, say they expect to raise $2 million from the paper companies and state and local governments to pay for detailed engineering and economic studies, which they hope to present to investors this fall to raise money for the plant.
The recycling operation, which would be run as a for-profit company called the Bronx Community Paper Company, would be on a 19-acre site in the old Harlem Rail Yard just north of Randalls Island and could be operating by fall 1996, planners said.
John Adams, executive director of the environmental group behind the plan, the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the project would also promote social values.
"We get everything we want: jobs, recycling, a process we like and social equity," he said. "We save lots of trees and end the waste of putting a valuable resource into landfills."
Clay Lifflander, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which seeks to attract businesses to the city, said the Guiliani administration supported the plan. "We will do what we can to help see this vision brought to reality," Mr. Lifflander said.
The White House, which last year issued an executive order requiring Federal agencies to increase their use of recycled paper, also praised the South Bronx plan. "This initiative shows that economic development, job creation and environmental protection can work together for the benefit of us all," Vice President Al Gore said in a statement.
The real test of the project's viability will be whether a business payoff can be seen by the paper companies and outside investors who will be asked to pay for the plant.
"This is not a social project for us -- we need the pulp," said James D. Black, a vice president of S. D. Warren, a Boston-based unit of the Scott Paper Company that has contributed $250,000 to the effort. The other paper company involved is the Modo Paper Company of Stockholm, which operates recycling plants in Europe and has contributed $300,000 so far to the South Bronx project.
"We need high-quality pulp to make printing and writing papers," Mr. Black said. "And our customers increasingly want recycled content."
Even for the business-minded, there may be pragmatic value in the perceived social benefits. Because of the participation of a community group, the Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, project organizers expect the active support of local residents, rather than the community opposition that can severely delay development proposals.
 
Partnership With Residents
 "The residents of the South Bronx appreciate being included as partners from the outset, rather than being cornered into the role of adversaries," said Yolanda Rivera, chairwoman of Banana Kelly, which is named for the curve of Kelly Street in the South Bronx.
Of the approximately $100 million it will cost to build and equip the plant, $6.2 million will be earmarked in advance for day care and health facilities, housing and education. "These social services will help people move out of unemployment to train for real jobs," Ms. Rivera said.
The plant is expected to employ 180 to 200 people, with approximately 100 more jobs coming from the related social services. Most of the people hired are expected to be from the South Bronx and would be trained by Banana Kelly.
If the money is in place, construction could begin in February, said Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council.
Although other companies in the city call themselves recyclers, their work involves only the collection of trash, which they sort to remove the recyclable materials, which are then bundled and sent outside New York City to be processed. The Bronx mill would be the first in the city to render used paper into clean pulp that paper companies could then make into high-grade printing and writing papers.
In recent years the number of paper-recycling plants has increased throughout the nation. But most have been in old paper mills in rural areas or in industrial parks in the Midwest, where land and labor are cheaper than in urban areas and where there tend to be fewer bureaucratic obstacles.
But with enough local support, the South Bronx could have certain advantages, Mr. Hershkowitz said. "The economics of transportation work in our favor," he said. "Most mills are hundreds of miles from cities, so we will have a $15-a-ton cost advantage."
David Gatton, an environmental adviser to the United States Conference of Mayors, said the project might set an important precedent by showing how abandoned inner-city industrial sites, like the Harlem Rail Yard, can be redeveloped.
Initial plans call for the installation of equipment to remove ink from used paper so the resulting pulp can be used to make new paper elsewhere. But if the venture is successful, a paper mill may be built on the site as well, which would bring additional employment.
Private haulers who collect paper from office buildings are expected to be main suppliers for the plant because they have access to large amounts of high-grade used paper, like the paper used for computer printouts. Paper collected by the city from residences is usually too contaminated by other materials to meet the plant's quality requirements.
Environmental groups and paper companies have been antagonists in the past because paper companies have been seen as damaging forests by cutting down large numbers of trees and by operating mills that emit air and water pollutants. In fact, the Natural Resources Defense Council has sued three paper companies in the last decade because of water pollution. And the council has a petition pending before the Environmental Protection Agency to ban discharges of dioxin, a toxic byproduct of paper bleaching -- a prohibition that could close some paper mills if enacted.
But environmentalists tend to like paper-recycling plants, because they use existing paper as their raw material, saving trees. And the recycling process to be used in the Bronx project, based on techniques developed in Japan, would minimize pollution by using none of the chlorine normally associated with paper bleaching. It would also use water recovered by a nearby city-operated waste-water treatment plant and be powered by "clean" electricity produced by a gas-fired generator to be built for the operation.
"This is the next stage of environmentalism," Mr. Hershkowitz said. "Instead of suing to stop projects we do not like, we are going to promote the ones we do like."
In addition to environmental and social goals, organizers are hoping to bring high esthetic values to the project. The architect Maya Lin, best known for her design of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, has been hired to design the plant and its surroundings.
In a written proposal, she said she wanted to showcase the recycling process, rather than hide it inside a featureless building, and to make ornamental, landscaping use of the water used in the process.
In addition, Ms. Lin's design specifies the use of recycled materials wherever possible.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two paper companies, an environmental group and a community development organization are proposing a $100 million paper-recycling plant in the South Bronx. Allen Hershkowitz, a scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council, and Yolanda Rivera, chairwoman of the Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, at the proposed site: a 19-acre section of the abandoned Harlem Rail Yard. (Chester Higgins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: METSB (HEL) (58%); METSA (HEL) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (60%); NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (58%); SIC2611 PULP MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WARREN, S D (CO); SCOTT PAPER CO; MODO PAPER CO; NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL; BANANA KELLY COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT ASSN SCOTT PAPER CO (60%); METSA BOARD CORP (58%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARREN, S D (CO); SCOTT PAPER CO; MODO PAPER CO; NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL; BANANA KELLY COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT ASSN NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PAPER AND PULP ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); PAPER MFG (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PAPER & PACKAGING (91%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (91%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: ;HOLUSHA, JOHN AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



133 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Stock Traders Reticent, Awaiting Jobs Data

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Stock prices closed essentially unchanged in light volume yesterday, as traders held back purchases in advance of closely watched employment data scheduled for release today by the Government.
Bond prices were little changed, and the dollar gained slightly, while the price of gold plunged. 
 Some stocks gained, however. Sears, Roebuck, the huge retailer, rose after strong same-store sales for April. Royal Dutch Petroleum, the oil company; American International Group, the insurance company, and Autodesk, a computer design software company, also gained.
But in general, traders were bracing for April unemployment data to be released this morning. The consensus estimate among private economists is for a 6.5 percent jobless rate, with the number of jobs increasing by 170,000 to 190,000.
Some traders contend that a larger-than-expected increase in the number of jobs created may prompt the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates for the fourth time in as many months. A surge in the March jobs data preceded the Fed's third rate increase last month.
Higher short-term interest rates may strengthen the dollar, which has dropped sharply against major currencies in recent weeks. But higher interest rates would increase companies' operating expenses, as well as damp loan demand, and thus might slow the economy.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.78 points, to 3,695.97, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 fell 0.34 point, to 451.38. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 0.25 point, to 740.55.
The number of shares changing hands on The New York Stock Exchange was below normal. Volume totaled nearly 256 million shares, or 16 percent below this year's average of 304 million shares.
The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond's yield was unchanged at 7.33 percent. The dollar rallied for a second day to close at 102.90 yen, up from 101.88 yen. Meanwhile, gold futures for June delivery, the spot month, fell $3.00, to $374.70 an ounce.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.26 point, to 250.49, and declines outnumbered advances by 1,087 to 1,019. The American Stock Exchange market value index fell 2.09 points, to 441.70.
Of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow, 18 fell, led by General Motors, which fell 1 1/8, to 55 5/8. The world's largest car maker said yesterday that it planned to cut car production by 9,300 cars, or six-tenths of 1 percent, in the second quarter, in part because of slightly slower sales of its mainstay Chevrolet cars.
In the S.& P. 500 stocks, 225 fell, led by G.M. and Pepsico, which dropped 1, to 36, on no clear news.
Intel was the most active stock yesterday, with 5.5 million shares traded. It rose 1/2, to 581/16 . On Wednesday, the company, which makes microprocessors for computers, forecast industry sales of personal computers at 100 million a year as early as 1998.
Cisco Systems, a maker of systems that link computers into networks, was the second-most-active stock at 5 million shares. It rose 3/4, to 31 1/2, after independent testing confirmed that its products performed faster than the nearest industry competitor.
Kmart was the third-most-active stock, with 4.4 million shares traded, and fell 3/8, to 15 5/8. It reported disappointing same-store sales for April.
Royal Dutch Petroleum rose 2 1/8, to 107 7/8, after the International Energy Agency said yesterday that demand for oil was rising. American International Group rose 2 1/2, to 88 1/4, after a variety of analysts said the stock might be undervalued. Autodesk gained 2 1/4, to 54 1/2, following comments by industry analysts that sales of personal computers would rise, thus helping software sales.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); RDSA (LSE) (72%); RDSA (AMS) (72%); RDS.B (NYSE) (72%); RDS.A (NYSE) (72%); ADSK (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (51%); PEP (NYSE) (50%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (72%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (72%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (58%); AUTODESK INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); PEPSICO INC (50%); INTEL CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



134 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: 'Whispers' Urged Rifkin to Kill, His Laywer Says

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., May 5

 BODY:
Testimony ended in the Joel Rifkin murder trial today with the defense contending that Mr. Rifkin was driven to kill by whispering voices from deep within his troubled psyche.
His lawyer, John Lawrence, said the whispers were clear evidence that Mr. Rifkin was a paranoid schizophrenic, unable to separate fantasy from reality and therefore legally insane when he murdered the 17 women he has confessed to killing. 
 Mr. Rifkin is on trial in Nassau County Court for the murder of his final victim, Tiffany Bresciani, who was 22 and lived in Manhattan. The prosecution has argued that while Mr. Rifkin may suffer from a long list of mental disorders, he was not legally insane when he killed. He knew the consequences of his conduct and that his conduct was wrong, the prosecution asserted.
In rebuttal, Mr. Lawrence contended that Mr. Rifkin suffered from a serious thought disorder that unhinged him from reality. "And in that dreaming-while-awake-state, Mr. Rifkin actually saw his dead victims as living people, talked with them and tried to provide for their comfort and safety," Mr. Lawrence said.
He drew the jury's attention to a transcript of a taped conversation between Mr. Rifkin and Dr. Park Elliot Dietz, chief witness for the prosecution.
According to the transcript, Mr. Rifkin told Dr. Dietz that at times he would speak to the corpses, "saying reassuring things as he drove with them." He also said he had positioned the body of one victim in a steel drum so she "would be comfortable."
Mr. Rifkin also told Dr. Dietz during the daylong examination that he liked Ms. Bresciani and did not want to kill her. But while he was pondering whether to strangle Ms. Bresciani, the "whispers" told him to do it, Mr. Rifkin told Dr. Dietz.
"It wasn't a casual command, it was a 'Yes,' probably the loudest I ever heard it," Mr. Rifkin said in the transcript.
Dr. Dietz raised the subject of "whispers" during his testimony for the prosecution on Wednesday. He then characterized them as nothing more than an "internal dialogue" by Mr. Rifkin, just as "everyone makes decisions," Dr. Dietz said.
Called back to the witness stand today by Mr. Williams, the doctor was asked whether such "whispers" might not be a delusion or hallucination -- both symptoms of paranoid schizophrenia. Dr. Dietz said he did not believe so, but added, "some might disagree on whether they are hallucinations."
Under further questioning, Dr. Dietz confirmed that Mr. Rifkin had told him of an incident in the basement of the Rifkin home in East Meadow, where Mr. Rifkin had killed one victim.
"The phone rang when he had a body in the basement, and he had a notion that the body was calling him," Dr. Dietz said.
Mr. Rifkin, who has worn his father's shoes and ring for reassurance while in court, sat at the defense table and showed little emotion or none. Mr. Rifkin, a 34-year-old unemployed landscaper, was arrested last June 28 with Ms. Bresciani's body in the back of his pickup truck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TRIALS; SERIAL MURDERS MURDER (91%); INSANITY DEFENSE (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); TRANSCRIPTS (89%); PARANOIA (89%); EVIDENCE (79%); JURY TRIALS (79%); LAWYERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (74%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, JOEL; MCQUISTON, JOHN T JOHN C LAWRENCE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



135 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Senate Returns to Debate Tax, Gun and Budget Bills

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 5

 BODY:
The State Senate will return to the Capitol on Friday to open a special session to act on budget, tax and gun-control bills that were pending when time expired on the General Assembly's regular 1994 session at midnight Wednesday.
The regular session, its dates and duration set by the State Constitution, ended much as it began 12 weeks ago, with Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. and legislators talking about large tax cuts that would take effect years in the future. 
 Democratic leaders in the House and Senate say they are agreed on the tax cuts and have majorities to enact them in the special session. Mr. Weicker, who put off the Governor's traditional end-of-session address to the General Assembly until its work is done, said he was in agreement too.
But Republicans are likely to force debate again on the issue that has shadowed legislators: the wisdom of adopting large tax cuts that will take place in the future, or of increasing spending, when state government is still learning to live with budget controls adopted after a personal income tax was enacted in 1991.
 
Two-Year Process
 As the Senate considered the resolution calling for a special session, Senator William H. Nickerson, a Republican from Greenwich, asked about the Democrats' insistence that the Legislature reconvene to finish action on the budget and tax bills.
A budget for the next fiscal year was already in place, under a two-year budgeting process begun in 1993 to counter a steady increase in state spending. So, he asked, were the Democrats saying the Legislature wasn't bound by that process?
Republicans and business-oriented analysts of government spending say that the fiscal crisis that produced Connecticut's income tax in 1991 is not over. After almost no growth in state spending that year, when the government shut down at one point for lack of a budget, spending increased $2.1 billion, or 24 percent, during the rest of Mr. Weicker's term.
The state's bonded debt has increased even more, and debt payments have nearly doubled since 1991. Spending on prisons and welfare (much of it Medicaid payments to nursing homes) has also soared; with debt service, they account for nearly half of the $9.2 billion budget, compared with 30 percent in 1989.
The Weicker administration's main response, according to the Connecticut Policy and Economic Council, which analyzes spending by local and state governments, has been to raise more revenue through the income tax and increased Federal reimbursements for programs like Medicaid. The actual structure and operations of government, critics say, haven't been addressed.
This year the House and Senate acted to hold down spending mainly by rejecting arbitration awards that would have given raises to unionized state employees. Wednesday night, the Senate put aside its tax bill to reject the last of the awards, for health workers, rather than risk running out of time and having it take effect by default.
But for the second year, the General Assembly failed to agree on a bill to add a constitutional spending cap to the two-year budget. The main use made of the spending controls already in place -- the two-year budgets, plus three-year forecasts of revenue and spending beyond them -- was to support proposals for tax cuts promoted as the largest in state history.
Mr. Weicker opened the session with a proposal for $700 million in tax cuts to be phased in during the next decade. Of that plan, $79 million a year in tax savings on computer equipment owned by businesses was the main survivor by Wednesday, to start taking effect in 1996.
But by then the idea of returning home with a sizable tax cut had gripped many legislators, especially Senator James H. Maloney, a Democrat from Danbury who was not only the Senate finance chairman, but also a candidate for Congress in the Fifth District.
Though the original impetus for tax relief among legislators was to help homeowners with high property taxes, especially in the cities, the tax plan that Mr. Weicker, Mr. Maloney and other Democratic leaders finally agreed on applied to car taxes, without regard to residence or income.
The plan would allow people to subtract their local personal-property tax on vehicles from their state income-tax payments. All the tax on the first $15,000 of assessed value could be subtracted, and then 50 percent of the assessed value up to $25,000.
In a community that taxed cars at 30 mills ($30 per $1,000 of value), the income-tax credit would be worth $450 to someone with a car assessed at $15,000, and $600 to someone with a car valued at $25,000.
The credit, however, would not begin to take effect until 1997, when people could subtract 25 percent of their car taxes from the state's tax on their 1996 income. In 2001, when the full amount could be taken, the credits would total $220 million.
Senator Maloney denied that his candidacy was a factor in pressing a tax bill so late in the session. "The Senate supported me," he said late Wednesday. "But the House and Senate didn't have an agreement until Tuesday, and we didn't have an agreement with the Governor until this morning."
 
'Issues Are Resolved'
 Today, the House Speaker, Thomas D. Ritter, and the majority leader, Thomas S. Luby (Mr. Maloney's opponent for the Fifth District nomination), said they expected the tax bill to pass easily in the House once the Senate acted on it. "The issues are resolved," Mr. Luby said.
Mr. Levin said he had no disagreement with tax cuts proposed for the future, because forecasts show a growing surplus in the next several years. He was concerned, he said, that the eventual goal appeared to be any tax cut, rather than one intended to support a principle, such as equalizing property taxes.
"I think they want to be able to go out and say we produced the biggest tax cut we've ever had, never mind it wasn't the one that people wanted," he said. "I'm hoping this agreement is negated or modified, and I won't be surprised if it is if people have time to look at it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE SENATE (93%); GENERAL ASSEMBLY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (93%); GENERAL ASSEMBLY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; TAXATION; GUN CONTROL; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GUN CONTROL (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); NURSING HOMES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE LOWELL P WEICKER JR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



136 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up Amid Speculation About Further Intervention

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar rallied against other leading currencies yesterday amid speculation that the world's big central banks might team up again to support it.
The Federal Reserve and more than a dozen other central banks aggressively bought dollars on Wednesday to halt the currency's recent slump. There were no signs of central bank intervention in the currency markets yesterday, traders said, though many expect the banks to return if the dollar resumes its slide. 
 "People are nervous about the central banks coming back," said Earl Johnson, a foreign-exchange adviser at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. "Their attack was very effective."
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6668 German marks, up 1.5 pfennigs from 1.6531 marks on Wednesday. It rose as high as 1.6712 marks in London trading.
The dollar also jumped to 102.90 Japanese yen from 101.88 yen.
 
Propping Up the Dollar
 "Central bankers accomplished what they set out to do," said Kevin Lawrie, a foreign-exchange manager at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "The dollar is higher, at least for now."
The Fed and its allies propped up the dollar as it tumbled toward a post-World War II low against the yen and a six-month low against the mark. The dollar fell in the first four months of the year as American stock and bond prices tumbled and traders lost confidence in the currency.
Speculation that the Clinton Administration wanted a strong yen to balance trade with Japan also weighed on the dollar. It tumbled last year after American officials said a strong yen would curb Japan's trade surplus by making its exports more expensive. But traders said the Fed's aggressive action on Wednesday indicated that the Administration might have stopped talking up the yen.
"There has been a significant change in U.S. policy on the dollar," said Paul Farrell, manager of strategic currency trading at Chase Manhattan Bank. "The dollar's weakness against the yen was seeping into other exchange rates and other markets."
 
Jobs Report Awaited
 Other traders said they were reluctant to sell the dollar before today's report on employment in April, which could be stronger than expected.
In surveys, economists said the economy probably added 170,000 to 190,000 jobs in April, down from 456,000 in March. A larger number could prompt the Fed to raise interest rates to control the inflation that often accompanies an economic recovery, traders said. Higher rates usually make dollar-denominated assets more attractive.
The Fed pushed up short-term interest rates three times this year. Many traders dumped dollars after the increases failed to drive the currency higher.
"The dollar's problems aren't over," said Mr. Johnson at Harris Trust. "People want to see the employment number before they do anything with it."
In New York, the British pound slipped to $1.4992 from $1.5021. And the Canadian dollar rose to 72.39 United States cents from 72.07 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); CENTRAL BANKS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); BOND MARKETS (71%); BONDS (71%); EXPORT PRICES (69%); WORLD WAR II (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); 

PERSON: BEN NELSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



137 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Goes Ghostbusting

BYLINE: By Lester C. Thurow; Lester C. Thurow is professor of management and economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Board has been spooked by the ghost of inflation. In its panic, the Fed has raised interest rates three times, taking everyone by surprise. Long-term bondholders have lost billions and international currency markets have been rattled. Yet the Fed's economists admit they can't point to even a hint of inflation in the current numbers. They are missing the obvious: the 90's are likely to be an inflation-free decade, and their interest rate hikes will squash the current economic recovery.
The 70's and 80's were inflationary times. The failure to raise taxes to pay for the Vietnam War led to slowly accelerating inflation that exploded with the oil and food shocks of the 70's. Inflation stubbornly receded in the 80's. If the effects of surging health care costs are subtracted from inflation figures, it is clear that more prices have fallen than risen this spring. 
 Sophisticated investors including George Soros, Citicorp and Bankers Trust took huge losses because of the Fed's action. They were betting on low interest rates because they had no worries about inflation. The Fed's economists contend that it takes 12 to 18 months for higher interest rates to stop inflation, so they are acting now to prevent renewed inflation in 1995. In the Fed's view, the economy is so prone to inflation that even this slow recovery from the 1991-1992 recession -- 3 percent growth in 1993 and 2.6 percent in the first quarter of this year -- represents an overheated economy.
The 90's began with a deflationary crash in asset values: property prices in the United States declined by up to 50 percent. This trend spread to England, flattened Japan and is now rocking Germany. While the U.S. stock market has risen (the money flowing into pension and mutual funds has had nowhere else to go), the inflation-adjusted fall in the Japanese stock market in the 90's has been bigger than the decline in the American stock market from 1929 through 1932. Worldwide, hundreds of billions of dollars in wealth have been wiped out.
One traditional cause of inflation is a shortage of labor, which drives up wages. Yet global unemployment rates are reaching levels not seen since the Depression. Spain reports 24 percent and Ireland and Finland not much less. In the U.S., if one adds together the officially unemployed, discouraged workers who have stopped actively searching for work and those with part-time jobs who want full-time work, 15 percent of the labor force (19 million) is looking for work.
The Fed is worried that an increasing number of U.S. companies are running close to their production limits -- that they will be unable to keep up with the demand for goods, thus driving up prices. But in today's global economy, what counts is world capacity, not U.S. capacity. No American will have to wait for a new car: since auto makers in Japan and Europe aren't producing at anywhere near capacity, U.S. producers aren't going to raise prices and sit by and watch their market share erode. While America's economic recovery is under way, the rest of the industrial world shows no sign of coming back; until it does, inflation will not quicken.
The demise of the Soviet Union and the effective collapse of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in the aftermath of the Persian Gulf War means there will be no repetition of the energy or food shocks of the 70's. What has been happening in aluminum will be repeated in most raw materials: 1.3 million metric tons were exported from the former Soviet Union in 1993, causing the lowest real (adjusted for inflation) prices in history.
Oil prices are lower in real terms than before the first OPEC oil shock in the early 70's, yet exports from the former Soviet Union have barely begun and Iraq has yet to be brought back into world oil markets. When Ukraine comes back into production (it was the world's largest exporter of grain in the 19th century), food prices will plunge.
The decline in real wages that began in the U.S. and is spreading across the industrial world further undermines the Fed's contentions. Among American men, salaries are falling at every education level -- for those in the bottom 60 percent income bracket, real wages are 20 percent below 1973 levels. Women with a high school education or less have seen their wages drop, and it looks like the same will happen to college educated women soon. At the same time, productivity is increasing at the highest rates seen since the 60's. Wages down, productivity up -- that simply isn't the recipe for inflation.
Economists differ on the causes of falling wages. Immigration and technical innovation are partly responsible, but some worldwide trends are also behind it. The Communist bloc did not run very good economies but it ran excellent education systems. One-third of humanity, much of it skilled, is joining the capitalist world. If some of the world's best physicists can be hired in Russia for $100 per month, why should anyone pay a third-rate American physicist $50,000 a year?
In the 80's, only 60 million people in Singapore, South Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan were export-oriented. With the decline of state socialism in East Asia, hundreds of millions of third-worlders (two billion Indians and Chinese) are going to be joining them. Inflation is going to be impossible in any country with open borders: lower-priced goods will flood in from low-wage countries.
In addition, the layoffs at big U.S. companies with high wages and good benefits are unrelenting. More than 109,000 jobs were cut in January, a record. Getting rehired after being laid off usually means a cut in pay, and the competition for these lower-paying jobs drives overall wages -- thus inflation -- further down.
Since World War II, American companies have typically held prices constant, or even raised them, while distributing the fruits of productivity in the form of higher wages or profits. But under the pressure of international competition, that system is rapidly eroding. In the 90's productivity gains will lead to lower prices, not wage increases.
Large manufacturers are forging new arrangements with their suppliers. For example, Chrysler used to have hundreds of suppliers, but it has given a few of them exclusive rights to supply all of its parts, and Chrysler engineers will give them design information. In exchange, the suppliers will lower their prices every year. In such scenarios, the manufacturers will in turn pass their savings on to customers in the form of lower prices.
At least one member of the Federal Reserve Board has extolled the virtues of zero or negative inflation. This ignores a tenet of capitalism: it doesn't work very well when prices are falling. When prices fall (and many prices must fall to have zero inflation, since some prices will always be rising), the smartest move is to postpone purchases. With prices lower tomorrow, only a fool buys today. So investment falls as people forgo entrepreneurship to become inactive rentiers. Money in the mattress becomes the only smart investment. Deflationary times are tough times.
Yet the Fed is intent on killing a very weak recovery that has yet to include most Americans. The 7 percent growth rate in the fourth quarter of 1993 was heavily concentrated in housing, automobiles and business equipment. High interest rates will hurt these sectors, and the Fed's large rate increases have hit the economy at a time when growth has already slowed dramatically.
Since January, interest rates on 30-year Treasury bonds have risen 1.3 percent and those on 30-year fixed rate mortgages have risen 1.5 percent. These rates did not soar because of worries about inflation. Rather, they reflect the payoff that investors must demand to protect themselves from a Fed that thinks inflation is about to rise from the grave. The Fed's erratic behavior has also led to a currency crisis that made necessary Wednesday's billion-dollar effort to protect the dollar. While nobody has ever been hurt by ghosts, investors are showing that they have real reason to fear a ghost-busting Fed.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (74%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (74%); ENGLAND (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (85%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (64%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (54%); 

PERSON: THUROW, LESTER C GEORGE SOROS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



138 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Contest of 2 Lobbies

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
The struggle in Washington on whether the United States should continue to allow Communist China low-tariff privilege involves a skein of American interests -- political, economic, strategic and moral.
But at its center are some simple realities that confront President Clinton, and every American who has hopes for him, as he nears the decision he has to make before June 3. 
 1. On May 28, 1993, Mr. Clinton signed an order committing him to remove those privileges unless by June 3, 1994, China had made "significant progress" toward human rights in China and occupied Tibet.
Congress was about to pass again a bill writing that either-or plan into law -- a bill once vetoed by President Bush. Mr. Clinton persuaded Congress to let him do the job himself, by executive order.
2. In the year since, repression by police and army power in China and Tibet has remained unalleviated.
Its instruments, used day in, day out as consistently as ever, are prison torture, religious persecution, arrest of political dissidents, forced confessions, arbitrary detention and the enforcement of the official bastions of economic growth: cheap labor, prison labor, slave labor and prohibition of labor unions.
To all this, despite a few carefully timed prisoner releases, the State Department's own reports bear witness.
3. Now Mr. Clinton is under pressure by American companies trading with China to decide that somehow Number 2 fulfills the promises he made to the American and Chinese people in Number 1.
Naturally, not a soul in Congress, the Administration or business believes for a moment that China has improved its human rights record. The China lobby wants to dump the promises of last year altogether or slide around them by accepting as progress more Beijing statements of intent like the ones they have already broken.
4. The China lobby in and out of government sells economic fear. It says the debate is about America "pulling out" of China economically. Nobody has suggested that. The lobby and its servants lie.
The China lobby heavily breathes warning that China itself will cut off trade with the U.S. The Communists are not suicides.
China exports to the U.S. $25 billion more than it buys from America. The exports to the U.S. are 38 percent of China's world total. Without American customers, China's growing trade deficit could bring the economy down. Who should be worried about whom?
5. The majority of Americans are against low American tariffs to China because they strengthen the wardens of the gulag. These Americans are not without voice or courage.
Most of Congress is behind them. So is the energetic human rights lobby -- Asia Watch, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the International Campaign for Tibet, Amnesty International. They count.
6. But the China lobby has the money. The Clinton Administration is sending out so many mixed signals, and so many are craven, that Washington is convinced Mr. Clinton is caving fast.
The meaning of Mr. Clinton's 1993 order was clear: No human rights progress, no tariff privileges. A year later, nobody of knowledge in Washington seems to believe other than that Mr. Clinton will sidle away from that.
The struggle now is about what is left. Should the human rights policy just be dumped as a lost cause? Or can Mr. Clinton save his name with a few more promises of intent from Beijing? How about a China-U.S. commission to improve human rights? Or a human rights code, not for the Communists but for American businesses in China?
If nobody can keep a straight face about those, how about ending the low tariffs only for goods produced by the state and the army? Maybe the Chinese will attach neat labels, for the convenience of U.S. customs?
The human rights people would rather have some compromise than nothing, so that they can fight another day. Most are too strong in soul to just vomit and walk away.
By nature, many daily newspapermen are optimistic. How could they otherwise keep confronting the keyboard?
All right: Honorable people in government still struggle for Mr. Clinton's mind and honor. So it's best to keep calling around, until the President makes his decision about the Executive Order of May 1993, now that it is May 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TIBET (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TIBET (93%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); VETO (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SLAVERY (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (73%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRISONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); TORTURE (70%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); RELIGION (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



139 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 6, 1994,

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
British Company Will Buy General Cable

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON 

 BODY:
Wassall P.L.C., a diversified manufacturing conglomerate, said yesterday that it would buy all the stock and debt of the General Cable Corporation for about $269.8 million.
Wassall, which is based in London and has United States holdings that include the sealant and adhesive maker DAP Inc., said it hoped to increase the profitability of General Cable and benefit from the improving United States economy. 
 General Cable, based in Highland Heights, Ky., makes commercial building wire and telecommunications cable. It had sales last year of $764.5 million, down from $800.8 million in 1992. In the first quarter, General Cable had a loss of $1.6 million, compared with a loss of $8.5 million in the comparable quarter a year ago.
General Cable had been a subsidiary of the Penn Central Corporation, one of the companies controlled by the Cincinnati financier Carl H. Lindner 3d. Penn Central, which changed its name in March to American Premier Underwriters Inc. to reflect its transformation into an insurer, had spun off General Cable to shareholders in July 1992.
As part of the spinoff, about 40 percent of General Cable's stock was distributed to the public and the remaining stock and debt were held by Mr. Lindner's companies. The company has since been reorganized and is beginning to see the benefits of consolidated operations in improving earnings, said James E. Schwabb, a senior vice president and treasurer.
As part of Wassall's planned acquisition, American Premier agreed to accept a discount just under 33 percent on debt owed by General Cable. Wassall will pay $169.8 million for the $253.4 million note.
"We're better off taking the cash now," said Philip A. Hagel, treasurer of American Premier, adding that investors had expressed concern over whether the debt would be repaid. "We were coming out of a period where business operations had been affected by the recession," he said. "This company was not profitable."
Wassall has conditionally agreed to buy 54 percent of General Cable's shares owned by three of Mr. Lindner's companies, and pay $6 a share in a tender offer beginning on Wednesday for the remainder. Wassall, which earned $26.5 million last year on $415 million in sales, intends to pay for the deal in part with a one-for-four rights offering that will raise $139 million.
Analysts said the acquisition should contribute to earnings at Wassall, which also makes luggage, office furniture and soda caps.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Closing stock prices for Wassall P.L.C., Oct. 1993 - March 1994. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGC (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); NAICS335929 OTHER COMMUNICATION & ENERGY WIRE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE (94%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2891 ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (58%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL CABLE CORP; WASSALL PLC AMERICAN PREMIER UNDERWRITERS INC (94%); GENERAL CABLE CORP (94%); WASSALL PLC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL CABLE CORP; WASSALL PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); OHIO, USA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); MISC ALUMINUM PRODUCT MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TENDER OFFERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS MFG (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (72%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994



140 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-8
 
EMBARGO IMPOSED ON HAITI
The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously to impose a near-total trade embargo on Haiti to try to force its military rulers to permit the return of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide as President. 1 

Montrouis Journal: A proposed stepping stone for Haiti's leader. 4
 
MANDELA NAMES A CABINET
With his election landslide validated as free and fair, Nelson Mandela hastened to put his stamp on the new Government. He named Thabo Mbeki as his vice president and heir apparent and a list of Cabinet ministers dominated by war horses of the struggle against white rule. 1
 
COLOMBIA LEGALIZES DRUG USE
A high court in Colombia has legalized the personal use of cocaine, marijuana and other drugs. The ruling worsens tensions over what officials in Washington see as attempts by some Colombian officials to undermine the war against drugs. 3
 
REFUGEE ISSUE ROILS ISRAEL
A dispute broke out in Israel over planned talks on the fate of Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza Strip who were displaced by the 1967 war. Opposition figures said that even raising the matter was a threat to Israel's existence. 3
 
CHANNEL TUNNEL OPENS WITH POMP
In a half-hour journey that changed the map of Europe, Queen Elizabeth II of Britain and President Francois Mitterrand of France crossed beneath the waters of the English Channel by train, inaugurating a long-awaited rail tunnel. 6
 
SHOWDOWN IN A BOSNIAN CORRIDOR
If cut off from the warehouses and arsenals in Serbia, Serbian resistance in Bosnia could evaporate, the Muslim-led Bosnian Government reasons. So Muslim forces are resolved to take Brcko, a strategic town in the throat of a northern Serbian-held corridor. 6
 
Washington berated a U.N. envoy for letting Serb tanks violate a ban. 6
 
FLOGGED TEEN-AGER SAID TO SUFFER
An American diplomat was permitted to see Michael Fay, the 18-year-old American who was flogged in Singapore for vandalism. The envoy said the jailed teen-ager was sedated and still in pain, with deep slashing wounds on his buttocks. 8
 
A Japanese official recanted his denial of the Nanjing massacre. 8
 
National 9-12
 
STRONG JOB GROWTH IN APRIL
In an unexpectedly vigorous performance, the economy generated 267,000 new jobs in April, more than regaining the ground it had lost to harsh winter weather, the Labor Department said. 1
 
CLINTON ABORTION ORDER UPHELD
A Federal judge ordered Colorado to comply with a Clinton Administration order to use public money for abortions for low-income women in cases of rape or incest. 1
 
A jury awarded clinics $204,000 from abortion protesters. 10
 
A TOBACCO COMPANY'S SILENCE
Internal documents from Brown & Williamson show that tobacco company executives struggled with the question of whether to disclose to the Surgeon General what they knew about smoking hazards in 1963. 1
 
Ill smokers sued the tobacco industry for $200 billion. 11
 
DROP IN TOXIC CHEMICAL LEVELS
Concentrations of many toxic chemicals in people's bodies and in the environment across the Great Lakes region have dropped sharply since the 1970's, scientists reported. 1
 
INQUIRY ON GULF WAR SYNDROME
Mystery illnesses of Gulf war veterans may have been caused by drugs they got for protection against chemical and biological warfare, according to a Senate report. 9
 
WOMAN SUES CLINTON
A former Arkansas state employee sued President Clinton, accusing him of making a sexual advance while he was Governor in 1991. 9
 
The suit against Mr. Clinton is based on Reconstruction-era laws. 9
 
I.N.S. TO RELEASE HAITIANS
The immigration service is preparing to release 411 Haitians detained since the Coast Guard rescued them late last month. 12
 
THE CONVERSION OF MR. HYDE
Henry Hyde, a conservative Republican and scourge of liberals on abortion, found himself drawn to the ranks of gun-control supporters. 10
 
WORKER HEALTH DATA RESISTED
The White House asked Congress to scrap a requirement that employers report information on the health insurance coverage of employees. 10
 
KING'S LAWYERS REST THEIR CASE
Lawyers for Rodney King rested their case after former Police Chief Daryl Gates testified, defending Los Angeles police and his leadership of the department. 10
 
Religion notes: The season to debate commencement prayers. 12
 
Metro Digest 25
 
NEW CITY HOMELESS PLAN
Mayor Giuliani announced a plan to deny shelter to homeless families that refuse to participate in treatment or training programs. 1
 
LOST BROOKLYN GIRL FOUND
A 14-year-old Brooklyn girl who disappeared on Wednesday during an outing in a Connecticut park was found by the police in dense woods, frightened and tired. 1
 
Business Digest 39
 
Arts/Entertainment 13-19, 51
 
Parodists of P.C. 13
 
Art: Florentine drawings. 13
 
Film: "3 Ninjas Kick Back." 18
 
Dance: Ballet Theater. 18
 
"Pierrot" by Jennifer Muller 19
 
"Not-About-AIDS-Dance." 19
 
Sports 31-36
 
Baseball: Yanks' Key 4-hits Red Sox. 33
 
Franco's walks sink Mets. 33
 
Basketball: Knicks oust Nets. 31
 
Boxing: Lennox wins, Moorer yawns. 31
 
Column: Rhoden on Coleman. 31
 
Football: Jets drop Nagle. 31
 
Hockey: Rangers eye 2d sweep. 35
 
Horse Racing: Rain an added Derby starter. 34
 
Obituaries 29-30
 
Rev. Harold B. Robinson, Episcopal Bishop. 29
 
Michael H. Walsh, ex-chairman and chief executive of Tenneco Inc. 30
 
Rabbi Moses Rosen, leader of Romanian Jews. 30
 
John P. Roche, scholar and counselor to Presidents. 30
 
Louise Troy, actress. 30
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 22-23
 
Editorials
 
North Korea yields a bit.
 
A mixed message from City Hall.
 
Critical freedom.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: The joys of Rome.
 
Anna Quindlen: Q. and A.
 
Vincent Lane: Fields of battle: rights vs. guns.
 
Ira Glasser: Protect the tenants.
 
Charles Ogletree and Abbe Smith: Clinton's plan is misguided.
 
Rob Gurwitt: Change the projects.
 
Bridge 16
 
Chronicle 24
 
Crossword 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); SERBIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (57%); 

STATE: JIANGSU, CHINA (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); SERBIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (57%); JIANGSU, CHINA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SMOKING (85%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (84%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); VERDICTS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (74%); DRUG POLICY (74%); REFUGEES (73%); VANDALISM (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); JUDGES (71%); TRAINS (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%); COCAINE (69%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (67%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (66%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (66%); ABORTION (63%); TOBACCO MFG (62%); JOB CREATION (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (57%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



141 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: SURGE IN NEW JOBS REKINDLES WORRIES OF MORE INFLATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6

 BODY:
In an unexpectedly vigorous performance, the economy generated 267,000 new jobs in April, showing that it was more than regaining the ground it had lost to harsh winter weather.
Today's employment report jolted the stock and bond markets as it raised new concerns about the possibility of a surge of inflation from a rapidly growing economy. Interest rates jumped. 
 Labor Department figures released today also showed that the gain would have been 73,000 higher had it not been for a strike in the trucking industry.
The nation's unemployment rate, meanwhile, edged down a tenth of a point, to 6.4 percent. The rate for adult women dropped to 5.6 percent, the same as for adult men.
Speculation mounted on Wall Street that the Federal Reserve would soon push up short-term interest rates for the fourth time this year in an effort to slow economic growth and ease any inflationary pressures.
The bond market was especially unnerved, and the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond posted its biggest increase since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. [Page 39.]
Although there is little evidence so far of revived inflation, the Fed has said it cannot afford to wait for clear signs, since this has often proved to be too late. Of course, economists and political leaders disagree about how much correlation there is between economic growth and high inflation, with some Democrats contending that the economy has much more room to grow before inflation poses a threat.
And President Clinton's nominee to become vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan S. Blinder, who has a reputation for being less worried about inflation than are some other Fed members, told Congress today that he shared a concern that strong economic growth could push prices up again. [Page 39.]
Indeed, even as Congressional Democrats sought to portray inflation as continuing to decline, researchers at Columbia University said their index designed to forecast inflation registered a seventh straight advance.
"A cyclical upswing in the inflation rate later this year has now become very likely," said the university's Center for International Business Cycle Research.
The employment report, providing the first comprehensive assessment of the economy last month, showed job gains concentrated in construction, the retail trade and services -- industries where growth had been strong before being crippled by bad weather in early 1994. Underlying growth, said Katharine G. Abraham, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, now "appears to be running at about twice the average monthly rate that we saw in 1993."
April's 267,000 increase in nonfarm payrolls exceeded economists' expectations, which ranged from 170,000 to 190,000 jobs. Analysts were particularly impressed that April's gain came on top of revisions that lifted growth in February to 278,000, from 198,000, and also added 8,000 to the eye-popping March surge, now put at 464,000.
"The economy's in good shape -- and it's generating jobs," said Brian M. Jones, an economist at Salomon Brothers. Noting that the average workweek and factory overtime remained at record levels, he and others said companies seemed close to exhausting their ability to avoid hiring workers.
 
 
New York Counters Trend
 One prominent exception to job-market improvement, however, has been New York State. Although the rise in its unemployment rate last month was a negligible one-tenth of a point, at 8.2 percent New York has the second-highest rate among the 11 big industrial states for which data were reported today. Indeed, the state has lost 97,000 jobs in the last 12 months, a worse performance even than California, which gained 116,000 jobs in the period.
The biggest changes last month were a 1.1-point decline for Texas, to 6.3 percent, and a 1-point jump for California, to 9.6 percent. The rate for New Jersey eased to 7.2 percent from 7.9, a change of marginal statistical significance because sample sizes for individual states are much smaller than the national figures.
Today's report, though showing only a scant 3,000 rise in factory jobs, was hailed with little reservation by economists. The new jobs "will generate solid income gains that will underpin consumption spending and bolster savings," said Robert D. Barr, deputy chief economist at the United States Chamber of Commerce. He said the April figures showed "the real muscle" in the expansion, not just a weather-related rebound.
Mickey D. Levy, chief financial economist for Nationsbank in New York, said the current economic situation resembled the early stages of a recovery. He suggested dating the recovery from mid-1993 -- when structural problems like a fragile banking system were finally overcome -- instead of the officially designated March 1991.
He predicted that the economy "will sail through the year with strong growth in employment -- but without inflation pressures."
Today's employment report also showed a 235,000 decline in the number of people working part time who wanted full-time work, reversing much of a March jump. And since January, the number of people who have lost their jobs has fallen while the ranks of re-entrants to the labor force and those who quit their last jobs have grown, as they typically do when the job market brightens.
The jobless rate for adult women, which has shown no clear trend recently, fell four-tenths of a point, to 5.6 percent, while the rate for adult men eased two-tenths of a point to the same level. The rate for teen-agers rose 2.1 points, to 19.9 percent.
Discouraged workers -- those who have given up job searches as probably fruitless -- totaled 502,000, while 7.3 million, or 6 percent of the employed, held two or more jobs.
Construction jobs climbed 64,000 in April, the second straight sharp gain, while health services added 34,000 jobs as hospitals stepped up hiring. More than half of a 146,000 gain in services was in business services, much of it in providing temporary help, a category accounting for one of every six new jobs in the last year.
Employment in the retail trade jumped 80,000, with restaurants and bars adding 54,000 and automobile dealers 14,000. Finance added 7,000 jobs and government added 19,000 as a decline in Federal employment -- down 109,000 from its March 1992 peak -- was more than made up by gains at the state and local levels.
Job growth as tallied by the department's survey of households was 301,000 last month, enough after absorbing an increase in the labor force to shrink the number of unemployed by 135,000, to 8,408,000, the report showed.
The index of aggregate hours, compiled from payroll reports, rose to 127.2 from 126.9 in March, suggesting that the Federal Reserve's industrial production report will show a modest increase when it is published on May 16. Pointing to future job gains was the fact that 58.3 percent of industries added workers last month, up from 53.8 percent in April 1993.
Average hourly and weekly earnings of private production workers each rose three-tenths of a percent in April, to $11.06 and $383.78, respectively. Over the year, hourly earnings are up 2.7 percent and weekly earnings are up 3.6 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Labor Picture in April" shows unemployment and employment statistics for April. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 51)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS EMPLOYMENT (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); WEATHER (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); STATISTICS (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); TRUCKING (55%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



142 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: U.N. COUNCIL VOTES TOUGHER EMBARGO ON HAITIAN TRADE

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, May 6

 BODY:
The Security Council voted unanimously today to impose a near-total trade embargo on Haiti to try to force its military rulers to permit the return of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power as President.
The sanctions imposed on Haiti were those long demanded by Father Aristide himself but rejected for months by the Clinton Administration out of concern that they would deepen the economic hardship of ordinary Haitians with no guarantee that the steps would persuade the military to change its position. 
 Haiti, which has one of the lowest living standards in the world, has been subject to a mandatory oil embargo since last fall, enforced by an international flotilla of warships, and a voluntary trade embargo by the United States and other Western Hemisphere countries.
As a result, electricity has been scarce, unemployment is at 70 percent and it is estimated that most of the country's factories and stores have been shut.
These conditions are expected to worsen under the newly enacted United Nations embargo, since Haiti would not be able to send its low-cost clothing, shoes or other goods for export anywhere.
The vote for sanctions today came after rising political pressure from Congressional supporters of Father Aristide, as well as from those dissatisfied with President Clinton's failure to reverse President Bush's policy of sending back Haitian refugees fleeing by boat.
The Administration signaled last week that it would change track and agree to more stringent measures on Haiti, and this week President Clinton and his aides have made a point of not ruling out possible military intervention to oust the junta from power.
Some members of the Administration have said in Washington that they are under no illusions that the new sanctions will achieve their goal. Despite the widespread hardship, the ruling elite of Haiti is said to have largely escaped the worst effects of the sanctions already in place.
The fuel embargo, for example, is being circumvented through imports from the Dominican Republic, which shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti. Smuggled fuel supplies have enabled the military rulers to keep up their own operations -- including drug trafficking, United States drug enforcement officials say.
The embargo has hampered the delivery of food and medicine to ordinary Haitians by relief agencies.
 
May 21 Deadline
 Today's 15-to-0 decision by the Security Council gives Haiti's rulers until midnight on May 21 to comply with a peace agreement negotiated last summer at Governors Island in New York, under which the military agreed to hand over power to Father Aristide or face a general trade cutoff. The only exceptions to the embargo are to be imports of food, medicine and certain supplies like books, newspapers and visiting journalists' equipment.
As a preliminary warning to Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras and the members of his military government, the Security Council ordered a ban by all member nations on granting entry to some 600 of Haiti's top military and police officers as well as to all participants in the coup that forced Father Aristide from office in 1991.
The ban has the force of law among the members of the United Nations.
The resolution today also "strongly urges" member nations to freeze these officers' personal assets, but at European insistence it does not oblige them to do so.
The resolution also immediately bars all private aircraft, though not scheduled airlines, from flying to or from Haiti, in a move aimed at depriving Haiti's rulers of the millions of dollars they are believed to be making from aerial drug smuggling.
"This is a step that we did not want to have to take and a step we should never have had even to consider," the American representative at the United Nations, Madeleine K. Albright, said today.
Calling sanctions "a blunt instrument," she told the Council that the Clinton Administration was "acutely conscious" that sanctions would aggravate the ordinary people's suffering, saying, "That is why the United States, and the international community, is also undertaking humanitarian assistance measures in Haiti on a massive scale."
But it is not clear what sort of assistance she had in mind. Relief agencies and foreign governments' relief programs remain active in Haiti, but many of their activities have been hampered by problems.
 
Iraqi and Yugoslav Embargos
 The near-total trade ban, if it goes into effect, will be similar to those the Security Council has imposed on Iraq as a result of its invasion of Kuwait and the rump Yugoslav federation of Serbia and Montenegro for stirring up civil war in Bosnia.
In each case the United Nations has been forced to organize a huge aid effort aimed at relieving the distress caused by the sanctions.
The trade ban also means that the Council will be extending to the whole world and rendering mandatory the voluntary embargo already decided on by the United States and the other members of the Organization of American States, which many companies have been able to circumvent.
Several speakers at today's Council meeting emphasized that the effectiveness of the threatened new embargo would depend on whether the Dominican Republic kept its pledge to enforce it effectively.
Some diplomats warned that unless today's new sanctions achieved their political goals relatively quickly, Father Aristide's position could become more difficult if Haitians, or Haitian political leaders, believed that he was not doing enough to reach a settlement with the military.
As President he already lacks a clear majority in Parliament, which was elected at the same time as he was. Parliamentary elections are due in October, and there is a fear that if these are held under a military government, they might be rigged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TRENDS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); REFUGEES (68%); SMUGGLING (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (60%); WRITERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



143 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Partial Deal Over Budget In Albany

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 6

 BODY:
State legislative leaders have reached broad tentative agreements on two major sticking points in a $33 billion state budget that is now five weeks late: how to cut business taxes and how to allocate aid to local schools.
The agreements, whose survival will depend on the lawmakers' reaching accords on several smaller but important issues, call for a relatively modest tax cut of at least $410 million this year. However, once the proposed reductions are fully phased in over three years, they would be worth well over $1 billion a year. 
 The largest piece of the tax cut package calls for phasing out one of the most onerous emblems of the state's recent fiscal problems: a 15 percent surcharge on corporate taxes that was instituted in 1990 during the recession. The corporate surcharge accounts for $900 million of the total $6.6 billion in business taxes that the state collects each year.
The reduction would affect most of the state's 71,000 corporations, whose business tax rate would fall to 9 percent from 10.35 percent in three years. For most corporations, the cut will translate into a tax savings of a few hundred dollars annually. But for corporate giants like I.B.M., with tax liabilities of $1 million and more, the reduction could save more than $100,000 a year.
Also under the agreement, the state's 5 percent portion of the 19.25 percent sales tax on hotel rooms renting for over $100 a night would be eliminated as of Sept. 1. Lobbyists for New York City's hotel industry have argued that the tax has caused the city to lose convention bookings to cities with lower taxes.
The agreement also calls for a tax credit for low-income families. Though details of the credit were still being worked out last night, Democratic legislative aides said it could be as much as 10 percent of an existing Federal tax credit in the 1994 tax year. It would then grow to as much as 20 percent of the Federal credit in the 1995 tax year.
Under that scenario, a family of four with an annual household income of $15,000 would receive a reduction in state taxes amounting to $182 for 1994 and $364 for 1995.
State aid to local schools would increase by about $400 million in the coming year to a total of about $9.5 billion. Legislative aides said the agreement would increase New York City's aid by about $220 million for its school year beginning in September, almost double what Gov. Mario M. Cuomo had proposed in January. "We would be doing well if that is the final number," said one New York City school official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
It was not clear tonight whether Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani would receive all of the $275 million in additional state aid he had sought to help close a projected $2.3 billion budget gap for the city's fiscal year that begins July 1. Although the leaders seemed inclined to give the city at least that much additional assistance, Democratic lawmakers have said they want some of the additional money to go to schools and not for closing the gap.
The lawmakers warned that the tentative pacts could collapse if the legislative leaders did not resolve several relatively inexpensive but politically significant issues. Those include a Republican proposal to fingerprint certain welfare recipients, and a Democratic plan to expand a health insurance program for the poor and to turn Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn from a two-year into a four-year college.
In Queens today, Mr. Cuomo said: "I think they've dealt with the big subjects -- aid to the City of New York and other local governments, Medicaid pickup, aid to education and tax cuts. "Now they're into a lot of nitty-gritty."
Publicly, the legislative leaders disclosed little about the negotiations other than to say that they were progressing well. This week marked the most intensive talks in weeks between the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, an Oyster Bay Republican, and the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat.
The talks on the budget for the fiscal year that began April 1 have repeatedly stalled over how to spend a projected surplus of $1.5 billion.
A final agreement between the leaders must be approved by Mr. Cuomo and then voted on by the full Legislature. Legislative aides said voting on budget bills would probably not begin until the middle of next week.
Though the Legislature has allocated money to keep the state government operating, the budget delay has caused the state to miss $950 million in payments to schools and local governments, including $575 million for New York City, State Comptroller H. Carl McCall said this week. Delayed payments have also forced some nonprofit agencies with state contracts to take bank loans to cover their payrolls.
 
Call for Fingerprinting
 Though many of the issues holding up a final accord do not involve much money, all have political implications that far outweigh their price tags.
For instance, the Senate Republicans have called for fingerprinting all recipients of home relief, a welfare program for single adults, as a means of preventing fraud. The Assembly Democrats contend that fingerprinting stigmatizes the poor, and they have fought to limit the proposal to a few counties.
The Assembly Democrats are also seeking to return Medgar Evers College, part of the City University system, to the four-year status that it lost during the fiscal crisis of 1976. CUNY officials and Democratic lawmakers in Brooklyn have sought the change for a decade, but Republican Senators have steadfastly opposed it.
Also under discussion between the two houses is a proposal to allow hospitals to increase the rates they charge insurers. One plan that has been endorsed by the Senate Republicans but has received only lukewarm support from the Assembly Democrats would give hospitals about $150 million in the coming year. It is not clear whether Mr. Cuomo will support any increase in hospital reimbursements.
The leaders seemed very close to an agreement on a plan under which the state would assume over the next two years a small fraction of Medicaid costs now borne by county governments. Local officials, including Mr. Giuliani, had asked the state to assume all their Medicaid costs by the year 2000, and the limited plan currently under discussion is likely to please few of them.
In addition to the corporate surcharge and the hotel tax, the tentative tax agreement calls for reducing or eliminating an array of other business taxes. Those include reducing the state's minimum tax from 5 percent to 3.5 percent in the coming year, granting tax credits to companies for operating losses and giving special tax benefits to companies that have large payrolls and land holdings in the state.
Democratic legislative aides said three of their proposals were also part of the tax cut agreement: a tax credit for businesses that hire new employees, a reduction in corporate taxes for companies with 35 or fewer shareholders and a 3-cent-per-gallon reduction in petroleum taxes for nonprofit corporations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BAY REPUBLICAN (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; CORPORATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); SALES TAX (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); LODGING (69%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (69%); FAMILY (68%); POOR POPULATION (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); LOBBYING (59%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



144 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

The Economy
 The economy generated 267,000 new jobs in April, in an unexpectedly vigorous performance, showing that it is more than regaining ground lost to harsh winter weather. The report jolted the bond and stock markets as interest rates rose amid new inflation fears. Government figures showed that the gain would have been 73,000 higher had it not been for a strike in the trucking industry. The nation's unemployment rate edged down one-tenth of a point, to 6.4 percent. [Page 1.] The jobless rate edged up slightly in New York State, even though it fell modestly in New York City and New Jersey. [51.]
 Alan S. Blinder sought to reassure financial markets that if he became the Federal Reserve's vice chairman, he would not squander the gains made in holding down inflation. [39.]
 Consumer credit shot up 11.1 percent in March, the biggest jump in three months. [49.]

Markets
 The bond market was jolted by fears of inflation and the Federal Reserve after the Government reported an unexpectedly large increase in jobs in April. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond soared to 7.54 percent, from 7.33 percent. [39.]
 Stock prices fell sharply as interest rates surged. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 26.47 points, to 3,669.50. [40.]
 Gold prices surged amid concerns that the Federal Reserve was not moving swiftly enough to head off inflation. [47.]
 The dollar tumbled against most currencies as selloffs in the bond and stock markets eroded confidence in the currency. [47.]

Companies
 Nomura America has begun discussions about a possible bid to get R. H. Macy out of bankruptcy. [39.]
 More accusations of false billing have been raised by employees of Rockwell International, angering company executives. [39.]
 Brown & Williamson Tobacco kept secret its research about the hazards of cigarettes, company documents show. [1.]
 The former head of Tenneco died of a brain tumor. [30.]
 Navigating cyberspace is the basis for a new company that hopes to profit by commercializing the Internet. [39.] Two lawyers formed a company to make ads pervasive on the Internet. [51.]
 I.B.M. sold its New York headquarters building to a joint venture run by Edward J. Minskoff and Odyssey Partners. [41.]
 Digital Equipment plans to cut at least 20,000 more employees in an effort to reduce costs and return to profitability. [41.]
 Southwest Airlines may overhaul how it sells tickets. [38.]
 Boatmen's Bancshares agreed to acquire National Mortgage for $160 million in stock. [41.]
 Microsoft's co-founders have invested $10 million in Darwin Molecular Technologies. [51.]

International
 Sydney, Australia, awarded a license for its first casino to an Atlantic City gambling company and an Australian developer, which made a bid of $275 million. [41.]
The Channel Tunnel opened between Britain and France. [6.]

Your Money
 Mutual fund buyers need to beware when stockbrokers promote funds with no sales charge. Usually, these funds have a level load, which means there are hidden fees that reduce returns. [37.]
 The markets' steep drop in March took a big toll on investor confidence, a national survey shows. [37.]
 The I.R.S. is cracking down on taxpayers who don't provide adequate substantiation of their tax deductions. [37.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); M (NYSE) (81%); RAI (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); LUV (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (81%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (53%); SIC2121 CIGARS (53%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (67%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); MACY'S INC (81%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); GOLD MARKETS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); TOBACCO MFG (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); GAMING (60%); TRUCKING (56%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



145 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Drop on Report Of Additional New Jobs

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Bracing for days for a blow from the Government's employment data, traders nonetheless flinched yesterday and sent stock prices plummeting when the Labor Department announced especially welcome news on job creation.
 To Wall Street professionals, the good news that the economy is producing more jobs than anticipated has the darker side of implying either future inflation or a brake on the economy as the Federal Reserve Board fights expected inflation with higher short-term interest rates. 
 Accordingly, some analysts expect the Fed to raise interest rates as early as Monday.
 Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average plunged early, falling as much as 53 points, and putting into effect "circuit breaker" rules designed to slow high-speed computer-guided trading.
 
Decline Cut in Half
 But traders say some small-scale computerized "buy" programs sliced the decline in half late in the day, putting the Dow at 3,669.50, down 26.47 points.
 Especially hard-hit were income stocks with high dividends like blue chips, local-telephone stocks and public utilities. Caterpillar dropped $4.375, to $108.125; Ameritech declined $1.375, to $38.125, and Pacific Gas and Electric fell 87.5 cents, to $23.875. But high-technology stocks also dropped: Microsoft fell $2.125, to $92.25.
The value of bonds plunged and so did the dollar. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond, which rises as traders bid bond prices down, hit 7.54 percent, an 18-month high. The dollar fell to 102.53 yen, down 0.37 yen.
 The price of gold soared, as traders who may have abandoned stocks, bonds and the dollar, bought gold. The price of gold, often an index of market nervousness about inflation, started soaring around noon. Spot gold futures specifying June delivery rose $9.80, to $384.50 an ounce.
 Kathleen M. Camilli, chief economist for Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc., an economic consultant, said the bond, equities and currency markets, rarely linked simultaneously, had started to track one another as trade talks between Japan and the United States began to sour in February. The currency traders' belief that the Clinton Administration would not defend the dollar, as an anti-Japan tactic, dovetailed with the declining stock and bond markets.
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 dropped 3.56 points, to 447.82. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index plunged 7.69 points, to 732.86.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index dropped 2.02 points, to 248.47, and declining stocks outnumbered gainers, 1,713 to 558, or 3 to 1. Volume on the Big Board was close to normal at 292 million shares, or 4 percent below this year's average of 304 million. The American Stock Exchange market value index dropped 1.97 points, to 439.73.
 The yield on the long bond shot straight up following the 8:30 A.M. release of the Labor Department's jobs report.
 The stock market impact was first felt in Britain as the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Share Index fell sharply only a few minutes after the release of the report.
 Then the Dow plunged nearly 37 points in the first 13 minutes of trading, seesawing up and down 10 or more points at a time during an anxious day. By 2:43 P.M. the New York Stock Exchange's circuit-breaker rules went into effect when the Dow fell more than 50 points. The rules slow computer-guided trading by allowing trades only when prices trend upward.
 Of the 30 stocks in the Dow industrials, 21 fell. Of the 500 stocks in the S & P 500, 369 dropped.
 The most active stock yesterday, at 5.9 million shares, was Intel on no discernible news; it rose 62.5 cents, to $59.6875.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); PCG (SWX) (55%); PCG (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE AT&T INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); PG&E CORP (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); LABOR DEPARTMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE LABOR DEPARTMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOLD; COMMODITIES EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); FUTURES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



146 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Employers May Get Reprieve In Reporting Health Coverage

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6

 BODY:
Bowing to complaints from thousands of businesses across the country, the White House today asked Congress to delay or do away with a 1993 law requiring employers to report information on the health insurance coverage of their employees.
Presidents Clinton and George Bush both asked Congress to impose the requirement, which took effect on Jan. 1. But it has caused major problems for employers, who say they must gather large amounts of data never collected before. 
 Sally Katzen, a senior official of the Office of Management and Budget, asked Congress to delay the reporting requirements until July 1995. By then, she said, they may not be needed. Other White House officials said they hoped Congress would simply repeal the reporting requirements.
 
Money-Saving Scheme
 The requirements were part of an elaborate scheme to save money for Medicare and Medicaid, the Federal programs for the elderly and the poor. These programs are not supposed to pay for health care when a person has private insurance to pay the bills. But the Government often has no way of knowing who has private insurance.
So Congress last year created the Medicare and Medicaid Coverage Data Bank. The law says that any employer with a group health plan must report the names and Social Security numbers of all people covered under the plan, regardless of whether they also have Medicaid or Medicare. Employers say that while they know their workers' names, they often do not know the names of spouses and children and do not want to invade employees' privacy.
 
'Data Bank Is Unworkable'
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, has denounced the data bank as a waste of time and money. "I am pleased that the Administration has finally come to agree with what I have argued for some time," Mr. Lieberman said at a hearing today. "This data bank is unworkable."
The hearing was held by a subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs. Mr. Lieberman is chairman of the subcommittee.
The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, agreed that the data bank was a bad idea. The 1993 law, it said, would require employers to report insurance data on 160 million people, of whom only 7 million were also enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid.
Leslie G. Aronovitz, a supervisor at the General Accounting Office, said the data bank would save little or no money but would create "an avalanche of unnecessary paperwork." The Government, she said, would have to collect information on 160 million people just to identify the estimated 3 million Medicare beneficiaries and the 4 million Medicaid recipients who have another source of coverage.
Business lobbyists rejoiced at the reversal by the White House. "This is great news," said Kent Knutson, a lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business, which represents more than 600,000 small businesses.
Kenneth D. Simonson, chief economist of the American Trucking Associations, said: "I am elated in a small way. It's great that the Administration has come out and said, 'We don't want to go ahead with the data bank in 1994.' But my elation is tempered by the fact that it will be difficult to get Congress to act. In the meantime, employers apparently need to collect this information for their employees and dependents."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; LABOR HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LOBBYING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); EMPLOYEE PRIVACY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MEDICAID (77%); BUDGETS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); AGING (68%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE JOE LIEBERMAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



147 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Fed Nominee Pledges He'll Fight Inflation

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6

 BODY:
President Clinton's nominee to become vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan S. Blinder, sought today to reassure financial markets worried about inflation that he would not squander the gains made in the last decade in holding down price increases.
 Mr. Blinder, who has a reputation for fretting less about inflation than most of the Fed's current members, expressed concern at his Senate confirmation hearing that while inflation was low now, the current economic expansion could push prices up again, unless growth slowed in the next two years. Mr. Blinder, an economist from Princeton University, is a member of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers. 
 He said that the American economy seemed to be approaching its maximum sustainable capacity for producing goods and services and warned that when maximum capacity was reached, further economic expansion would tend to feed inflation.
 The question, he said, is how long economic growth can continue at its current estimated annual rate of 3 percent without crossing that threshold. "Some people might say more than two years, but I wonder about that," Mr. Blinder said.
 He added that while a year or two ago there was little risk of inflation in stimulating economic growth, now there is about equal risk in accelerating growth or in slowing it. Accelerating growth could mean higher inflation while slowing growth could mean needlessly forgoing job-creating economic production, Mr. Blinder indicated.
 The Federal Reserve can try to keep economic growth from hitting capacity limits by raising short-term interest rates, a move that discourages bank lending to businesses and individuals. The Fed does not directly control long-term rates, but if these rise along with short-term rates, economic growth is further slowed.
 Mr. Blinder also said the Fed and the Treasury were close to an agreement on combining financial regulatory agencies, but he did not provide details.
 The Administration wants to create a single Federal Banking Commission by combining two offices of the Treasury Department with the bank regulatory functions of the Fed and of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Fed favors the consolidation of the two Treasury units, the Office of the Comptroller and the Office of Thrift Supervision, but it wants to take over the regulatory responsibilities of the F.D.I.C.
 Treasury and Fed officials declined to comment on Mr. Blinder's assertion. Even if an agreement is reached, there may not be enough time left before the November elections for Congress to act, Congressional officials said.
 Mr. Blinder was not asked to comment on specific past and future decisions to raise interest rates, and he did not do so. The Fed has raised the overnight rate for loans between banks three times this year, each time by a quarter of a percentage point. Long-term interest rates have risen even more, by 1.1 percentage points, something that Mr. Blinder said had surprised him.
 
Assessing Forecasts
 The Council of Economic Advisers is forecasting 3 percent growth this year and a slight slowing from that rate next year. But most private economic forecasters are predicting stronger growth in both years, suggesting that Mr. Blinder could be forced to vote for interest-rate increases if he goes to the Fed and continues to show the concern with economic-capacity limits that he expressed today.
 Yet some of Mr. Blinder's other comments suggested that he might still be less worried about inflation than his potential colleagues on the Fed were. He said the rise in long-term interest rates at least partly reflected the bidding up of loan rates as more businesses and individuals wanted investment money to take advantage of economic growth.
 Fed officials tend to attribute the rising rates more to investor worries about coming inflation. Part of the Fed's job is to fight such worries before they translate into rising prices, and that has been one reason for the Fed's repeated increases in interest rates this year.
 Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the head of the Council of Economic Advisers, expressed a point of view similar to Mr. Blinder's today at a White House news conference. "You have to think of the interest rate as a price," she said. "Here, it's the price of credit; it's the price of loans. And in a growing economy, in a robust economy with momentum, demand for credit does increase, and that should increase the price of credit somewhat without, in fact, slowing down growth."
 John P. Lipsky, the chief economist for Salomon Brothers, said that while Mr. Blinder may have sounded more worried about inflation than usual today, traders in financial markets were unlikely to be reassured. "There is market doubt and skepticism about his intentions," Mr. Lipsky said. "One morning's testimony is not going to establish his reputation."
 Mr. Blinder's only criticism of the Fed today was that it had not done enough to explain the reasons for its increases in interest rates. "It has not really been well articulated," he said.
 But Mr. Blinder endorsed the Fed's decision to announce each of the recent increases in short-term rates, which took place on Feb. 4, March 22 and April 18. The policy of announcing shifts in interest rates -- changes used to be made without comment -- should become permanent, he said, echoing a view espoused by several top Fed officials in the last two weeks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan S. Blinder, center, who has been nominated to be vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, talking with Senator Bill Bradley, right, before the Senate Banking Committee's confirmation hearing yesterday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (81%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (81%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; TREASURY DEPARTMENT COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; PRICES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CREDIT ; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ECONOMIC GROWTH (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ELECTIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); BANKING LAW (69%); CREDIT REGULATION (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (64%); 

PERSON: BLINDER, ALAN S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH ; BRADLEY, BILL (SEN) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



148 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Michael H. Walsh, Executive, Is Dead at 51

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

 BODY:
Michael H. Walsh, who struggled to complete the turnaround of Tenneco Inc., one of the nation's largest companies, as he battled a brain tumor, died yesterday. He was 51.
Mr. Walsh resigned in February as chairman and chief executive of the conglomerate based in Houston whose products range from natural gas to Monroe shock absorbers and J. I. Case farm and construction equipment. 
 Mr. Walsh's way of management epitomized the relentless quest for efficiencies and economies that has transformed countless American corporations over the last few years, although at the cost of millions of jobs. He took control of one company after another, slimming them down and shaping them up as if to remake them in his own lean, athletic image.
But between his career and those of other corporate chiefs, there arose a poignant difference: no regimen, no amount of determination could overcome the effects of the cancer that struck him just as he was emerging as one of the nation's most prominent younger executives and as his company showed signs of responding to his treatment.
 
Open About His Disease
 While other executives slowed by disease have tried to hide or play down their conditions, Mr. Walsh was so intent on remaining the visible leader of his company that the turns in his condition became immediately evident. His hair loss reminded those around him of the rigors of his radiation treatment and chemotherapy, and he often discussed his disease with his aides or the press.
"Human beings manage their way through these things," he said in one magazine cover article last year on his battle. "It's about 90 percent discipline and sweat."
One fall day in 1992, Mr. Walsh noticed his left foot dragging in the dirt as he followed a jogging trail near his Houston home. By January, 1993, tests confirmed the cancer and he made his disease public.
Mr. Walsh continued working out with weights and a stationary bicycle even during his treatment. He claimed victory over the cancer last November, and his doctors called a Jan. 29 operation to remove dead tissue a success.
When Mr. Walsh suddenly gave up his reign at Tenneco on Feb. 23, his doctor, Kenneth D. Wells, cited the weakening effects of his treatment. The doctor said yesterday that his cancer had in fact recurred, and attributed his death to its complications.
Dana G. Mead, who succeeded Mr. Walsh as Tenneco chief executive, said that Mr. Walsh's leadership set an example for those around him. "Mike's legacy is our shared inspiration to fight on and never settle for second best," Mr. Mead said in a statement today.
Mr. Walsh was a leading corporate supporter of President Clinton, working for his election and then campaigning for his economic plans.
In a statement issued by the White House, President Clinton said: "Hillary and I were deeply saddened to hear of the death of our good friend Mike Walsh. His friendship and advice will be sorely missed. Our prayers and sympathies are with his family during this difficult time."
Mr. Walsh, educated in the law, did not break into corporate management until he was 38. For the rest of his career, he called himself "a recovering lawyer."
Michael Harries Walsh was born on July 8, 1942, in Binghamton, N.Y., but named Portland, Ore., where his family soon moved, as his hometown. His father, Thomas Walsh, was a manager of movie theaters.
In Portland, Mr. Walsh became an all-state running back, gaining a football scholarship to Stanford University. Several shoulder separations forced him to give up the sport. His father died of colon cancer when Mr. Walsh was a junior.
 
A White House Fellow
 After graduating with an economics degree in 1964, Mr. Walsh was named to the first class of White House Fellows in 1965. There, he met Joan Royter, who was an assistant dean of foreign students at American University. They married in 1967.
From Washington, Mr. Walsh went to Yale Law School, becoming a public defender in San Diego after he graduated in 1969. He joined with John Gardner there to help found Common Cause, a citizens' lobby.
President Jimmy Carter named him United States Attorney for the Southern District of California in 1977. Three years later, he was recruited by the Cummins Engine Company of Columbus, Ind., as a vice president in its international manufacturing operations. In four years, he was an executive vice president and a director.
The Union Pacific Railroad Company of Omaha hired him away as its chairman and chief executive in 1986. Analysts gave him credit for cutting costs, gaining market share and improving profits there. "He had a major impact," said Drew Lewis, the chairman and chief executive of Union Pacific's parent company and a former Transportation Secretary. "He was able to pull people together and get things done."
The Tenneco board initially approached him about running its J. I. Case division but Mr. Walsh refused. Instead, the board hired him to manage Tenneco. Thomas J. Neff of the Spencer Stuart executive search firm said his recruitment of Mr. Walsh was his proudest achievement.
 
Demanding on Goals
 At Tenneco, Mr. Walsh confronted an unwieldy group of businesses with a blunt, immediate insistence on meeting the goals he set. Within weeks he made plans to eliminate 6,000 jobs, halve the dividend and shut down several Case plants, whose high costs and weak sales were leading reasons for the company's $732 million loss in 1991. In all, he eliminated 14,000 of the company's 89,000 jobs, or almost 16 percent.
Huge write-offs for cutbacks and layoffs increased Tenneco's loss to $1.3 billion in 1992, but the company earned $426 million in 1993. The stock, which reached a low of $27.375 a share in December 1991, closed today on the New York Stock Exchange at $47 a share, down $1.375.
Mr. Walsh died at the Institute for Rehabilitation and Research in Houston. Funeral arrangements are private.
Besides his wife, Mr. Walsh is survived by two daughters, Kimberly, a student at Stanford University School of Law, and Jennifer, a student at Texas Christian University at Fort Worth; a son, Jeffrey, a student at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.; his mother, Elizabeth Walsh; two brothers, Robert and Thomas, and a sister, Nora Souther, all of Portland, Ore.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael H. Walsh (F. Carter Smith, 1992)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: TEN (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: TENNECO INC TENNECO INC (94%); WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TENNECO INC WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CANCER (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%); WEIGHTLIFTING (69%); HAIR LOSS (65%); 

PERSON: WALSH, MICHAEL H; MYERSON, ALLEN R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



149 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Selloffs in Stocks and Bonds Push Dollar Lower as Well

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar tumbled against most leading currencies yesterday as selloffs in the bond and stock markets eroded confidence in the currency.
 Bonds, stocks and the dollar fell after the Federal Reserve failed to raise interest rates in response to a Government report that showed the American economy added a larger-than-expected 267,000 jobs in April, raising concern about inflation. 
 Higher interest rates will cool inflationary pressures and make dollar-denominated deposits more attractive to investors.
 "The dollar's fate is tied to the bond market," said Lynn Tierney, a vice president at Shawmut Bank of Boston. "Traders think investors are bailing out of U.S. assets."
 In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6630 German marks, down from 1.6678 marks on Thursday. It had risen as high as 1.6745 marks just after the employment report was released yesterday morning. The dollar also fell to 102.53 Japanese yen, from 102.90 yen on Thursday.
 The Treasury's 30-year bond fell more than two points, pushing the yield to 7.54 percent from 7.33 percent. And the Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 53 points before closing down 26.47 at 3,669.50.
 "The bond market is getting hammered and the dollar is following it," said Belal Khan, chief dealer at the Bank of Tokyo. "It doesn't look too good."
 Concerns that the world's biggest central banks might jump into the market again to buy dollars kept the American currency from falling further, traders said. The Fed and more than a dozen other central banks bought dollars on Wednesday in an attempt to stem the currency's slide.
 "People are wary about crushing the dollar for fear of central bank intervention," said Gary Sakamoto, vice president of foreign exchange at National Westminster Bank. "Still, there are a lot of people who think it's going lower."
 Others say the dollar should be trading at higher levels, especially since American employment is so strong. "We've added one million jobs in the last three months," said Marc Cohen, managing director of C-Wave Capital Management, a currency trading firm in Fort Lee, N.J. "A selloff in the dollar isn't logical."
 In other trading, the British pound slipped to $1.4935 in New York, from $1.4989 on Thursday. The dollar fell to 5.6980 French francs from 5.7130 francs and weakened to 1.4145 Swiss francs from 1.4160 francs. The dollar fell to 1,597 Italian lire from 1,607 lire. The Canadian dollar rose to 72.43 United States cents from 72.28 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (71%); BAC (LSE) (71%); 8648 (TSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (71%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (54%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (54%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INFLATION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BRITISH POUND (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



150 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing by Consumers Jumped in March

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6

 BODY:
Consumer credit shot up 11.1 percent at an annual rate in March, the Federal Reserve said today. It was the biggest jump in three months as shoppers escaped the clutches of winter and enjoyed an early Easter.
 The Fed said installment loans totaled a seasonally adjusted $7.4 billion, up from a revised $4 billion in February and $6.4 billion in January, when analysts said severe weather kept many shoppers from venturing into shopping malls and auto dealerships. The February total was originally estimated to be $3.5 billion. 
 It was the 10th straight increase and the highest level since credit totaled $7.5 billion in December.
 Many analysts contend that the March increase resulted from better weather and an early Easter, which caused consumers to make purchases in March that normally would have been made in April.
 
Less Spending Is Seen
 But many analysts also believe that spending, after rebounding from the effects of a harsh winter, will moderate. Consumer spending represents about two-thirds of the nation's economic activity. Consumer credit comprises all household debt not secured by real estate. It does not include home equity loans or mortgages.
 About half of the increase was in the so-called other category of consumer credit, including loans for mobile homes, education, boats, trailers and vacations.
 This category surged at a 19.1 percent annual rate, to $3.7 billion, after a barely perceptible gain of four-tenths of a percent a month earlier.
 Auto loans jumped 10.5 percent at an annual rate, to $2.5 billion, even stronger than the 6 percent advance in February. The auto industry has been one of the economy's most robust elements in recent months.
 The revolving category, which includes credit cards, was up at a 5.3 percent annual rate, to $1.3 billion, just half of the 10.6 percent increase of the previous month.
 Over all, consumer credit totaled a record $807.9 billion at the end of March, up from $800.4 billion in February.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Borrowing." Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding: in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR CONSUMER LENDING (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); RETAILERS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WEATHER (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); MOBILE HOMES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



151 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: New York State's Rate Inches Higher in Month

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The unemployment rate edged up slightly in New York State in April, the Labor Department reported yesterday, even though it fell modestly in New York City and New Jersey, as well as nationwide.
 The region's economic recovery still seems to be in the "slow lane," the department said. 
 Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner for the department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, said, "I think what we're seeing here is an economy that hasn't moved up to cruising speed yet." The unemployment rate for New York State rose to 8.2 percent in April from 8.1 percent in March, the department said.
 
California Rate Is Highest
 New York has the second-highest unemployment rate of the big industrial states, trailing only California at 9.6 percent. Indeed, New York has lost 97,000 jobs in the last 12 months.
 New York City's unemployment rate slipped to 9.5 percent in April from 10.3 percent in March.
 And New Jersey's unemployment rate fell to 7.2 percent in April from 7.9 percent in March. Still, the April rate is about the same as the February rate of 7.3 percent.
 Mr. Ehrenhalt attributed New Jersey's lower rate mainly to fewer people looking for jobs.
 Nationwide, April's unemployment rate inched down to 6.4 percent from 6.5 percent in March.
 "It's still pretty tough getting a job out there," Mr. Ehrenhalt said. "People gave up looking during Easter and the spring holidays."
 He said he thought "it still won't be easy street" for job seekers this summer. But he added that it would be a "more active and promising market" than it was last summer.
 In neighboring Pennsylvania, the jobless rate dropped in April to 6.6 percent from 6.8 percent in March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; CALIFORNIA; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); STATISTICS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



152 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Fear of Inflation Gives Gold Best Day's Gain in 8 Months

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Gold posted its largest one-day gain since September yesterday amid concerns that the Federal Reserve was not moving swiftly enough to head off inflation.
 The Fed did not raise interest rates yesterday even though the Labor Department's employment report showed that businesses hired more workers than expected in April, providing fresh evidence that the economy is expanding and raising the prospect of renewed inflation. 
 Disappointment over the Fed's inaction sent many investors flocking to precious metals, historically a hedge against inflation.
 "The whole market is expecting a rate increase and the Fed seems to be resisting it," said Kevin McClean, an analyst with Cavelti Capital Management in Toronto. The Fed probably will raise rates next week, he said, and "gold is going to calm down."
 Gold for June delivery, the most active futures contract, soared $9.80 to close at $384.50 an ounce on the Commodity Exchange, after trading as high as $387 an ounce. July silver jumped 32.8 cents, to $5.475 an ounce, at the Comex. And July platinum gained $9.60, to $399 an ounce, at the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 
Doubt About Fed Action
 Some traders questioned whether the Fed would raise interest rates soon, since the Clinton Administration has said rates should be kept low to help revive the economy.
 "They're going to let inflation heat up a little while," said George Hall, executive director of the Monex Deposit Company in Newport Beach, Calif.
 On other commodity markets, crude oil prices soared to a six-month high amid concerns about supplies from the North Sea and fighting in Yemen. June crude rose 41 cents, to $17.70 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, its highest price since last October.
 As many as five tanker cargoes of North Sea crude have been canceled since last week's evacuation of the Piper Bravo platform. That would mean the loss of about 2.5 million barrels of crude, more than a full day's production from the British portion of the North Sea. And civil war shook Yemen, which produces as much as 350,000 barrels a day of crude.
 "The Yemen news got prices going yesterday," said Tom Bentz, energy services director at Quantum Financial. "With the tightness in the North Sea, that's all you need."
 Among other energy contracts, June unleaded gasoline gained 0.37, cent, to 50.10 cents a gallon, and June heating oil surged 0.79 cent, to 48.10 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (66%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (66%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: YEMEN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH SEA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MONEX DEPOSIT CO (66%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH SEA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES FUTURES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); HEATING OIL (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); GASOLINE (69%); MARINE TANKERS (69%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



153 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Check-Cashing Outlets Show Savings Falloff

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You miss the major reason for the rapid growth of check-cashing outlets in your April 18 news article about a report on the phenomenon in New York City released by the Public Advocate, Mark Green. 
 As I argue in "Fringe Banking: Check-Cashing Outlets, Pawnshops and the Poor" (to be published by the Russell Sage Foundation), the boom in check-cashing outlets has been national and began in the late 1970's. The major impetus was an increase in the percentage of low-income and moderate-income households with no, or very modest, savings. What you emphasize -- bank branch closings in low-income neighborhoods -- has played a very modest role.
Since the late 1970's, the inflation-adjusted earnings of lower-income households has fallen, reducing their ability to maintain savings. Many of these families closed their bank accounts because they found themselves living from one paycheck to the next and did not need bank savings services. Since banks provide payment services to depositors, these households commonly turned to check-cashing outlets to cash paychecks and purchase money orders.
Other lower income families managed to maintain bank accounts, but with very low balances at the end of a pay period. Since banks generally only cash checks for depositors with sufficient funds to cover the checks, these households would have to deposit their paychecks and wait three to five days to have access to the money. Many cannot or do not want to wait, and cash their paychecks at local outlets.
In some neighborhoods, closings of bank branches undoubtedly contributed to the demand for check-cashing services, but check-cashing outlets would continue to flourish in New York City even if a bank were open on every block. This is evident because many check outlets operate in close proximity to banks.
In addition, a recent national survey by the Federal Reserve System found that less than one percent of lower-income households (incomes below $12,000 in 1991 prices) without deposit accounts attributed their status to the inconvenient site of banks; 35 percent reported that they did not have enough money to justify a deposit account.
Finally, the percentage of lower-income households without deposit accounts increased markedly between 1977 and 1989, and statistical models indicate that almost all of this increase can be explained by changes in the socioeconomic characteristics of households.
 
JOHN P. CASKEY
Associate Professor of Economics
Swarthmore College
Swarthmore, Pa., April 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANK BRANCHES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); STATISTICAL METHOD (70%); CLOSINGS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: CASKEY, JOHN P MARK GREEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



154 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Review/Pop;
Exciting, but With Control

BYLINE: By PETER WATROUS 

 BODY:
Junko Onishi opened her first set at the Village Vanguard (178 Seventh Avenue South, at Perry Street, Greenwich Village) on Tuesday night, where she is to be through tomorrow, with "Eulogia," a piece that hurtles forward with a walking-bass introduction. She joined in on piano, slapping notes in the lower register. Herlin Riley, the drummer, started a persistent tapping on his cymbals. Ms. Onishi and the bassist, Reginald Veal, played a bass line in unison, and the group was off. The group spent the rest of the set making smart and interactive music, exciting yet controlled by Ms. Onishi's careful arranging.
It's hard not to regard this young pianist with a bit of suspicion at first. Because of the economic power the Japanese jazz establishment wields, American record companies and clubs are often on the receiving end of campaigns pushing Japanese musicians of questionable talent. But Ms. Onishi is the real thing. And she swings. 
 She likes to rumble around in the lower register of the piano, a modern-day Eddie Costa. But Ms. Onishi clearly knows the jazz tradition, and she regularly let blues ideas ripple through her improvisations and allowed riffs to set up structural guide points in her solos. Ms. Onishi, whose new album is "Cruisin' " (Blue Note), spent six years studying and performing with Joe Henderson, Gary Thomas, the Mingus Big Band and others, and it shows.
Her rhythm section is among the finest working in jazz, and during the set this band put on a show, navigating Ms. Onishi's tricky arrangements and responding to all of her suggestions and feints.
 PETER WATROUS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); RECORD RELEASES (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, JUNKO; WATROUS, PETER JOE HENDERSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



155 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Check-Cashing Outlets Show Savings Falloff;
When Banks Withdraw

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re your April 18 article on check cashers: A check-cashing service provides only part of the service of a bank, and the neglected services they do not offer have widespread economic and social ramifications, which deserve attention.
First, banks have traditionally provided a means by which poor people could accumulate the capital to climb into the middle class, by building personal wealth, providing in advance for children's educations, amassing money for the purchase and repair of houses or eventually bankrolling savings into business investment. 
 While the immigrants from some cultures, notably Asians and some Caribbeans, have developed other means of building and sharing capital, others have not. As a result, the abilities of some cultures to attain middle-class status outrange others, a disparity that breaks forth into violent disruption in cases like the Korean foodstore boycott of recent years.
Second, check cashers don't offer mortgages or small business loans. Although some regulations require large banks to demonstrate social conscience by investing in poor communities, such loans from absentee banks do not come close to the lending role so visible in immigrant communities early in this century.
Huge banks operating from Manhattan-based skyscrapers have turned finance into a mystique, penetrable only by the few neighborhood people with savvy and education. One need only remember "Mama's Bank Account" to contrast the role of banks for earlier immigrants with their perceived role today: unlike Mama's children, entire generations of New Yorkers are growing up without the faintest notion of what it means to save for the future.
The observation of Public Advocate Mark Green that we have a "segregated economy" is only part of the story. The segregated economy leads to economic isolation and segregation of all sorts. It is high time that those who regulate banks -- allowing them to pick and choose both sites and terms of operation -- ought to extend the arrangement to some quid pro quo that returns low-cost, accessible banking to every corner of our city.
 
STEPHEN E. PHILLIPS
Brooklyn, April 25, 1994

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS CHECK CASHING SERVICES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); 

PERSON: PHILLIPS, STEPHEN E MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



156 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
I.B.M. Sells Its Building In New York

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
I.B.M. sold its 43-story New York headquarters building yesterday to a joint venture run by the developer Edward J. Minskoff and Odyssey Partners, a New York investment group.
 Neither side would divulge the selling price for the million-square-foot building at 590 Madison Avenue, at 57th Street. But people close to the deal say that once the costs of customizing space for new tenants are included the investors will probably have spent close to $320 a square foot, or $320 million. 
 The International Business Machines Corporation will continue to occupy about 300,000 square feet at the building's base, as a tenant. The new owners will seek additional tenants.
 I.B.M., which commissioned the architect Edward Laraby Barnes to design the midtown tower in the late 1970's, moved into it in 1981 and has been the only occupant. Over the last year, real estate brokers have speculated that I.B.M., which has been shrinking its work force, would seek to sublet much of its space. Indeed, at one point I.B.M. had planned to start marketing the space last fall. Because the real estate market was still fairly depressed, the chance of finding a buyer for the building seemed slim.
 
Market Turning Up
 But the market has turned up appreciably in the last few months and investors are trickling back in. The British developer Howard Ronson has announced plans for a new office building at 383 Madison Avenue, for example. And Toys "R" Us and the developer Bruce Eichner are putting up a mixed-use retailing and residential condominium at 80th Street and Third Avenue.
 Moreover, the recovering economy has meant a dearth of large blocks of space in prime Manhattan buildings. Real estate executives say Mr. Minskoff should not have much trouble leasing out the I.B.M. building's 23,000- and 24,000-square-foot floors.
 I.B.M.'s sale of its building runs counter to a recent trend in Manhattan, in which corporations have been buying buildings for their own use. For example, in recent years, Morgan Stanley bought 1585 Broadway, Bertelsmann bought 1540 Broadway and Sony bought the AT&T building.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (92%); IBM (NYSE) (92%); IBM (LSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (54%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); ODYSSEY PARTNERS INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (92%); TOYS 'R' US INC (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); ODYSSEY PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); TRENDS (70%); LABOR FORCE (67%); 

PERSON: MINSKOFF, EDWARD; DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H EDWARD J MINSKOFF (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



157 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 7, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
A Survey Shows Toll On Market Confidence

BYLINE: By Kathryn Jones 

 BODY:
WHEN the financial markets nose-dived earlier this year, novice investors got their first real taste of volatility.
Some market doomsayers had long predicted such a move would cause inexperienced investors -- who had plowed billions of dollars into stock and bond mutual funds in recent years -- to dump their holdings in a wholesale dash for cover. Small investors, it turns out, did not liquidate their portfolios. 
 But a national survey shows that the market's steep drop in March took a real toll on investor confidence. Until confidence returns, it may be hard for the stock market to mount a convincing rally, since much of the steam behind last year's growth came from a steady flow of new money by small investors.
The American Capital Index of Investor Intentions, a monthly indication of investor sentiment, dropped more than 15 percent in its latest report, which is based on a survey of 1,000 Americans from April 15 to April 27. The index is sponsored by American Capital Management and Research of Houston, managers of $17 billion in mutual fund assets. It is compiled from responses by consumers to questions about how investments will do over the next two to three months and what they intend to do with their money in that time.
The May index dropped to 232 from 275 a month earlier. The index, which was begun last November, peaked in February at 292.
Curiously, investors persisted in their overall negative view even though the markets had regained some lost ground at the time of the last survey and consumer confidence jumped to its highest level in almost four years in April.
"Because of fluctuations in the markets in recent months, the public is cautious about the overall prospects for investing," said Donald A. McMullen, president of American Capital. "But knowledgeable investors appear to feel that this is merely a correction in a bull market -- not the start of a bear market."
Knowledgeable investors were defined as respondents who rated their investing acumen at 5 or higher on a 7-point scale and who owned stocks, bonds or mutual funds. This group gained confidence in the latest poll, moving in the opposite direction of the larger sample.
Although the sample is relatively small, the index is one of the few quantitative attempts to gauge investor sentiment, and not just flows of money. It also provides some interesting glimpses of investor psychology and of short-term investing goals.
American Capital Management began the index to "take the short-term pulse of investors," said Shelia Horn, the firm's senior vice president of marketing. William Guild of Delta Strategies in Austin, Tex., designed the survey and conducts it using a computerized program to select telephone numbers at random.
Asked how they would invest $10,000, almost a third of the survey's respondents chose savings accounts, including C.D.'s and money market accounts, traditional harbors when financial markets are unpredictable. The percentage of people who said they would invest the money in mutual funds remained virtually unchanged from the previous month at about 23 percent.
Stocks were the big loser in the survey, with only 8.7 percent of the respondents saying that they would put money there, down from 10.5 percent the previous month.
Less than half the respondents rated the next two to three months as a "good" time to buy stocks and bonds. About one in five said now was the wrong time to invest.
Despite the pessimism, people are not planning to raid their savings or investments, the survey found. Asked what they would do in the next 60 to 90 days, 57 percent of the people said they would put money into savings or other investments, while 24.2 percent said they would take their money out. These numbers may reflect increased confidence among individuals about their ability to make money and save it as the economy strengthens, rather than confidence in the financial markets.
Some financial advisers said they expected investor pessimism to be fleeting. "I would agree that in the short term, many people have been scared, but I don't see that as a permanent conclusion," said Harold Evensky, an investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla.
Donna Dorie, 47, president of an investment club in Dallas, said she and other members were not overly concerned about the market's ups and downs. "We just see it as an adjustment," Ms. Dorie said. "We're just watching it."
She added that the group remained confident about the prospects for its holdings, including Southwest Airlines, Snapple, Home Depot and GTE, and it recently expanded into international mutual funds.
Mr. Evensky said the survey of investor sentiment reinforced his view that people like Ms. Dorie did not frighten easily. "More people consider themselves knowledgeable," he said. "Short market spurts generally are not scaring those investors."
For proof, look to American Capital's question about what Americans will do with their mutual funds in the next 60 to 90 days. More than 18 percent said they would add money, an increase of two percentage points from the previous month. This could indicate a growing belief that the market has bottomed, and it is a good time to buy. But the latest reading is also noticeably higher than in November, when 13.3 percent said they would add to mutual funds. The habit of investing in bad times as well as good may be gaining strength.

GRAPHIC: Graph: 'Uncertain Times," Investor confidence on a scale of 0 to 600, with 600 the most eager to invest in stocks and bonds, from a survey of 1,000 people. Nov.-May 1994. Source: American Capital Index of Investor Intentions. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INVESCO INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); 

PERSON: JONES, KATHRYN DONNA DORIE (66%); HAROLD EVENSKY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994



158 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3044 words

HEADLINE: "I wonder what's on the PC tonight."

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
TO know Dana Law is to know that the future of television may be a lot gloomier than powerful cable-industry figures like John Malone and Gerald Levin have been saying. And that the future of the personal computer industry may be a lot brighter.
Mr. Law, 40, who makes his living as a magician and a psychic, spends a lot of time in front of the tube in his house in El Cajon, near San Diego. He gets the latest news and weather, sends and receives electronic mail, shops and checks travel guides to find out where to eat out. 
 But Mr. Law's tube is not a television. It's a computer, hooked to the local cable system. "It runs like the wind now," he said. "It's amazing what's available. And I'm getting sound and pictures that I wasn't getting before."
A few years ago Mr. Law might have seemed unusual. Now, however, there are millions of Americans like him, and the number is growing fast. They are people who can operate their personal computer as effortlessly as they can drive a car, who are as comfortable with a computer as with a television set. And they are people who would rather spend their time in front of a PC than a TV.
Such people are giving pause to the big-name companies in a variety of industries that have gambled with much fanfare that it is the television, not the personal computer, that will be the portal to the many "interactive" services already here or on the horizon. Among those services are home shopping, video games that can be played with someone elsewhere, electronic mail, video conferencing, and news and information retrieval.
These companies, including Time Warner, Tele-Communications Inc., AT&T, Viacom, US West and Bell Atlantic, have invested a lot of money and credibility in dozens of field tests of interactive television in places like Queens, N.Y., Orlando, Fla., and Alexandria, Va. Now, almost overnight, they are realizing that the personal computer may be the place to be.
"For interactive applications the personal computer is going to win," said Nicholas Negroponte, director of the Media Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which receives financing from both the personal-computer and television industries.
The argument of the companies betting on television as the best way into the American home is simple: Almost everyone has a TV, and almost everyone is far more comfortable using a TV than a PC. Sounds like the argument buggy makers made after the Model T was introduced 85 years ago.
But just as improvements on the automobile made it far more appealing and affordable, advances on the personal computer are making it much easier to operate, much more useful and much less expensive. For example, the newest generation of personal computers have chips powerful enough to run video with the resolution and lack of jerkiness of a television picture.
So ubiquitous and familiar will the personal computer become, particularly among younger Americans, that it will soon be the most indispensable tool in the information age, says the economist George Gilder. As a result, many communications, computer and entertainment companies are reversing course and scrambling to invest in interactive services that can be used on the personal computer instead of -- or at least as well as -- on the television.
For example, Tele-Communications, the largest cable operator, has joined with Microsoft, the largest software company, to test software that allows a personal computer access to data bases over TCI's cable network.
Viacom, the cable and entertainment giant, is developing multimedia games and educational programs that will blend the interactivity of a CD-ROM with the format of an MTV or a Nickelodeon. For example, personal computer users might someday tap into the cable network to receive video games on a pay-per-use or subscription basis, or tune in to interactive television programs that permit the viewer to take the role of one character and change the outcome as the show progresses. And in its Castro Valley, Calif., trial of interactive services, Viacom now plans to experiment not only with television but also with the personal computer.
These companies are joining many computer, software and information companies that have already recognized the potential of the PC for interactive services and are rushing to capitalize on it. Later this year Microsoft plans to release a new version of its Windows operating system that will simplify the process of connecting personal computers to cable and telephone networks. The Intel Corporation plans to introduce next month a modem that hooks a personal computer to cable-television lines and allows PC users to receive information from the cable network more than 2,000 times faster than through a conventional telephone modem. And in San Diego, Prodigy, the nation's largest on-line computer service, has tapped into the high-capacity local cable lines, allowing it to offer customers like Mr. Law not only text but sound, pictures and, soon, video.
Now that personal computers can offer video of television quality, many software publishers expect to announce entertainment and educational products to be delivered over cable networks and phone lines to PC users. Microsoft is developing interactive programs including ones that allow home banking and the gathering of sports statistics. And early next year, Prodigy, in cooperation with the ESPN cable network, plans to offer its users video clips of sports highlights.
For investors, the implications are obvious. Personal computer makers like I.B.M., Compaq and Apple all stand to gain, as do chip makers like Intel and Motorola and software companies offering educational or entertainment programs, like Microsoft, Broderbund and Electronic Arts. Companies with a big stake in developing the devices for interactive television, including Silicon Graphics, General Instrument and Scientific-Atlanta, stand to lose. And other companies that committed money and time to experiments in interactive television stand to be embarrassed.
The advantage enjoyed by the personal computer over the television may not last beyond the next few years, however. There is much debate about what the "home information appliance" will look like a decade from now. One view -- call it the Ronco Dicer Slicer Approach -- is that a single device combining all the attributes of a computer and a television will emerge. It will have a high-definition screen and a controller that is a cross between a remote-control wand and a keyboard.
But there is an increasingly accepted school of thought that there will someday be not one but many devices in the home. Like kitchen appliances today, information appliances a decade from now will each have a different function. The personal computer and the TV will both be so affordable that the average family will think nothing of having one or more of each, as well as other information appliances, like smart telephones.
But for now, at least, it is the personal computer, not the television, that is becoming an increasingly powerful magnet.
 
The TV Vision
 The vision of interactive television, as espoused by executives like Mr. Malone of Tele-Communications Inc. and Mr. Levin of Time Warner, is of a futuristic version of the cable-converter box atop the family TV. It would bring into the home an avalanche of new services -- any movie, any time; video games that would allow many players in many places; home shopping and banking; electronic mail and information services. It would be easily operated even by the technically unsophisticated by means of a simple wand that could act like an existing remote-control device or like a personal- computer mouse.
Everything from the box atop the TV, known as a set-top controller, to giant computers that would distribute the services over the cable network has had to be designed, and is now being tested in various communities.
Among the most passionate defenders of this vision are executives at Time Warner, which has tested such a system in Queens and plans another test for Orlando, Fla., starting this fall, and at Silicon Graphics Inc., which is designing the set-top controller for Time Warner. They argue that entertainment viewed on the television, not other services offered on the personal computer, will be the driving force that brings interactivity to most Americans.
"How many American homes even have a den for the personal computer?" said Ed McCracken, chairman of Silicon Graphics. "At a personal computer you sit there and do things and the computer reacts. In the entertainment world the television does things and you react to it. This is going to be about entertainment."
 
The PC Vision
 But now this vision is being challenged by the growing realization that desktop computers and their networks are no longer the realm of scientists and hobbyists. More than 5 million people in this country will be subscribing to commercial on-line services by the end of the year, up from 3.9 million last year, according to Jupiter Communications, a New York market-research firm.
The Internet, the network that connects on-line services as well as students, scientists and Government employees, is growing even more quickly, and now counts 20 million computers worldwide -- roughly the number of homes viewing last week's most popular TV show, "Seinfeld."
Executives at Intel point out that almost 30 percent of the nation's homes already have personal computers, a figure that will rise to well above 50 percent by the end of the decade. And 52 percent of the homes with incomes between $50,000 and $100,000 a year have PC's, as well as 65 percent of homes above $100,000, according to Link Resources, a market-research firm in New York.
Even computer industry executives say they have been surprised by how rapidly the personal computer is being adopted in the home. "We in the computer industry thought our business was in corporations," said Avram Miller, vice president for business development at Intel. He said that last year 45 percent of the personal computers with Intel chips were shipped to homes rather than businesses and that revenue from the sale of personal computers surpassed that from color televisions in the United States.
Also favoring the personal computer is the advantage it currently enjoys over the television in what it can offer. Most of the services envisioned for interactive television, like home shopping and information retrieval, are already available over the personal computer from on-line services like Prodigy, Compuserve and America On-Line. And they are becoming easier to use, thanks to the addition of point-and-click controllers and improvements in on-screen graphics.
The computer has other advantages, too. It has a display screen that offers higher resolution than the television screen, which has been locked into the same resolution for more than five decades and is unlikely to change before the end of the century. This means that the personal computer can produce higher-quality video.
Also, the computer is easier to read on than a television. People are generally about 18 inches from their computer screens, as opposed to 9 feet from a TV. Many interactive services require a lot of reading.
Those differences mean that, while the television holds the advantage for watching programs and movies as a family, the personal computer is better for just about everything else.
 
The Price Factor
 Interactive television may have another Achilles heel -- cost. In its trial in Orlando, Time Warner will use a set-top box that costs the company $5,000 apiece. For a similar trial in Castro Valley scheduled by Viacom, AT&T's Bell Laboratories has developed a box that will cost $4,000 apiece.
By contrast, the main cost of connecting a personal computer to the local cable or phone system is a special modem. Companies including Zenith that sell this device are charging about $400. But that price will soon come down to around $100, about the cost of a conventional modem, said Scott Kurnit, an executive vice president at Prodigy.
The cable companies say that the trials are strictly to demonstrate the feasibility of interactive television and that set-top controllers will fall rapidly in price before they hit the market, making them affordable to the average cable customer within three years.
But many critics of interactive television doubt that the price will drop so quickly.
These critics also question whether interactive television can be financed by revenues from the sale of movies, which is what its proponents are counting on to finance the construction of more sophisticated systems that offer more services. "Everyone is talking about video-on-demand as the 'killer app' for interactive television," said Robert Alexander, a New York consultant, "but I don't think that stands up."
Mr. Alexander estimated that it would cost $100 billion to deploy an advanced electronic network to most American homes. That works out to about $1,000 per home, although even that number will seem optimistic at least until 1996 or 1997.
He then assumed that the price per movie in the interactive television trials would be $1 to $4, generating an hourly rate of 50 cents to $2 per hour, of which the cable operator would clear 25 cents to $1.
Then he estimated that the cable industry would require a 15 to 20 percent return on its investment. If that is true, it would require $20 billion in revenue, equal to 20 to 80 billion hours of movies on demand.
If the figure were 50 billion hours, that would work out to about 500 hours per household -- 10 hours per week, or 5 movies a week for every household in the country.
"It's not disloyal to say that this kind of activity is simply not in the cards," Mr. Alexander said. "Something besides movies-on-demand will have to pay for the new networks."
 
Cable Disappointments
 The new openness toward the personal computer can also be attributed to the collapse of some big mergers between cable and telephone companies that shared a vision of interactive television. Among those broken deals: the TCI-Bell Atlantic merger, and the Cox Enterprises-Southwestern Bell combination.
"As a result of the failure of the mergers, people who have content are looking to the 'den' solution rather than the 'living room' solution," said Mitchell Kapor, the software developer, referring to the den as the room where the PC is often found.
One more reason that prospects for the personal computer are brighter is that the cable industry has been slowing its investment in the modernization of its networks, an upgrade that is more necessary for interactive television than for interactive personal computing. Last week, for example, Time Warner said it would cut capital investment by $100 million. Tele-Communications said in February that it would delay $500 million in new spending until the Government clarified its regulatory position.
The disadvantages of interactive TV have led to a new willingness among many companies to consider the computer. "If we have customers using PC's we intend to serve them," said Robert Thompson, senior vice president at Tele-Communications.
This new awareness shows in many recent industry moves.
In recent months Tele-Communications has drawn nearer to Microsoft, a company with a "PC-centric" view of the world. The two companies, which last year came close to creating a company with others including Time Warner that would produce software for the set-top controller, are now jointly exploring Microsoft's technology for both personal computing and interactive television.
And now that the Pentium chip from Intel and the Power PC chip from I.B.M., Motorola and Apple allow personal computers to run television-quality video, a number of companies are planning to bring out entertaining or educational software that offers sound and video.
For example, 20th Television, a subsidiary of Rupert Murdoch's Fox Inc., recently dispatched a top executive, Matt Jacobson, to lead an effort to develop interactive programming for Delphi, the parent company's on-line personal computer service, which Mr. Murdoch bought last year.
Prodigy has taken a particularly strong interest in linking the personal computer to cable systems. In the company's trial in San Diego, subscribers who link their PC's to a cable system can get Prodigy almost 70 times faster than it comes into their homes by a telephone modem. Combined with the more powerful personal computers available, this means that Prodigy customers can now receive sound and video.
Prodigy recently decided to introduce the cable connection commercially. Before the end of the year it will be available in 12 cities. (The company wouldn't name them.)
 
Other Ventures
 Entrepreneurs are also leaping toward interactive services over the computer. For example, last year Carl Malamud, a Washington computer network expert, introduced Internet Talk Radio. Each week, with the sponsorship of computer and software companies, Mr. Malamud broadcasts a half-hour radio show. People who use powerful computer work stations can listen to Mr. Malamud's program, which includes news and interviews from the computer industry and which is broadcast "digitally" as ones and zeroes over a computer network and then converted to sound on the computer.
Last week Mr. Malamud went a step farther and added video that can be viewed on computer work stations tapping into the Internet. "The future isn't 500 channels coming out of cable TV," he said. "It's going to be a personal computer that will be used in ways the cable companies never thought of."
At least one television personality has also jumped from television to personal computing. Adam Curry, a "video jock" on Viacom's MTV channel, established an address on the Internet last year that offers a newsletter, music and videos.
Last month Mr. Curry left MTV to devote himself entirely to the new personal computer medium. In a letter announcing his resignation last week he said that the Internet "is surpassing all traditional media, with its ever increasing global audience; the power is unlimited, and it's in the hands of the people, finally!"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The PC, surprising companies that bet on interactive TV. (Naum Kazhdan)
 
Charts: "Sizing Up the Competing platforms" shows strengths and weaknesses of the televosion and set-top box approach and the personal computer approach to interactive communication. "Interactivity on Trial" shows major tests of interactive networks. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS; TELEVISION; INTERACTIVE (TWO-WAY) TELEVISION PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (73%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (69%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (68%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN JOHN MALONE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



159 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: May 1-6

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Would Bread Lines Make the Financial Markets Happier?
In the perverse financial world, no good news goes unpunished. The markets hate job numbers that are too strong, because they're afraid the inflation bells will go off -- though no one's actually seen any inflation -- and the Federal Reserve will clamp down again. So on Friday's surprising report that unemployment fell to 6.4 percent and 267,000 payroll jobs were added in April (to top it off, without the truckers' strike that would have been 73,000 higher), the stock and bond markets went into mourning. The Dow industrials, off more than 50 at one point, lost 26, while 30-year Treasury bond yields hit 7.54 percent, an 18-month high. . . . Even as the job numbers soar, though, there are dark spots: New York State has lost 97,000 jobs in 12 months, a worse performance even than California. And last week Digital Equipment said it would cut at least 20,000 more jobs. 

The Noisy Month of May
A silent spring? Not a chance. As nature bursts blissfully forth, gardeners brace for attack, their deafening arsenal -- lawn mowers, weed bashers, leaf blowers, you name it -- gassed up and ready. But noise pollution is just the beginning. While car emissions are scrutinized, garden tools spew far more filth, creating fully 10 percent of air pollution, the E.P.A. says. Mowing for an hour matches the pollution caused by driving 11 1/2 hours. So last week the E.P.A. said it will regulate garden-tool emissions. But it didn't mention one clean, silent, forgotten alternative: the reel mower. How does it run? You push it.
 
'Healthy,' Redefined
For many, food-buying is a constant struggle between healthy foods and high-salt, high-fat siren calls. And some food packagers seemingly offer the best of both worlds by slapping words like "healthy" on all sorts of things. No more. Last week the F.D.A. and the Agriculture Department said that from now on "healthy" on a label must mean healthy inside. Products must be low in fat and low in salt, and have certain redeeming vitamins. An industry lobbying group says the rule is too restrictive because, say, green beans do not meet the vitamin threshold. But wouldn't it be silly to put "healthy" labels on beans?
 
Shopping for Dollars
Governments and currency speculators have very different wish lists. Governments want things nice and steady, otherwise trade gets distorted. A strong dollar makes American goods too costly abroad, while a strong mark makes German goods too costly here. But speculators like movement: then they can roll their dice and -- with all their fancy strategies -- score big if they bet right. Speculators have been betting heavily against the dollar lately -- perhaps because they thought President Clinton wouldn't act to support it -- and their bets have helped batter the dollar. But last week Washington and its allies decided it was enough and, in the biggest intervention in the currency markets in nearly two years, 16 nations went on a dollar shopping spree, propping it up for the moment. The question is, Will speculators be scared into reverse -- or will they simply take a breather?
 
Auto Sales Hit Cruising Speed
When sales surged 19.7 percent in March, auto makers worried that their recovery was so dazzling it would burn out -- that no buyers would be left. They prefer steady growth, a foundation for lasting good times. That's just what they got in April, as the most recent figures showed a far more modest 4.9 percent rise. What cooled things off? Higher interest rates, probably -- but also, many dealers simply didn't have enough cars and trucks to sell. The buyers -- or, as one analyst described them, "close to six million units of pent-up demand waiting to be satisfied" -- are still out there, to keep this recovery purring.
 
COMPANIES
 
Drug Makers Face Reality
Even without health reform, drug makers are racing to adjust to new realities. One new reality: the spread of "managed care" andhealth plans that buy vast quantities of drugs at discount. Managed-care drug companies could control 80 percent of the market in five years. So to keep from being left behind, drug giants are climbing aboard. Just last week SmithKline Beecham agreed to buy Diversified Pharmaceutical Services, a discount-drug marketer, and Pfizer and Value Health said they'd create a managed-care unit.
 
I.B.M., at Your Service
I.B.M. has set itself a reasonable goal: make a decent profit. But the way it's always done so, making computers, provides only scant returns these days. So last week it had a new idea: It will, in effect, try to turn its vast marketing force into consultants, experts who can give clients just what they need, including software and tailor-made plans, not just sell them machines. Marketers will be divided by industry, not by which machine they sell.
 
A Low-Voltage Send-Off
It was a moment that could have marked the beginning of an era: a leading auto maker saying it would mass-produce an electric vehicle. But when Chrysler announced plans for its electric mini-vans last week, it did so as if it had already given up on selling them. It said it would build the mini-van to comply with a California law requiring such vehicles by 1998 but said its range was so short, and its price would be so high, that few people would buy it. But now, at least, electric vehicles have a foot -- well, a battery -- in the door.
 
A Death at Tenneco
Michael Walsh could handle simple matters like turning Tenneco around, but not brain cancer. In February, after a long battle, he stepped aside. Last week he died at 51.
 
At Kodak, Less Is Sharper
George M. C. Fisher knew he had to get hopping. He's Kodak's chairman now only because his predecessor was ousted for not cutting costs fast enough. His plan: pare Kodak to the basics. Last week he said he'd sell just about everything but pictures: the drug unit Sterling Winthrop, plus household products and medical testing businesses. It'll be a far smaller company, with revenues more like $13 billion than $20 billion.
 
Southwest: On Its Own
No matter how much pressure the industry's heavies put on Southwest Airlines, it refuses to play by their rules -- and this upstart has become the nation's most profitable airline. For one thing, it has refused to pay fees to be listed on the big computer reservation systems, and last week rival carriers moved toward deleting Southwest from those systems. Southwest's response was typical of its I'll-take-you-all-on approach. It simply started its own computer system. Pretty soon, American et al. may clamor to be listed there.
 
Jett Wants His Money
Joseph Jett wants his money. Kidder, Peabody dismissed him as its top government bond trader, saying he'd created $350 million in fake profits to inflate his $9 million bonus, and froze nearly $5 million Mr. Jett had in a Kidder account. But last week, "vehemently" denying wrongdoing, Mr. Jett went to court to try to dislodge that money. So what about that $350 million? Mr. Jett may say supervisors knew what he was doing. But if those profits were fiction, how could his pay -- presumably a cut of those profits -- be treated as fact?
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
If Ribbons Count, Yes, It's Open
In a sense, the Channel Tunnel is here. Opening ceremonies were held last week, complete with heads of state cutting ribbons. The huge project, intoned the Queen, rejoins "what nature separated some 40 million years ago." It was fitting that she took the long view, for the tunnel was supposed to open a year ago, and its cost, at $15 billion, is nearly twice the original budget -- and counting. And, ribbons aside, it's still not open: Shuttles for trucks? In a few days, maybe. Passenger trains and car shuttles? This summer, maybe -- for special guests. Regular service? With luck, this fall. And where do investors stand? Don't ask.
 
Vietnam Comes Calling
Unlikely as it may sound, Vietnam wants Americans back. It badly needs rebuilding and foreign investment, and it is wary of getting it only from Asian neighbors. Last week, a delegation from Ho Chi Minh City was here in search of investors, the first such expedition since the American trade embargo was lifted in February. But if it gets any nibbles, all sides must be patient. The two nations have no diplomatic relations yet, and Vietnam is not likely to get most-favored-nation status, which brings low tariffs, for a couple of years.

GRAPHIC: Photos: High-speed train entering the tunnel. (Mario Fourmy/R.E.A.-Saba); Ho Chi Minh City, when it was Saigon. (Ernest Zaugg)
 
Graphs showing change in nonfarm business payrolls from Jan. 1993 to April 1994 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) and the value of the dollar against a trade weighted index of foreign currencies (Sources: Datastream, Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VIETNAM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT SPA (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); NOISE POLLUTION (90%); BONDS (90%); NUTRITION (85%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); LOBBYING (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); AGRICULTURE (74%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); GARDENING (71%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (70%); EMISSIONS (70%); TRUCK DRIVERS (70%); AIR POLLUTION (65%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (62%); FOOD PACKAGING (62%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (73%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



160 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Perversely, Higher Rates Hurt The Dollar

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
THE United States Government went on the record last week, firmly declaring it was against a collapse of the dollar. Supported by unified central bank intervention, the lowly buck rallied a bit.
That it was necessary -- and newsworthy -- for Lloyd Bentsen, the Treasury Secretary, to say nice things about the dollar is another indication just how confused things have become. Mr. Bentsen had once indicated he would welcome a weaker dollar, and it had not been clear that his opinion had changed. 
 The Clinton Administration's foreign economic policies, like its other foreign policies, too often seem reminiscent of the old line about New England weather: if you don't like it, wait five minutes and it will change. Whether on Haiti or trade with China, the impression that is left is of a vacillating Administration unsure of which of its conflicting goals is more important but sensitive to any indication of public opinion.
But in this case it is easy to understand the Administration's hurried decision to intervene to support the dollar. When a patient is given the prescribed remedy and proceeds to get a lot worse, it is clearly time for desperate action. And at least the Fed's first intervention, on April 29, came before Wall Street was clamoring for action.
The bad medicine in this case was the Fed's decision to raise interest rates. In normal times that ought to help the dollar by attracting foreign funds.
In this case, though, the opposite happened. From the Fed's first tightening to its decision to buy bucks, the rate on six-month Treasury bills rose more than a full percentage point. At the same time, the similar German rate fell a quarter point. And the dollar lost 6 percent of its value against the mark.
That perverse reaction is another indication of the truly massive speculation that had been going on regarding American interest rates. No one knows just how large, or how leveraged, were all the bets on the bond bull market. In some cases, like Procter & Gamble's misadventure with interest rate swaps, it appears that even the gamblers did not understand how big their bet was.
Those bets are now being unwound. Rising interest rates are a reason to get out of the bond market, and, with American short-term rates still under European ones, there is a temptation for those abandoning Treasury bonds to get out of dollars as well.
The unwinding of that speculation helps to explain why everything can fall at the same time, as happened Friday when a surprisingly strong employment report sent bonds plunging -- pushing the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds above 7.5 percent for the first time in the Clinton Administration -- while both stocks and the dollar suffered along with it.
None of that has much to do with economic fundamentals, which is one reason why intervention in foreign exchange markets is easier to justify now than at other times. But simply because there was so much speculation on ever-declining interest rates, it is hard to tell how long the perverse effects of unwinding that speculation will last.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the Dow industrial average for the past week, yield on 6-month Treasury bills and value of one dollar in German marks from Jan. to March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); HAITI (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (85%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BOND MARKETS (68%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (54%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



161 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Must It Be No Pain, No Gain?

SERIES: Second of two articles on a recent conference on progressive economics.

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble 

 BODY:
CONVENTIONAL wisdom tends to have a short life span. As Labor Secretary Robert Reich observed at the Detroit jobs conference in March, just a few years ago the conventional wisdom was that Europe and Japan could do no wrong and had nothing to learn from and everything to teach the United States. Now, the United States is doing everything right; Japan, and Europe, everything wrong. Under this theory, the contrast between Europe and the United States is especially vivid: while the former struggles with high unemployment and an expensive system of social insurance, the latter is creating jobs, lowering labor costs and slimming and toning its corporate infrastructure.
The current conventional wisdom came in for criticism last month at the International Seminar on Growth and Employment at Oxford University, a gathering of academics, activists, journalists and directors of progressive think tanks from the United States, Britain, Europe and Australia who came together to mull over politics and the impact of the globalization of markets. The notion that what appears to be working for the United States as it crawls back to economic health -- driving down wages for existing work and creating low-paid jobs -- should be the prescription for Europe does not sit well with progressives. They tend to be less inclined than those who have more faith in the wisdom of the markets to view the economic consequences to individuals of such a course as mere collateral damage. 
 AS Jeff Faux, director of the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, argued in the paper he presented at Magdalen College, Oxford, "Both the so-called American model of low wages and high employment and the so-called European model of high wages and low employment are, in effect, models of how to allocate the pain -- the pain of adjustment to the new brutally competitive global economy."
One of the main flaws with pushing the American model as a solution to the problems posed by international competition, according to Mr. Faux, is that what many people believe about it is simply not true. "There is the belief that the United States model has created job growth," Mr. Faux said at a briefing on the seminar late last month, a belief largely based on what he called misapprehensions about the Reagan-Bush years. It was, Mr. Faux told the seminar, a period "when deregulation took hold, business was encouraged to attack unions and the social safety net was shredded."
By several indicators, Mr. Faux argued, the United States didn't do well during the Reagan-Bush years. An Economic Policy Institute analysis of job and economic growth from 1979 to 1989, a period roughly coinciding with the Republican Administrations, indicates that the country's per capita gross domestic product grew an average 1.5 percent a year, compared with 2.3 percent growth for the eight industrialized countries for which comparable data were available.
An increase in population, rather than any unique job-generating capacity, Mr. Faux wrote, accounted for respectable job growth from 1979 to 1989. And the real wages of production workers dropped in that period. After 1989, the economy declined, until 1993, when G.D.P. growth began to pick up and finally to accelerate.
The cost of those alleged good years? Lower living standards for many and a quadrupling of the country's debt. "It is hard to find in this record," Mr. Faux told the seminar, "support for the simple-minded notion -- constantly repeated and amplified by politicians and the press -- that the deregulated U.S. economy outperformed the rest of the industrial nations and should therefore be the exemplar of economic policy for the coming decade."
American households have coped with the decline in real wages and the erosion of their standard of living by putting more able bodies -- mostly women -- to work, taking on second and third jobs or acceding to the labor market and accepting temporary, contingent and lower-wage work.
Skeptics might argue that the country is emerging from its funk, even if at the expense of job security for some individual citizens. They might also note that the Clinton Administration is taking a new direction, one clearly friendlier to, or at least more aware of, working people.
Mr. Faux acknowledged some improvements, from a progressive point of view, over the previous Administration. But he suggested that the current Administration may have neither the political will nor the capital to move beyond some achievable but incremental economic initiatives.
In the world beyond the Beltway, individual citizens might well ask how long they are expected to bear the brunt of streamlining done in the hope that a lean economy will bring prosperity, as the United States plunges efficiently into new markets. No one in the Government or in industry appears prepared to say.
The United States, along with most other industrialized nations, remains mesmerized, Mr. Faux argued, by the wrong question: "How do we compete in this new global economy?" That, he believes, can be done by tinkering a little here and there, as nations do now. Let currency sink to make products more appealing, drop wages to increase market share in certain industries. Or choose between the low-wage/high-employment strategy or the high-wage/low-employment dichotomy and "beggar your neighbor."
The real question, he argued, should be, "How do we achieve full employment with real rising incomes?" That, Mr. Faux contended, is something industrialized nations must try to manage together, rather than by running each other into the ground. "No doubt many will view the idea of collective economic policy as utopian," he told the seminar. No doubt.
But what seminar, rightish or leftish, ever convened to conclude on a note of conventional wisdom?

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The American Experience: Another View" shows economy growth and wage comparisons for the U.S. and other foreign contries. (Sources: Economic Policy Institute, using Bureau of Labor Statistics data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OXFORD UNIVERSITY ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); TRENDS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY; FAUX, JEFF RONALD REAGAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



162 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: Unlikely Reformer Coaxes India Toward a Market Economy

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

 BODY:
WHEN Manmohan Singh was a primary school student in western Punjab in the 1930's, he took his examinations in a town 20 miles from the village where his family worked as subsistence farmers. Each year, he covered the distance on foot, a journey of 8 to 10 hours, out and back, under a beating Indian sun.
Now, at 61, with an economics doctorate he received 30 years ago from Oxford University, Mr. Singh is India's Finance Minister, but he is still engaged in long-distance travail. Since 1991 he has been the principal architect of market-based reforms aimed at pulling India from the stagnation into which it fell during the four decades after gaining its independence from Britain in 1947, when its governments hewed unswervingly to the doctrines of socialist economics. 
 Next week, India's drive to modernize its economy will get a fresh airing in front of American audiences when Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao visits the United States for the first time since he took office three years ago. Mr. Rao, who will stop in Houston, Boston and Washington, where he will meet with President Clinton, has listed the promotion of the already booming trade and investment flows between the two countries as one of the main objectives of his tour.
Mr. Rao's Congress Party Government, which must call national elections within the next two years, has staked its life on the economic reforms. Between them, Mr. Rao and Mr. Singh have effectively broken the tablets that were carved when Jawarharlal Nehru, leader of the Congress Party and India's first Prime Minister, dedicated the country to the pursuit of a rigid socialist economic autarchy and took the Soviet Union as a model and partner in achieving its goal.
As a veteran of the Congress Party governments led by Mr. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, and grandson, Rajiv Gandhi, the 72-year-old Mr. Rao has become, in effect, the Deng Xiaoping of India -- an aging party leader who, in his sunset years, has abandoned many, if not all, of the economic precepts that had guided earlier governments, challenging not only the old orthodoxies but an entrenched network of vested interests that had built up under the old system.
In the end, Mr. Rao must bear responsibility for the changes. But few in India doubt that his crucial move was a telephone call he made in June 1991 to Mr. Singh, a former governor of India's Reserve Bank who was then languishing as chairman of the country's university grants commission. Mr. Rao appointed Mr. Singh Finance Minister and charged him with introducing some of the most ambitious economic changes India had seen since Britain's East India Company established its trading monopoly in the 18th century, prefiguring the dirigiste economics that had been a hallmark under British and Indian governments for 250 years.
Speaking to foreign reporters in New Delhi earlier this year, Mr. Singh recalled the instructions he received from Mr. Rao when the two met to discuss Mr. Singh's appointment. Greeting Mr. Singh in his office in the yellow sandstone building that once housed the governments of Britain's viceroys, Mr. Rao invited Mr. Singh to begin dismantling what had become known in India as the "license raj," a system of economic management hemmed in at every turn by Government monopolies, decrees, quotas, prohibitions and permits.
At the time, India was in economic and political turmoil, with a balance-of-payments crisis, the worst in independent India's history, deepening a pessimism that had set in after the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi during the national elections the previous month. Mr. Rao, recalled from political retirement to take over as Prime Minister, put the matter squarely. "We are in a crisis," Mr. Singh recalled Mr. Rao as saying. "But we must use this crisis and turn it into an opportunity, to do all those things that we should have done before but somehow were prevented by history or other circumstances from doing."
Mr. Singh took the finance position at a point when India's hard-currency reserves had sunk to the equivalent of less than one month's imports, and Western bankers were speculating that India might default on interest payments on its $70 billion of foreign loans. The crisis was partly cumulative, the result of years of over-borrowing and anemic exports. But it had been hastened by the imminent collapse of the Soviet Union, which had become India's closest political ally as well as its principal arms supplier, main export market and crucial supplier of oil.
As a result of events in Moscow, India lost a barter arrangement that had given it five million tons a year of Soviet crude oil without requiring it to draw on its hard-currency reserves, as well as a market for Indian products, mostly textiles and other light-industrial goods, that had accounted for nearly 20 percent of all Indian exports.
Perhaps more important, New Delhi found itself isolated, a bastion of socialism in a world rapidly abandoning the creed, an Asian country wedded to a system that was causing it to lag distantly behind its capitalist neighbors in Asia, some of which had taken to disparaging India as the "sick man of Asia."
To some, Mr. Singh seemed as unlikely a reformer as Mr. Rao. After returning from Oxford in the 1960's, Mr. Singh spent most of his career as a civil servant, administering the economic system. Before becoming Reserve Bank governor in 1982, he held senior positions in the ministries of finance, economic affairs and foreign trade. If he stood out, it was more for his taste in eye-catching turbans -- his favorite is sky blue -- than for any open break with the system.
BUT like many senior officials, he was privately disillusioned, and the edges of his dissent began showing discreetly in his speeches and writings. In an interview, he said he had been constrained in his public criticisms by his position as a civil servant, but he had concluded more than 20 years ago that big changes were needed.
"Right from the beginning, when I came to the Government, I had been of the view that India needed deregulation, liberalization, tax reform and reductions in excessively high rates of taxation," he said.
With Mr. Rao's backing, Mr. Singh has introduced changes that have marked a sharp break with India's past. One of the earliest involved a 20 percent devaluation of the rupee, which has held stable at about 31 to the dollar, coupled with step-by-step progress toward full convertibility. Foreign companies have been allowed to take 51 percent ownership in joint ventures, and, with Government approval, up to 100 percent, as was the case when the Coca-Cola Company returned to India earlier this year, 20 years after it was forced to sell its Indian operation to local interests.
Corporate and personal income tax rates have been cut sharply, by as much as a third. Tariffs, previously among the world's highest, have been slashed, although many -- like the duty on imported cars, down to 159 percent, from 350 percent -- remain steep. And a big effort has begun to cut through the thicket of Government regulations, winning praise from corporate executives.
The results have been impressive. Foreign exchange reserves have soared, to $13 billion, from the $1 billion on hand when the Rao Government took office. Foreign capital flows, so far mostly in the form of indirect investments in Indian equities, have followed a similar path, reaching more than $3 billion in the last year, more than all the previous investment since 1947. Exports, too, have jumped, rising by 20 percent in the last year. And inflation has been halved, to about 8.5 percent, from 17 percent in 1991.
BUT for all the progress, the reforms remain embattled, criticized for going too far and for not going far enough.
Many who support the changes instituted so far say the reforms have fallen far short of what will be needed if India is to generate the wealth needed to end the poverty which, by the Finance Ministry's estimates, still traps nearly 40 percent of the population of more than 850 million people. Others, in the left-wing and Hindu nationalist parties that occupy the opposition benches in India's Parliament, accuse the Government of subordinating India's independence and its Hindu traditions to Western capitalist pressures.
Like almost all Indian administrations that preceded it, Mr. Rao's has been accused of widespread corruption. Mr. Singh's strength, apart from his economic expertise, lies partly in the reputation he has built for honesty, which helped him weather a stock-trading scandal that rocked India in 1992. After an official inquiry strongly censured the Finance Ministry for failing to prevent the diversion of $1.5 billion in loans from Government-owned banks into fraudulent stock speculation, Mr. Singh offered his resignation to Mr. Rao, who rejected it. In polls taken by Indian newspapers, Mr. Singh has been rated as the cabinet minister voters trusted most. Among Western diplomats, he has a similar standing. "There is no double-talk with Singh," one ambassador said. "What he says, he believes."
While other members of the Rao Government have hedged their commitment to economic reform, Mr. Singh has been increasingly blunt about the failures of the old system, unafraid to say, in effect, that the country had taken the wrong road for 40 years. "Those of us who were raised in the Anglo-Saxon tradition perhaps were too readily convinced that the state could be a benevolent protector of the public interest," he said to the foreign reporters earlier this year. "But by the late 70's and early 80's it had become quite clear that the whole system had outlived its usefulness."
Such talk has angered those who cling to the old socialist ideals, and added extra zest to the protesters who have singled out Mr. Singh in mass demonstrations against the reforms. During demonstrations in New Delhi last month against the new General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which India signed in the face of bitter opposition from farmers and others who fear for their livelihoods under the pact, a straw figure with a sky-blue turban, unmistakably an effigy of the Finance Minister, was burned.
Although the Congress Party fared well in state elections last fall, the supporters of the reforms say they fear that the political tides could still move against the reforms. But Mr. Singh said he was confident that the arguments henceforth would focus on the pace of reform, not on the need for the changes.
"The Prime Minister has succeeded in changing the mindset of millions of people in India," Mr. Singh said to the foreign reporters. "The pressures of the forces we have unleashed have a logic of their own."
 
 
 
CUTBACKS, WITH COMPASSION
 AMONG those who support economic reform in India, some of the harshest critics of the Government's efforts point to the reluctance to make big cuts in the country's bloated public sector, which employs more than 18 million people.
About 2.1 million of those workers are in a vast jobs-for-life network of state-owned enterprises that dominate key industries like coal, steel, oil, telecommunications and transportation, and also reach into electronics, engineering, newsprint and textiles. In its estimates for 1992 and 1993, the Finance Ministry listed 104 of the 237 state-owned enterprises as "loss making," with rupee losses accruing at a rate equivalent to nearly $1.3 billion a year.
Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao, a canny political strategist who has a narrow majority in Parliament, has resisted calls for a far-reaching program of closings or privatization, saying he had "no right" to throw millions out of work.
For his part, Finance Minister Manmohan Singh, who is more of an economist than a politician, has made it clear that he favors "a bolder program of disinvestment" by the Government aimed at getting rid of what he calls "patently unviable enterprises." But Mr. Singh has acknowledged that progress will be slow.
"We will have growth with a human face," Mr. Singh said to foreign reporters in New Delhi earlier this year. "Any other path will not be acceptable if we are to remain a social democracy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manmohan Singh, India's Finance Minister, is the principal architect of the country's market-based reforms. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); POLITICS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); ELECTIONS (69%); TRENDS (60%); GOVERNORS (52%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; SINGH, MANMOHAN (MIN); RAO, P V NARASIMHA (PRIME MIN) MANMOHAN SINGH (90%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



163 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 23; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: The Importance Of Fire I. Beaches

 BODY:
"Beaches Expecting Better Year Than '93" [April 24] makes no mention of the 32 miles of coastline of Fire Island. It contains major public recreation areas, Robert Moses State Park, Smith Point County Park, town beaches of Islip and Brookhaven and the Fire Island National Seashore. The barrier also plays a key ecological role, protecting the low-lying mainland flood plain from inundation and maintaining the ecosystem of the Great South Bay. Finally, it plays a significant role in the local and regional economy.
What should be reported is the following: 
 *New York State completed a $4.0 million renourishment project at Moses State Park last summer.
*Seven Fire Island communities taxed themselves some $80 million to mount dredging projects to restore the island's decimated dunes. The total cost of these projects, which are still in progress, will be borne by the residents of Fire Island.
*The state is also giving serious consideration to sand-bypassing operations at Shinnecock, Moriches, Fire Island and Jones Inlets to re-establish the natural littoral drift of sand from east to west.
*There is a growing acceptance of evidence from the scientific community which suggests that much of the coastal erosion along Long Island's South Shore is the result of human intervention. This has led to a decision to taper the groin field at Westhampton Dunes.
Beyond these initial steps the South Shore is uniting in an effort to initiate a comprehensive nourishment project for the entire barrier system. Patchwork solutions to the problem of shore preservation are neither ecologically nor economically effective.
JANE EKSTEIN
Executive Director
Save Our Seashore
Brightwaters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH BAY BMW (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FIRE ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES COASTAL AREAS (93%); BEACHES (91%); STATE PARKS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); FLOOD ZONES (76%); EROSION (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



164 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
In Welfare Debate, It's Now Not 'How?' but 'Why?'

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT is a potent promise, this often-repeated vow of President Clinton's to "end welfare as we know it." And it may have unleashed forces that Mr. Clinton did not envision and cannot control.
 Propelled by social distress and political opportunism, the welfare debate is now moving further and faster than anyone predicted as recently as six months ago. 
 While it is doubtful that Congress will act before the November elections, there is more than one legislative season involved. When the dust settles, whether next year or five years beyond, the country could very well see a substantially smaller safety net beneath the 10 million indigent children who rely on Federal aid.
 "You let loose a lot of forces when you say, 'End welfare as we know it,' which is why I never said any such thing," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who is the Capitol's senior authority on welfare politics. "We may look back and say, 'What in the name of God have we done?' "
 A decade ago, abolishing cash aid to indigent mothers was such a radical idea that even its intellectual godfather, the social theorist Charles Murray, would tout it only as a "thought experiment." Ten days ago, a visitor to the Capitol could have witnessed a dozen Republicans standing on the lawn to advocate a variation on the theme, proposing to deny cash to mothers under 21.
 And what of their children? "Send them to orphanages if necessary" is the most common response. It was offered by the bill's proponents, with no more trepidation than if the discussion had been on potato policy or roads.
 While Mr. Clinton himself has nothing so severe in mind, the siren of radical change sounds weekly, in Congress, research outfits and the studios of talk radio. It is alluring even to people like Representative Marge Roukema of New Jersey, a self-styled moderate who confessed last week, "I've been startled by my own reaction, and the fact that I'm questioning the value of some of these programs."
 Ms. Roukema, a Republican who has worked on welfare issues for a decade, stopped short of embracing the calls to end cash aid to young mothers. But she cited her willingness to consider them as evidence that "people are more open to admitting that the problem seems to be out of control."
 It takes more than six words of Presidential oratory to produce an appetite for radical change. The record size and cost of the welfare rolls is a factor. So is the ratio of out-of-wedlock births: a full 30 percent of American children are now born to single mothers.
 Racial animosity plays a role. And so do the burdens borne by millions of working mothers, who have less and less sympathy for letting poor women stay at home.
 The momentum for change is also quickened by the genuine despair of the central cities, which welfare may not have caused but certainly does not cure. The current system has no defenders, only varying degrees of critics, the most extreme of whom argue that nothing could be worse than the world that now exists.
 Still, Mr. Clinton's own role has been central, in a Nixon-to-China kind of way. When the nation's most powerful Democrat says, "End welfare," most listeners forget the "as we know it" hedge, the addenda promising child care and training. Mr. Clinton's oratory (and subsequent inaction) has created a void, which both friends and foes have rushed to fill.
 "His emphasis in the campaign put the issue on the front burner," said Gov. William Weld of Massachusetts, a Republican who has proposed the nation's strictest work program. Mr. Clinton is pledging to make welfare recipients join a work program after two years; Mr. Weld wants to give them 60 days.
 Mr. Clinton has yet to issue his proposal, but others are not waiting. He is pledging the toughest work program of any President, but House Republicans have already called it too soft, and have introduced a tougher proposal, with longer work hours and few exemptions.
 And other Republicans are saying that even that plan is too soft. The issue is no longer making welfare recipients work, they say, but preventing them from having out-of-wedlock births. And that, they say, can be accomplished only by ending cash payments.
 Last month's proposal to do so is sponsored by Representative James Talent of Missouri and Senator Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina, both first-term Republicans. A similar plan is backed by some of the party's top draws, including Jack F. Kemp, the self-styled "bleeding heart conservative," and William Bennett, the former drug-policy czar.
 Part of their motivation is clearly partisan. They recently circulated a memorandum calling on Republicans to score political points and "discredit the moderate pretensions of the President."
 States are not waiting. At least 30 have experimental programs under way, designed to prod or pull people from welfare, a pattern that critics regard as a piecemeal dismantling of the system.
 Wisconsin, Florida and Vermont have won Federal permission to try their own version of a two-year limit, and a decision on the Massachusetts proposal is due in the next few weeks. New Jersey, Arkansas and Georgia are denying additional benefits to women who have additional children. Wisconsin and Ohio cut grants to women whose children skip school.
 The movement has spilled into other areas of poverty policy, as was evident in New York on Friday, when Mayor Rudolph W. Guiliani announced a reversal in the policy toward the homeless. Mr. Guiliani said he would deny shelter to families who refused to join training or drug-treatment programs.
 
More Misery Than Now?
 But Mr. Clinton's own zeal may be fading. Richard Nixon barely mentioned welfare in his 1968 campaign, but proposed a sweeping overhaul after seven months in office. (More generous than anything Mr. Clinton has in mind, this plan, never approved, would have set a guaranteed national income.)
 Mr. Clinton, by contrast, beat the campaign drum loudly, but after 16 months has not sent over a bill. In part, that is because he does not want to slow down his health care proposal, which must travel through the same Congressional committees.
 But his aides have also fought pitched battles among themselves to define what ending welfare means, and how to pay for it. They want to expand training programs, and then require those still unemployed after two years to join a work program.
 But what of those who cannot find jobs when the work program ends? There might be little hesitation to cut them off, were only adults involved. But the national program is called Aid to Families with Dependent Children (italics added). It is the child's interests that makes welfare so hard to end.
 Mr. Bennett, the former drug-policy czar, argues that eliminating cash payments would end the incentive for poor young women to have babies they cannot support.
 While he agrees that some children could be left without parental support, he said even orphanages would be an improvement over the status quo.
 "I have a hard time believing you'd have more misery than you have now," he said.
 But Mr. Moynihan said that taking children from their parents simply because they are poor is a form of "child abuse."
 Bruce Reed, a White House aide, said Mr. Clinton coined the phrase in October 1991, just after announcing his candidacy. Discounting fears that it may lead to draconian results, Mr. reed says the phrase embodies the nation's desire for fundamental but positive change.
 Any misgivings? "No. No!" Mr. Reed said. "It's been a guiding star."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Does welfare provide an essential safety net or foster dependence? Here, one of 11 children of parents on welfare watches television at home in East St. Louis, Ill. (Alex Quesada/Matrix)(pg.1); Welfare worker and client in the Bronx. (The New York Times(1981))(pg.3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FEDERAL AID (US) INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ORPHANS (74%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); WORKING MOTHERS (69%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (66%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



165 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World Money Market

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
HAVE you ever noticed that whenever you read a story about the dollar, the news always seems bad? When the dollar is up, it's bad. When the dollar is down, it's bad. When the market is closed, it's bad. When the market is open, it's bad. When the Treasury is intervening to prop up the dollar, it's bad and when there is no intervention, it's bad. Dollar stories are like the weather report from Antarctica: it's always bad.
 Why is that? The simple answer is that the dollar is connected to so many things that its movement up or down is always cutting one person's net worth while doing wonders for another's balance sheet. For instance, when the dollar is too weak -- as it was last week when the Treasury stepped in to prop up the American currency -- exporters are thrilled because it means everything they sell abroad is cheaper and easier to buy, but importers howl because it means everything they sell is more expensive and harder to buy. The dollar story is the ultimate investor Rorschach test: How you interpret it depends entirely on where your money is. 
 But what's new today is how many more people find themselves reading those ink blots. The dollar story used to be read by exporters, Wall Street types and tourists about to go to Europe who wanted to know whether they would get a bargain on Lacoste shirts in Spain.
 No more. Millions of Americans are now invested in global stock and bond markets, either directly or through their pension funds and mutual funds; this is where the highest yields are now. But fluctuations in the dollar exchange rate affect their portfolios every day. "During the cold war, when there was a disturbance somewhere, the first question that people asked was: 'Are we going to send troops?' " said a top Clinton economic adviser. "Today the first question is: 'How is an invasion of Haiti going to affect my Argentine bond fund?' "
 Worldwide investing has stretched the boundaries of anxiety. A Cartesian monetarist might say: "I invest, therefore I worry," because there are now so many more things for investors to worry about. In the 1960's you worried if AT&T was going to get permission to raise its long distance rates a few pennies. In the 1990's you worry whether the Mexican central bank is pursuing a tight enough monetary policy and how the kidnapping of a businessman in Chiapas might affect the dollar-peso exchange rate, because part of your mutual fund is in Mexican stocks.
 Not only are more Americans invested abroad, but more foreigners are invested in American markets; they too are obsessed with that dollar rate. Now combine this explosion in global investing with increasingly deregulated financial markets, with managers of huge money funds who can shift capital around the globe like an electronic herd moving at the speed of light, with the fact that the world is now tapped into CNN, and you can understand why the dollar can fluctuate so easily. Never has more money been exposed to more information that could influence traders, who can act on their hunches, hopes and fears more quickly.
 That is why textbook economic fundamentals are only one factor explaining the dollar's rise and fall. In the long run, economic fundamentals will always be predominant in determining the dollar's value. But in the short run, perceptions of President Clinton, his ability to lead, his foreign policy team, his crises and his personal affairs, all figure into how investors view the greenback.
 At a currency seminar in Washington last week, one trader remarked that when President Clinton hired the powerful Washington lawyer Robert Bennett to defend him against charges of sexual harassment, "it was really a boon for the dollar. We were starting to lose faith in him and that helped turn things."
 Excuse me? The dollar went up because Mr. Clinton hired the right lawyer? That's right, and that is why the key to currency trading on a short-term basis is not simply asking about the economic fundamentals. It is asking what political and economic events, trends, moods and interconnections might trigger the electronic herd to move money in or out of dollars. Pity the poor little American exporter trying to plan his business in such a marketplace. No wonder there is a new move afoot to return to fixed exchange rates.
 "The value of the dollar on any given day is like a global referendum on all the policies of the Clinton Administration combined," said a senior Clinton adviser. "It is as though the world were having a huge discussion on the Internet, and the dollar's value is a snapshot of that discussion."
 Then there is the rising importance of trade. More than 10 percent of the American economy, and some 14 million jobs, are now involved in foreign trade. In the old days, the main forces disrupting trade were artificial barriers, quotas and tariffs put up by one country against another. But as these barriers are being cleared away with global trade agreements, the biggest impediment to free trade is becoming the wild currency gyrations so prevalent today.
 The Mexican peso fell 8 percent in value against the dollar since Jan. 1 because of political turmoil in Mexico. That is like an 8 percent tariff on everything Americans sell Mexico, which means Mexicans will buy less. As a result, the United States and Canada two weeks ago put together a multi-billion-dollar credit line for Mexico to stabilize its currency. The more trade barriers come down, the more international cooperation of this sort is going to be required to modulate currency swings, because exporters, importers and investors simply cannot take advantage of free-trade zones if currency rates are bouncing around like golf balls on cement.
 
Playin' the Moolah Rag
 Finally, the dollar story is taking on a new meaning because of an unfortunate chain of events: The huge deficits run up by previous Administrations have basically deprived this government of any fiscal policy to promote domestic growth. With all the spending caps, there is virtually no discretionary fiscal income left to fine-tune the economy. All that is left is monetary policy. This is like trying to play a piano with only the black keys.
 Monetary policy relies primarily on the Federal Reserve's manipulation of interest rates to heat up or cool down the economy. And the Fed's ability to do that is highly influenced by the value of the dollar, because a sudden plunge in the dollar forces the Government to raise interest rates to continue attracting funds to finance the deficit. So the more important monetary policy becomes, the more influential swings in the dollar become.
 That is one reason the Fed last week had to team up with 16 other central banks to bolster the dollar against an onslaught from global speculators. These high rollers have King Midas's money and Attila the Hun's morals, and they now pose a formidable challenge to the world's biggest central banks. It is still too early to say who won their latest test of wills.
 "Governments can no longer say, 'These are what exchange rates are going to be because we say so,' " observed Judy Shelton, an expert on world monetary systems. "It used to be that you could enforce that threat because central banks had more money, almost unlimited reserves, to insist on the price they wanted for currencies.
 "But today some individual currency speculators have as much money as some small countries. You put them all together and they are formidable force, especially when they smell blood."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); SPAIN (69%); ANTARCTICA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); SPAIN (69%); ANTARCTICA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRENDS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (84%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); COLD WAR (73%); TELEPHONE RATES (72%); PENSION FUNDS (71%); BOND FUNDS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



166 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Life's Hard? Blame the Market

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
IN the 1970's, inflation outran wages, and you blamed Jimmy Carter and the Arabs. In the 1980's, Wall Street hustlers dined on beluga while the Department of Agriculture declared ketchup a vegetable, and you blamed Ronald Reagan and Michael Milken. Then came the recession, the first to take a whack at white-collar jobs, and you blamed George Bush and the Japanese.
 Now the recession is over, the Democrat in the White House says he feels your pain -- and yet you're worried as ever about paying the bills. In fact, the corporate downsizing that began in the 1980's seems to be gaining momentum, leaving even privileged Americans to ponder a future life in the slow lane. Who's left to blame? 
 The better question, argues Frank Levy, an economist at M.I.T., is not who, but what. And the best answer is free markets -- more specifically, the way markets divide the economic pie. "Rising productivity means rising living standards on average," notes Mr. Levy. "But these days, hardly anyone is average." Indeed, the collapse in prospects for unskilled workers and the emergence of what Robert Frank of Cornell and Philip Cook of Duke University have dubbed winner-take-all economics has strained the collective faith in the justice of markets.
 Part of the confusion over what constitutes economic fairness stems from the American genius for living with contradiction. According to the Horatio Alger definition, fairness is equality of opportunity, the idea that the prizes should go to the fleet as long as everyone starts at the same place. But people also like to believe that return should be related to virtue -- that the reward for teaching school or inventing a new drug should be roughly proportional to its social value. Still another standard would measure economic justice by the treatment of those at the bottom.
 Americans long managed to ignore these apparent contradictions. In the 1950's and 1960's prosperity marched in lockstep with diminishing inequality. And while these decades were apparently exceptions, most of the decades that preceded the golden postwar era were not so bad, either. The gap between rich and poor often widened in periods of rapid growth, but almost everyone gained while some even managed to grab the brass ring.
 America's luck seems to have run out in the mid-1970's, and with it the luxury of assuming that capitalism's natural face was benign. As almost everybody has since acknowledged, the economy has created millions of losers -- unskilled workers, younger workers, children in single-parent households -- and put the striving middle-class on a strict regime of two often-insecure jobs per family. What is not resolved, however, is what could or should be done about it.
 It's easy enough to explain the plight of the unskilled. Economists will be busy for years apportioning the blame among technology, competition from women, freer trade, deregulation, de-unionization, immigration and changing attitudes toward work.
 
Economies of Scale
 The hard part is explaining why the incomes of workers with nominally equal qualifications have diverged so sharply. This phenomenon is most evident at the superstar level, with the near-doubling of earned income of the top one-quarter percent of taxpayers. But there are echoes of winner-take-all outcomes through the rest of the pecking order. Consider, for example, the split between $25-an-hour autoworkers who assemble Fords and the $5-an-hour fast food workers across the street who assemble burritos.
 One explanation, argues Robert Frank, is that changes in technology, marketing and corporate organization have created fantastic economies of scale in highly specialized services. "One soprano's voice on a CD can do the work of hundreds" in old-fashioned concert halls, he notes. Since most people get their music on CD's, the very best sopranos make fortunes while others wait on tables. By the same token, he says, a fine lawyer may be only marginally better at the craft than the competition, "but if you are being sued for $100 million, think how much more it is worth to hire the one who can improve your odds of winning by just a few percent."
 Another explanation is the breakdown of social conventions that limited extremes in compensation and deterred those with the wherewithal from simply taking the money and running. Paul Joskow of M.I.T. estimates that during the 1980's, a period of stagnant average wages, the pay of chief executives at 800 large corporations rose by 75 percent. And this apparent breakdown in we're-all-in-this-together civility, argues Andrei Shleifer of Harvard, could also help to explain the ruthlessness of corporate restructuring, in which divisions are liquidated or moved abroad, middle managers fired, pension plans abandoned and union strikers replaced.
 What, if anything, should be done about winner-take-all outcomes, argue most analysts, turns on what is driving the phenomenon. Economists are generally inclined to give the benefit of the doubt to markets, assuming that interference will reduce productivity by distorting incentives to work, hire, save and invest. Thus what the late economist Arthur Okun called "the big tradeoff" between economic efficiency and fairness was a rationale for caution -- caution reflected in everything from worries about the impact of high tax rates to flat-out opposition to minimum wages.
 But some critics, notably Derek Bok, the former president of Harvard and author of "The Cost of Talent," thinks there is no real market to preserve at the very top -- corporate executives, he argues, effectively control their own pay -- and thus little reason to worry that interference would reduce efficiency. For his part Mr. Frank believes that winner-take-all is often the consequence of a subtler form of market distortion, one in which much of the investment in learning "superstar" trades such as investment banking goes to waste because only a tiny fraction of the applicants ever get the superstar jobs.
 "If Frank is right," concludes Jim Rebitzer of M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management, "it's a win-win situation" to discourage such overinvestment by heavily taxing the superstars. Mr. Frank would also like to level the playing field by subsidizing investment in productive activities, like teaching, that offer no prospect of superstar status.
 By the same token, corporate restructuring is often seen as necessary medicine for what ails a slothful corporate America no longer shielded from global competition. On the other hand if, as Mr. Shleifer suggests, the shuffling and reshuffling of corporate assets has largely served the short-term interests of investment bankers and fad-obsessed managers, rules against plant closings or firing without generous severance might raise productivity.
 But to Mickey Kaus, the author of "The End of Inequality," this debate is a distraction from some uncomfortable truths. Adam Smith's invisible hand has no moral sensibility, he argues, and the outcomes determined by markets are unlikely to be fair. Worse, he predicts, the politically tolerable level of tinkering with income distribution -- everything from education reform to tax policy -- will be insufficient to right the balance.
 What, then, is left to do? Mr. Kaus thinks the best hope is to convince people to value community more and material success less. "The goal should be social equality, not money equality," he argues. "Some might drive Porsches and some might not own cars -- but they would all be willing to live in the same neighborhood and send their children to the same schools."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRODUCTIVITY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PARENTS (73%); CHILDREN (68%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER JIMMY CARTER (73%); MICHAEL MILKEN (58%); RONALD REAGAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



167 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-15
 
HAITI ASYLUM POLICY REVERSED
President Clinton reversed his Haiti policy, no longer requiring refugees to be sent back and approving asylum hearings for those who try to reach the United States. 1
VIETNAM FACING CRISIS
Vietnam is booming economically, but unless the Communist Government can control its population and change demographic trends, experts believe, it will face a catastrophe. 1
BATTLE OF WILLS IN BOSNIA
An agreement by the Bosnian Serbs to allow aid flights to land at the Bosnian city of Tuzla has become the focal point for a battle of wills with the United Nations. 9
RUSSIANS FACING UNEMPLOYMENT
For Russians working in thousands of debt-ridden and inefficient factories, capitalism is beginning to mean shutdowns, leaving workers fearful and angry. 3
RWANDAN REFUGEES STRUGGLING
For the 250,000 Rwandan refugees camped over the border in Tanzania, life has become a daily struggle to get enough food and to find shelter from the pouring rain. 10
SOUTH AFRICA DEMOCRACY BEGINS
Although the Government has not been inaugurated, South Africa's provincial legislatures met and at least one focused on points of order instead of broader issues. 10
 
A Japanese official was dismissed for remarks on World War II. 12
As civil war continued, Yemen's leader demanded a surrender. 15
Italy will press Argentina for extradition in a war-crimes case. 11
 
National 16-28
 
U.S. SHIFTS ECONOMIC STANCE
After a year and a half of seeking faster economic growth, the Clinton Administration has now reluctantly changed course, putting the stability of financial markets ahead of rapid economic expansion. 1
LOOKING TO WAYS AND MEANS
Advocates of health care restructuring are desperate for a display of legislative machismo to break the stalemate in other Congressional committees. They are counting on the Ways and Means Committee to produce it. 1
SPECTER OF HEROIN GROWS
The latest drug in vogue is heroin, which, a generation ago, may have evoked the specter of the ultimate dead end. But for young users, its allure has grown. 1
A HARASSING SWITCH
Some conservatives who had once called Anita Hill a liar for accusing Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment were now supporting Paula Jones, the woman accusing President Clinton of sexual harassment. Some women who put Ms. Hill on a pedestal now find themselves wishing they could cut the ground out from underneath Ms. Jones. 16
OUTSIDER LOSES ALLURE
Two years ago, Lynn Yeakel almost unseated Senator Arlen Spector of Pennsylvania by focusing on his role in questioning Prof. Anita Hill. But now, she is just one of a pack of Democrats seeking the nomination for Governor. 16
WHAT IS A 'MOTHER'?
Once, it was clear what a mother was supposed to be. But there is now, as seldom before, intense confusion and anxiety about motherhood. 26
 
Washington Talk: A day in the House, night in the Senate. 24
 
Metro 29-40
 
A DRIVER WITHOUT A LICENSE
He was a man who loved cars and helped his neighbors, but Abraham Meyers, charged with fatally running down three members of a family, was also a man who drank and had no driver's license. 1
BIGGER STAGE FOR NEWARK MAYOR
As Sharpe James closes what seems likely to be his third successful bid for the office of Mayor of Newark, his national stature is growing. 29
GANGS AND VIOLENCE IN JAILS
Jail officials in New York City are becoming worried about the organizing of inmates into large gangs and an upsurge of violence. 29
CUOMO REJECTS BUDGET DEAL
Governor Cuomo has rejected a tentative budget proposal, saying it would spend $200 million more than the state can afford this year. 29
 
The Schools Chancellor is postponing a special education shake-up. 31
A proposed contract with school custodians is not a revolution. 31
A fire captain dies. 31
Fresh Air Fund 30
Obituaries 38
Clement Greenberg, a prominent American art critic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); RWANDA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); YEMEN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (53%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); RWANDA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); YEMEN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); HEROIN (67%); WAR CRIMES (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); ARLEN SPECTER (78%); CLARENCE THOMAS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



168 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Grants Haitian Exiles Hearings at Sea

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7

 BODY:
President Clinton decided today to grant asylum hearings to Haitians who are halted at sea while trying to reach the United States, reversing a policy that has required the Coast Guard to forcibly return the boats, White House officials said.
Responding to growing pressure from Congress and supporters of Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, White House officials said the United States would grant asylum interviews to potential refugees on United States vessels in the Caribbean or at sites in other countries in the region. 
 Administration officials said they had not yet decided which countrieswould be asked to receive the refugees for processing. They have considered and rejected approaching Honduras and Guyana.
Refugees deemed not eligible for asylum would be returned to Haiti.
Shortly before he took office last year, Mr. Clinton announced that he would continue the Bush Administration's policy of intercepting boats filled with fleeing Haitians and forcibly returning the refugees to Haiti without a hearing. During the presidential campaign he had described that policy, instituted in May 1992, as cruel..
When he decided to adopt the Bush Administration's approach, President Clinton defended his action by saying that allowing Haitians to land would encourage thousands more to risk their lives on the high seas.
But a senior White House official said that recent developments in Haiti, including reports of a renewed wave of military terror and killings, had forced a reconsideration.
"The situation in Haiti has become more violent, and the Government more repressive," a senior White House official said today. "Our concern has increased about that percentage of people who take to the boats who have a justifiable claim for political refugee status."
The official said that no more than 10 percent of Haitians who now apply for asylum at processing centers in Haiti are found to be eligible, and that the United States does not expect this to change.
Many have been judged to be economic refugees. Haiti is the poorest country in the hemisphere, and international sanctions adopted after the 1991 coup against Father Aristide have aggravated the deprivation faced by ordinary people.
In settling on the new approach, which officials expect to announce formally on Sunday and put in place in about two weeks, Mr. Clinton is reviving a formula that the United States used from 1982 to 1992 but discontinued, in part because interviews conducted on Coast Guard vessels were considered unreliable.
Human rights campaigners had also raised concerns about shipboard reviews because of living conditions aboard the smaller Coast Guard vessels.
This time, officials said, the processing will take place on board larger Navy ships that can better accommodate the individual asylum hearings. The White House remains opposed to reopening the processing center at the United States naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, used in the first few months after the September 1991 coup.
The options approved today allow the White House to address the immediate issue without encouraging a flood of Haitians to set out for Florida.
The change of policy comes as part of a general re-examination of Haiti policy, which the President has recently said must be revised.
 
A Storm of Protest
 Over the last few weeks, the Administration's 16-month-old approach to the Haiti question has stirred wrath among members of Congress, who have called for a military invasion, a suspension of the direct return policy and an extension of an oil embargo to cover nearly all trade with Haiti.
The Clinton Administration's policy on forcible repatriation of refugees has also angered Father Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected President, who has lived in exile in the United States since he was ousted by the Haitian military.
On Friday, the United Nations Security Council voted unanimously to tighten the embargo in response to a call by the United States for tougher action to press the military to let Father Aristide return.
 
Hunger Strike by Robinson
 Mr. Clinton had also been asked to abandon the repatriation policy by Randall Robinson, the executive director of the TransAfrica Foundation, who has been fasting for nearly a month in an effort to step up pressure on Mr. Clinton to change the policy. He has lost 12 pounds from his 6-foot 5-inch, 195-pound frame on a diet of juice and water and was treated briefly in a hospital for dehydration this week.
Asked about the change in policy today, Mr. Robinson only responded: "I hope that the Administration will change course but, of course, I can't respond until I hear it officially from the Administration."
Administration officials had considered and rejected shipboard or third-country hearings just two weeks ago. Holding hearings in another country was then considered too expensive and unwieldy, and officials questioned whether the country involved would be able to deport the refugees who were denied asylum.
Administration officials who have spoken with Mr. Robinson said today that his condition played some role in their decision to revise the policy now. But they also stressed that the White House had been reviewing it for more than a month and did not negotiate with Mr. Robinson.
Mr. Clinton met for three and a half hours today with Vice President Gore, Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Gen. John Shalikashvili, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Defense Secretary William Perry, Madeleine K. Albright, the American delegate to the United Nations, and other senior aides.
 
Limits of New Policy
 The aides emphasized afterward that the change in policy did not mean the United States would open its docks to any Haitian fleeing the nation for economic or other reasons unrelated to political persecution.
"We don't want any Haitian to believe he or she can get a better deal by taking to boats instead of going to internal processing centers," a White House official said. "This is not an easier way to get in."
American officials have abandoned efforts at achieving Father Aristide's return through negotiations and have recently begun hinting in public that they would consider using force to oust Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, the military leader.
 
Cool to Proposal on Island
 Some human rights groups have supported creating a safe haven on Ile de la Gonave, off the Haitian coast, for people fleeing persecution. But the Administration rejected that last year because it would require building installations and American military occupation of Haitian territory.
Father Aristide said in an interview conducted before Mr. Clinton's meeting today that American policy would have to shift to take into account the latest repression in Haiti.
"Our Haitians cannot flee political repression," he said on the CNN program "Both Sides" with Jesse Jackson. "The U.S. vessels are around our island. And when they escape, they send our refugees back to this house on fire after seeing 5,000 killed by the military."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CUBA (91%); HONDURAS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GUYANA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (90%); WHITE HOUSE (87%); COAST GUARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (90%); WHITE HOUSE (87%); COAST GUARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CUBA (91%); HONDURAS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GUYANA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS POLITICAL ASYLUM (91%); REFUGEES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); COUPS (89%); NAVIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); TERRORISM (50%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



169 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SHIFTS STANCE IN EFFORT TO SLOW ECONOMIC GROWTH

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7

 BODY:
After a year and a half of seeking faster economic growth, the Clinton Administration has now reluctantly changed course, putting the stability of financial markets ahead of rapid economic expansion.
No longer do Administration officials promote low interest rates and a falling dollar. The economy's health, coupled with the political uncertainties that have led an already weak dollar to sag further, has driven the Administration to abandon those early policies. 
 The forces driving the shift became clearer in the last week, as the dollar's slump forced 16 countries to come to its rescue on Wednesday. And on Friday, United States employment figures provided new evidence that the slow, jobless recovery of 1992 and 1993 was now neither slow nor jobless.
As a result, officials appear resigned to higher rates and a strong dollar -- two policies that will brake the economy and dampen job creation this year.
The shift in stance has been expressed most clearly by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. He said without criticism three weeks ago that he expected further increases in short-term interest rates of up to half a percentage point by the Federal Reserve. And on Wednesday, he organized the international rescue of the dollar.
"This Administration sees no advantage in an undervalued currency," he said then.
The goal of the shift is not to stop the recovery. The aim is to do whatever possible to insure that the economic expansion is as long and inflation-free as possible -- ideally lasting through the next Presidential election in 1996.
"Growth is good for this society as long as it doesn't pass the point of tripping off inflation," Alan S. Blinder, one of the Administration's most influential economists, testified before a Congressional committee on Friday.
But Mr. Blinder, an economist from Princeton University and a member of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, who has been nominated by President Clinton to become the Fed's next vice chairman, gave an unusually cautious definition, at least for a Democrat, of how much growth could set off inflation. If growth persists for more than two years from now at an annual pace of 3 percent -- a fairly modest rate -- then inflation could resume, he warned.
The Clinton Administration's shift could be unpopular with liberal Democrats who have criticized the Fed for its rate increases. But it is in keeping with Mr. Clinton's political goal of positioning himself as a Democrat who is not feared on Wall Street.
More basically, it reflects a change in the Administration's view of where the real risks lie in the economy. In the 1992 Presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton made reviving a moribund economy his central promise and talked of stimulating the economy with Federal spending programs, usually described as investments. "We have to both bring down the deficit and get our economy going through these kinds of investments in order to get the kind of wealth and jobs and incomes we need in America," he said in a Presidential debate on Oct. 16, 1992.
That talk has faded, particularly after Congressional Republicans defeated the President's economic stimulus proposal a year ago. Administration officials then began pointing to low interest rates as the engine of recovery.
But back then, as Mr. Blinder said on Friday, pursuing faster growth by holding down rates posed little risk of inflation, while slow growth posed a strong danger of keeping millions of Americans out of work.
Now, he said, the economy is so close to producing at maximum output that inflation has become more of a worry. Growth that is too fast is now as dangerous as growth that is too slow. "The risks are not one-sided" any more, Mr. Blinder said.
 
A Consistent Policy
 Robert E. Rubin, the head of the President's National Economic Council, said in a telephone interview today that American economic policy had been consistent since President Clinton won the election. The difference now, Mr. Rubin said, is that the American economy is much further along in the business cycle.
"When we took office, what we wanted to do was get a sustained recovery going, and that is what we have accomplished and put ourselves on a path that on average, over time, will produce solid growth and moderate inflation," he said.
As a result, Administration officials now pay more attention to inflation, although they continue to watch for signs of slowing growth, Mr. Rubin said.
"With growth now at a healthy rate, people are more focused on the issue of inflation than they were when growth was low," he said. "And as you would expect with higher growth, people expect slightly higher inflation, but they still expect inflation to be at moderate levels."
President Clinton's comments on interest rates have reflected the gradual shift within the Administration. He said in December that he thought it would be inappropriate for the Fed to raise interest rates. He accepted the Fed's first increase on Feb. 4, but said interest rates should not continue to rise. After the latest increase, on April 18, he had no criticisms, saying, "This is still within the range of interest rates that should not do anything to harm the economy."
 
A Transitory Effect
 Comments like the President's are the closest the Administration has come recently to trying to alter the overall level of domestic economic growth. Budget policy is virtually frozen for five years by the 1993 budget act, Mr. Blinder said on Friday. The Treasury Department's efforts to prop up or drive down the dollar have only a transitory effect unless backed up by changes in interest rates. And the Fed controls interest rates, tolerating little interference from the White House.
Some economists say the Administration should have abandoned sooner its enthusiasm for low interest rates and a low dollar. "The inconsistencies of its policies are coming back to haunt it," said Michael J. Boskin, who was the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Bush Administration. "You cannot be telling the Fed to keep interest rates low and talk down the dollar simultaneously, which puts upward pressure on interest rates."
The shift on interest rates and the dollar is likely to restrain inflation, but also slow economic growth, economists said. "I would taper down the growth in the latter half of 1994 and in early 1995 because of their new policy," said Neal M. Soss, who watches the Fed for the CS First Boston Corporation.
 
The Rate-Dollar Conundrum
 A low dollar makes American cars and other exports cheaper in foreign markets, stimulating growth. Low interest rates encourage banks to make many loans that also fuel economic growth.
But a low dollar can also foster inflation, by making it more expensive for Americans to buy imported products like French cheeses and Italian shoes. A falling dollar puts pressure on the Fed to raise interest rates to prop up the dollar and forestall inflation.
A preoccupation with the economy's maximum capacity for producing goods and services has guided the Clinton Administration's new outlook, several officials said in interviews during the last two weeks.
The ceiling on economic growth is the nation's maximum level of sustained economic output, when most factories are operating at full capacity and most workers have jobs. As long as the country's economy is not operating at its full potential, the economy can grow quickly by putting factories and people to work. Total economic output then rises quickly.
But when the economy reaches maximum capacity, it can only grow as fast as the maximum capacity grows. The capacity grows at the rate that new workers join the labor force and existing workers increase their productivity and output.
Most economists say this rate of increase in the economy's capacity is slower than the pace at which the economy is likely to grow for the rest of the year.
 
A Political Implication
 Mr. Blinder said in a recent interview that he thought the economy was between three-quarters of a percentage point and one and a half percentage points short of reaching its maximum capacity. The maximum capacity appears to be growing at a rate of 2.5 percent a year, so economic growth will have to slow to that pace when the economy reaches the ceiling, he said.
Those estimates have a very strong political implication that is broadly shared and understood both within the White House and the Fed. Through simple arithmetic, they imply that the economy has only about 9 percentage points of growth left through the 1996 Presidential elections, and that the Administration may want to conserve some of that growth for 1996, rather than splurging in 1994 and 1995.
The arithmetic shows that economic potential will grow by 2.5 percentage points a year through 1996, or a total of 7.5 points (or a little more because of the compounding effect, like interest in a bank account). Add to that the maximum of one and a half percentage points of growth remaining before the ceiling is reached and as little as 9 points of growth remain. "I think that's a reasonable way to think about it," Mr. Blinder said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY; CREDIT; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ECONOMIC GROWTH (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



170 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2392 words

HEADLINE: Fast-Lane Killer: A special report.;
Heroin Finds a New Market Along Cutting Edge of Style

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 4

 BODY:
The rising young fashion photographer was acting jumpy. He scratched the label off a beer bottle and skittered his fingers over the buttons of a cellular phone without ever dialing. For more than an hour this evening he'd been marking time in a dark and narrow bar in Hollywood called simply The Room.
No sign identifies the place, and its entrance is off an alley lined with garbage Dumpsters. Yet, far from turning off customers, the furtive underground atmosphere has made The Room a voguish hangout. 
 Finally, around midnight, the man the photographer had been waiting for arrived. There was a discreet exchange: $100 for a tiny packet of the new drug in town. The photographer and two of his friends -- a director and an actor -- disappeared behind a velvet curtain across the entrance to the ladies room. When the photographer emerged, he was smiling the smile of feeling no pain.
The new drug is heroin, which, a generation ago, may have evoked the specter of the ultimate dead end. But for users too tender to remember, it is once again unfolding its black crepe wings.
"It's exploding," said Peter Bill, the 29-year-old son of the director Tony Bill and an observer of the scene who club-hops many nights a week with young Hollywood. "At just about every party I've been at in the last six months, whether public or private, whether early or late, there is a definite bitter almond smell," the scent of heroin being smoked.
Heroin use, some drug-abuse experts say, is reminiscent of the pattern set by cocaine in the late 1970's and early 80's, when cocaine was the cocktail of choice for the chic, before it filtered down to the mass of urban professionals and, then, in its cheapest and most destructive form, as crack, to the poor. High-grade heroin that can be smoked rather than injected has caught on, on both coasts, in circles whose habits often set trends -- young people piloting the fast lane in the film, rock and fashion industries.
"Heroin is prevalent in all those areas just the way cocaine was 15 years ago," said Dr. Robert B. Millman, director of substance-abuse programs at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. A lot of the new users "skipped cocaine or had a brief flirtation," he said, "but it had lost a lot of its glamour, whereas heroin reacquired its romance."
"Heroin was seen as dark, inner-city, secretive," Dr. Millman said. "The romance obscured the reality that this drug is thoroughly horrible."
 
The Numbers
Surging Use By the Affluent
 Visits to hospitals for heroin-related emergencies rose to 30,800 nationwide in the first half of 1993, from 21,400 in the first half of 1992, an increase of 44 percent, according to the Federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Law-enforcement officials have reported signs of increased heroin use across the socio-economic spectrum, in some small cities as well as large, but the most surprising surge, experts say, is among the educated and affluent.
Dr. Millman, who oversees treatment for about 600 patients in New York City, said, "In the last year there has been a remarkable increase in the number of people who are doing heroin in the middle and upper classes."
Recently, his programs have treated a feature film director, a partner in a corporate law firm, a famous model and a fashion designer. The much publicized deaths of River Phoenix from an overdose of heroin and cocaine in October, and of Kurt Cobain, who had heroin in his bloodstream when he shot himself to death last month, have apparently done little to slow the scene.
"It's one of those things that never actually went away but for some reason it's back as the hip thing to do," said Detective Dave Valentine of the Los Angeles Sheriff's Office, who investigates drug use on the Sunset Strip. He said there was no specific operation directed at heroin, which is still less common than cocaine and methamphetamine.
The reasons cited for heroin's return range from declining prices on the global market, to amnesia about its human devastation, to images in films, magazines and music videos implying that, as a talked-about article in Vogue by Charles Gandee recently put it, "It's hip to be high."
In Southeast Asia and Latin America, bumper crops of heroin-yielding poppies have led to falling prices and increasing purity. As recently as 10 years ago, bags of heroin bought on the street were only about 4 percent pure, according to the Justice Department, but today the average purity is 65 percent. The elevated potency makes it possible to get high by snorting or smoking the drug rather than injecting it. In the past the needle scared off many would-be users, a fear reinforced by the AIDS epidemic. Now that barrier has fallen.
In the trendy precincts of Los Angeles, the preferred way of using heroin is to heat it, either as a powder or a less refined resin known as tar, on a piece of silver foil. As the heroin liquifies and evaporates, users inhale the smoke through a rolled-up foil straw held in the mouth. It's called "chasing the dragon," an image conjured up by the dance with the straw as the user sucks up the curling smoke. The practice has spawned an underground fashion, dragons emblazoned on baseball caps and shirts, which have been spotted on the Venice boardwalk and on Hollywood Boulevard.
In New York City, by several accounts, heroin is less common than on the West Coast, appealing typically to longtime cocaine abusers who have found that it eases the jangled nerves and depression that often accompany the end of a cocaine binge.
"I still see people doing the uptown thing, which is cocaine," said an owner of a popular SoHo bar. "If people say, 'We're going uptown,' it means blow. And 'downtown' is heroin."
The new means of imbibing and the new slang are insidious, Mr. Bill said, because they let people deny they are really on a road to junkiedom. Mr. Bill, who says he spent more than two years in private treatment at a cost of $150,000 to his family to kick a heroin addiction, added, "The justification and the rationalization are incredible."
Degrees of addiction, Dr. Millman said, fall along a continuum from a small number of "controlled users" who get high once or twice a week, maintaining jobs and busy routines, to a much larger number of compulsive daily users in the process of self-destructing. Users develop a tolerance that demands strikingly larger doses to achieve the same effect. Despite the new purity, many are eventually driven to upgrade from snorting and smoking to injecting the drug.
"They think they can control heroin the way they can control cocaine, but they can't," Dr. Millman said. "Heroin is much more profound in causing a chronic dependency."
 
The Aura
From Tawdry Past To Chic Present
 In the 80's, cocaine and crack were the focus of an unrelenting obloquy in a national war on drugs. Heroin, which had been the leading cause of death among young men in New York City in the late 60's, slid into relative obscurity, along with the sad and tawdry image of the ghetto user with track-marked arms.
As the drug lost its stigma, it acquired a pedigree of authenticity, primarily among middle-class whites pursuing the cutting edge in the arts. They rediscovered its time-worn image, from the era of Charlie Parker to that of Keith Richards, as a drug for stylishly tortured souls. The re-glamorization of heroin is now appearing everywhere, from alternative music to the fashion runways.
In San Francisco, the names of underground bands like Pale Horse and Morphine pay homage to the drug. In the music video of the Black Crowes' 1993 song "Sometimes Salvation," Sofia Coppola is an addict in a tiger-print coat who gets her "salvation" in the form of a fix in a picturesquely seedy tenement.
Two films by Gus Van Sant, talismans of young Hollywood, are often cited as giving addiction a world-weary romance: "Drugstore Cowboy," with Matt Dillon pulling a series of pharmacy heists, and "My Own Private Idaho," in which Keanu Reeves slums among drug-using runaways like River Phoenix.
"I thought they really glamorized addiction," Michael Hill, an A & R executive with Warner Brothers Records, said of the films. "Certainly the one with River Phoenix took it beyond glamorizing to really mythologizing it."
Mr. Van Sant did not return calls seeking a response.
Corinne Day, a leading fashion photographer, has shot the waifish model Kate Moss for British Vogue lolling vacantly around an apartment with spilled ashtrays and old coffee cups. In the taste for the emaciated, hollow-cheeked look, some social critics see an allusion to hard drugs.
The news media, too, is accused of making heroin exciting with reports of its return. "To talk about it as chic is a come-on, which got us into so much trouble with cocaine," said Dr. Herbert D. Kleber of Columbia University, a top anti-drug official in the Bush Administration.
 
The Attitude
Fueled by Fame And Insecurity
 If cocaine, a stimulant whose effects are hyper-alertness and paranoia, was emblematic of the high-flying 80's, heroin, too, seems to have caught on in part because it speaks of the moment. It is a downer for the neo-beatnik esthetic prized by certain young people in the 90's, an anti-yuppie drug that produces feelings of satiation and lassitude.
"It seems like heroin has more soul to it, whereas coke is total 80's, Studio 54, glitter," said a recovering heroin user from Los Angeles, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to protect her job as a producer at a cable-television network. Erin Culley, a 30-year-old writer for US magazine, who once shared a house with Perry Ferrel, the founder of Jane's Addiction, a band named for a heroin habit, said: "My generation is the first to not have a life style richer than our parents. There's a malaise. This is a very numbing drug. There's something alluring about its decadence."
The same fashionable nihilism fuels much of alternative rock, where heroin, in its most recent incarnation, first appeared. Since 1987, the toll of underground rockers who have died from narcotics use includes Hillel Slovak of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Will Shatter of Flipper, Charles Ondras of Unsane and Stefanie Sargent of Seven Year Bitch.
In Seattle, heroin found fertile soil in the grunge movement. The death from overdose in 1990 of Andrew Wood, the leader of Mother Love Bone, led his surviving bandmates to form Pearl Jam. Kurt Cobain's love-hate relationship with heroin was well documented, and after his death, Courtney Love, his widow, accused Seattle of being a mecca for the drug.
But it isn't fair to single out Seattle. "I would say just about everybody I hang out with uses," said a bartender at a music club in San Francisco, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. She says her friends are mainly musicians with time on their hands. "Like, 15 of us will be in my apartment for four days, everybody using," she said.
Dealers, like pizza deliverers, bring the drugs to her door. "If they don't hear from you in a couple of days, they call," she said. "They're worried about their business, which is booming as far as I can tell."
From alternative music, heroin crossed over to young Hollywood, those familiar with the scene say. In clubs in and around the Sunset Strip, actors and studio executives in their 20's mix with musicians.
The passion and commitment of grunge appeals to actors made insecure by the seeming superficiality of their success. "They're in a world where they're getting a lot of money, and their self-doubts tell them they're getting rich because of their cheekbones," said Jonathan Roberts, a Los Angeles-based screenwriter. "You become consumed with doubts about your own authenticity and look for authenticity in areas that are, unfortunately, cliches, such as the heroin-using artist. Living closer to the edge somehow makes you more than just a pampered Hollywood pretty boy."
 
The Users
Doing Favors, Looking Terrible
 By all accounts, the death of Mr. Phoenix caused few to question their own hard-drug use. "This stuff is definitely on the upswing," said the dealer who delivered the heroin to the fashion photographer at The Room. He said he had about 20 regular customers, including an actor once nominated for an Academy Award.
Indistinguishable from the other 20-ish patrons in the bar, he said he had a day job as a furniture industry executive and was not moving drugs for the money. He would be out club-hopping anyway. He saw himself performing a service so users did not have to drive to seedy parts of town and buy on the streets. "It's almost like a favor that I do," he said.
But the San Francisco bartender would disagree. She said she first snorted the drug two years ago, not long after moving from Long Island, where she grew up, to Los Angeles, where she took a job in the music industry. "It was incredible you could do so little and get so high," she recalled.
Soon, however, she wasn't getting high enough by snorting or smoking and began to shoot up. Thinking she could shake her habit by changing cities, she moved to San Francisco, but her habit followed. It grew into a $50 a day expense. She wasn't doing it to feel good anymore, just to be able to get to work in the morning.
"It got to the point where I would get an hour off between shifts, run home to get high and come back," she said. "It got to the point where I lost 15 pounds in the last three months. I wasn't looking too good. It showed really bad, especially in the morning. Your eyes are all swollen. You look like a drug addict. People I'm serving on the other side of the bar who don't look so damn good themselves are telling me I look terrible."
She has tried to kick it. "What happens is you just don't sleep," she said. "It's very, very physical. You want to pull your muscles off your bones. You lie there looking at the clock, watching hours and hours go by. You start hitting the walls.
"I'm living in an apartment with no furniture, nothing hanging on the windows. I have a cat who I love to death and I'm not even taking care of. When was last time I changed the litter box? I don't have time. I'm too busy getting high.
"All of a sudden all the money you've saved and worked hard for is gone. I'm 30 years old. It would be nice to have a nice home and things."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The smell of heroin has been present "at just about every party I've been at in the last six months," says 29-year-old Peter Bill, who club-hops in Hollywood and says he spent more than two years in drug treatment. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times); At left, packets used in street sales of heroin show some of the new slang, like "downtown." At right, some social critics have seen an allusion to hard drugs in the waif look of models like Kate Moss. (British Vogue; Ted Morrison for The New York Times) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORM AS (64%); LOS ANGELES SHERIFF'S OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES SHERIFF'S OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SURVEYS AND SERIES; HEROIN HEROIN (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); COCAINE (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); TRENDS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (69%); HOSPITALS (64%); 

PERSON: GABRIEL, TRIP KATE MOSS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



171 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Residents of Dying California Town See Future in a Prison

DATELINE: WEED, Calif.

 BODY:
The residents who remain in this dying lumber town say they have two choices: either leave before the town becomes a glorified truck stop or strive for a future. And the most promising future for them, they say, is prisons.
Officials in Weed, population 3,100, are hoping to make their town at the foot of Mount Shasta the home to a 4,000-inmate maximum security prison. Officials say a new prison would bring jobs and money for the city coffers. 
 The prison's appeal is simple in a town where cutbacks in the lumber industry have left unemployment at 20 percent and residents have to drive eight miles to buy socks, said Neva Barnett, a city councilwoman.
"Prisons don't go out of business," she said.
But not all people in Siskiyou County, where Weed is situated, share the town's aspirations. These opponents say it is hard to imagine a prison at the northern base of the majestic Mount Shasta, an ice-covered volcano jutting 11,000 feet into the air that has enchanted writers, artists and spiritual seekers.
 
A Spiritual Haven
 They argue that a prison would destroy the area's laid-back way of life, attract urban problems and scare off tourists. Some have also voiced concern that a prison might hurt Mount Shasta's reputation as having spiritual powers. In 1987, at a time of "harmonic convergence" when the planets were aligned, 40,000 people gathered at the volcano to pray for "planetary purification."
But scenery does not pay the bills, Weed officials say. A prison would provide 900 construction jobs and 800 to 1,200 full-time jobs on completion, half of which would go to experienced prison employees from outside the area. Corrections officials estimate that the prison would create 400 to 600 service jobs in town.
Jan Williams, an official at California's Department of Corrections, says the state is looking for six new prison sites now to ease crowding at other prisons. She said 17 additional sites might be needed within five years.
Over the past year, Ms. Williams has visited small towns and distributed promotional materials showing beautiful sunsets over prisons and industrious inmates building schools.
It used to be that no one wanted a prison, Ms. Williams said. "Now, we get calls from communities we've never heard of," she said.
Both sides of the prison issue have lobbied the Siskiyou County Board of Supervisors, which will vote on Wednesday on whether to allow Weed to have its prison.
Opponents of the prison, like Richard McFarland, who runs a lumber recycling company in nearby McCloud, say Weed should either die or become more creative about how it survives. Weed has a company town mentality, he said. In its heyday in the 1970's, the International Paper Company owned the hospital and department store. Even Weed's odd name derives from Abner Weed, the company boss.
 
'They Saw Dollars'
 "I can understand wanting to be taken care of by mother company," Mr. McFarland said. "They saw dollar bills and went off panting."
Missi Gillespie, who owns a spiritual book store in the village of Mount Shasta, said Weed residents were short-sighted about the future.
In the past month, Weed residents have held prison rallies and barbecues to raise money to hire a public relations concern to argue their case. A sign in a bakery window reads, "A Depressed Economy Needs Corrections." One prison supporter has spray-painted "Prison -- Yes" in hot pink on a boulder near Mount Shasta.
Ms. Barnett considers herself among those who think Mount Shasta "has an energy field that can create a higher level of consciousness in people."
She added, "I feel there are no better people to give that to than prisoners."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (60%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEED (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS PRISONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); COUNTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (63%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); 

PERSON: ABNER WEED (94%); JAN WILLIAMS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



172 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Racial Slur Causes Political Turmoil for Democrats in Northwest

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SPOKANE, Wash. May 7

 BODY:
A racial slur directed at Asians 18 months ago has turned into political quicksand for this state's Democratic Party, which has been sucked into deeper trouble with every effort to extricate itself from the controversy.
Last Tuesday the party dropped plans to hold this year's state convention in Spokane, where two local party officials have been accused of calling Hong Kong businessmen "chinks." 
 Denny Yasuhara of Spokane, a spokesman for the Japanese-American Citizens League, called the remark "a disgrace to American politics and the Democratic Party."
Last November the league filed a Federal civil rights suit, seeking to dismantle the Spokane County Democratic Party and, backed by black and Hispanic civil rights groups, demanded the resignations of the officials accused of making the slur.
The uproar began in November 1992, when members of the board of the Spokane County Democratic Central Committee were discussing where to hold a fund-raising event for Mike Lowry, the newly elected Governor. One suggested Spokane's landmark Davenport Hotel, which is owned by Hong Kong investors.
Several of the 22 people present said a longtime party worker, Marge Davis, referred to the owners as "those chinks." Others in attendance said the slur was repeated by John Workland, an official of the Hotel and Restaurant Workers Union.
Susan Strauss, a 57-year-old businesswoman from Spokane, says she immediately objected to the term but was rebuked. She told Carl Maxey, a Spokane lawyer long active in civil rights causes, about the incident, and he called on Governor Lowry to intervene.
But the Governor called the slur a local matter, for which Mr. Maxey dubbed him a "cowardly lion," and many people, particularly among Seattle's Asian-Americans, expressed outrage.
Ms. Davis at first admitted making the remark, then denied it. Mr. Workland denied using the term. Both refused demands that they resign from the party board.
 
An Insulting Bow
 Three months later hostilities escalated at a meeting to mend fences. When Chris Marr, a Japanese-American, refused to shake hands with the party's newly elected vice chairwoman, Betty Drumheller, she bowed sarcastically to him and said that had he been white she would have given him a profane gesture with her middle finger.
Ms. Drumheller quickly apologized and later attended racial sensitivity courses sponsored by the party.
Last week, party leaders decided to move the convention to Richland, which is 120 miles away but still east of the mountains that have historically divided this state into distinct political entities and cultures.
The party has traditionally alternated its biennial June convention. In Presidential election years, it is held on the west side of the state; in off-years, it has always been in Spokane, the hub of Eastern Washington.
The Spokane Chamber of Commerce estimated that the loss of the convention, with its 3,000 delegates, party members and guests cost the city economy at least $800,000, and organized labor, a main party constituency, was angered by the transfer because Richland has no hotel that employs union workers.
Richland has no convention center, so the Democrats will gather in the high school auditorium, creating another problem.
The city's claim to fame is the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, which built the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki. The city commemorated the event by adopting the name "The Bombers" for its high school athletic teams, and when Japanese-American delegates enter the auditorium they will be greeted by a large mosaic of a mushroom cloud.
"This has just been a political headache I'd like to rid ourselves of," said the weary state party chairman, Charles Rolland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (99%); 

CITY: SPOKANE, WA, USA (98%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; JAPANESE-AMERICAN CITIZENS LEAGUE DAVENPORT HOTEL (67%); HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (55%); HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; JAPANESE-AMERICAN CITIZENS LEAGUE HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (55%); HOTEL & RESTAURANT WORKERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (99%); WASHINGTON, USA (99%); SPOKANE, WA, USA (98%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: JAPANESE-AMERICANS; ASIAN-AMERICANS POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); FUNDRAISING (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BETTY DRUMHELLER (60%); JOHN WORKLAND (55%); MARGE DAVIS (55%); MIKE LOWRY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



173 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: January's Cold Hitting Farmers Now

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LIVINGSTON, N.Y., May 6

 BODY:
Russell Bartolotta stood on the edge of his cherry orchard here today, examining the nearly bare limbs of his sweet cherry trees.
Instead of the beautiful white blossoms that usually cover the trees, only tiny green leaves were visible. Mr. Bartolotta pulled one of the buds that would normally have produced a blossom in early May and a cherry in June. It crumpled in his hand. 
 "They're all dead," he said.
The crop fell victim to temperatures that dropped to 25 and 30 degrees below zero in January. That cold spell killed the buds on many of the fruit trees in the Hudson Valley and other parts of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
"There will be no sweet cherries, peaches or nectarines in the whole valley this year," Mr. Bartolotta said.
 
'Not One Peach Bud'
 Mr. Bartolotta, who with his brothers operates Klein's Kill Fruit Farm here in Columbia County, has 600 peach trees covering six acres.
"There's not one peach bud in the whole orchard," he said.
However, the hardier fruits like apples, the major crop in the Hudson Valley, and some varieties of pears and plums, did survive, said Craig Telgheder, the fruit expert of Cornell University's Cooperative Extension Service in Columbia County.
Mr. Telgheder estimated that one-third of the area's apple crop had been lost to the cold, along with 50 percent of the pears, 60 to 70 percent of the plums and prunes, all of the peaches, nectarines and sweet cherries, and all but a handful of tart cherries.
 
Apple Trees in Bloom
 Despite the losses, the apple trees are coming into bloom in the area this weekend, their white blossoms visible to motorists along Routes 9 and 9H.
Like the other farmers, Lee D. Brown, who operates the Cherry Ridge Farm south of Hudson, lost his sweet cherries and peaches. But unlike the others, his tart cherries survived because they grow on a western slope facing the Hudson River, which moderates the cold weather.
The valley's other major early crop, strawberries, which grow close to the ground, was not affected because they were covered and protected by a blanket of snow for most of the winter.
 
Imported Fruit
 For consumers who frequent farm stands and greenmarkets, the crop disaster will mean little locally grown fruit early in the season. However, supermarket customers will still be able to purchase sweet cherries, shipped in from Washington, the leading cherry state in the nation, and peaches from Georgia, South Carolina and southern New Jersey.
For New York fruit growers, though, it will mean a substantial economic loss, mainly of sales at farm stands and pick-it-yourself orchards where the best sellers are sweet cherries in June and peaches in July, before the apple harvest begins.
Mr. Bartolotta estimated that he would lose $60,000 in sales at his farm stand. At LoveApple Farm in Claverack, which specializes in peaches, Chris Loken, its operator, said receipts at his farm stand would drop about $200,000.
Mr. Loken has begun to replace some of the older peach trees damaged by the frost. He has put in 300 to 400 new trees, he said, but they will not produce fruit for several years. He said he plans to open his farm stand as usual in June, importing some fruit for regular customers.
"At best, it's going to be a break-even season, but it's important to keep open to retain your customers," he said.
The crop damage from the cold and snow was so severe throughout New York State that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo appealed to Washington to designate eight counties -- Broome, Columbia, Oneida, Orange, Oswego, Suffolk, Ulster and Wayne -- as disaster areas. If so designated, farmers in those counties would be eligible for low-interest Federal loans.
 
All Over the Northeast
 The fruit growers reported that the damage to trees from the cold weather extended from Connecticut through New York, northern New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio and southern Michigan.
In Connecticut, John Lyman Jr. of the Lyman Orchards in Middlefield reported damage in the northeastern and northwestern parts of the state. His own farm in central Connecticut came through with "a reasonably strong bloom," he said.
In New Jersey, too, there was a geographic dividing line between damage and a good crop -- an east-west line roughly parallel to Interstate 78, said Skeeter Kielblock, operator of the Hillview Farm in Meyersville, near the line.
"We have about 30 to 40 percent of a crop," he said.
But the picture was different farther south. "In northern New Jersey we had some substantial damage, but in the south, where most of the peaches are grown, the bloom looks pretty good," said Robert Battaglia of the State Agricultural Statistics Service in Trenton.
In the Hudson Valley, the farmers, inured to blows from the weather, took their losses philosophically. "It's not going to be a bumper year," Mr. Loken said, with a grin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig Telgheder, of Cornell University's Cooperative Extension Service in Columbia County, N.Y., and Russell Bartolotta checked the buds on Mr. Bartolotta's damaged peach trees at his farm in Livingston. The trees, like many in the Hudson Valley, are victims of the frigid weather in January. (Dan Cronin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; WEATHER; APPLES; PEACHES; NECTARINES; CHERRIES; PEARS ; PLUMS FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); APPLE ORCHARDS (89%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (89%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



174 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2025 words

HEADLINE: Overcrowded Vietnam Is Said to Face Catastrophe

SERIES: Vietnam Revisited: A periodic report.

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE, Special to The New York Times; The writer of this article covered Vietnam during the war years, successively for The Associated Press, ABC News and The New York Times. Now a senior science writer for The Times, he was the paper's last bureau chief in Saigon when the city fell in 1975. He spent April in Vietnam.

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam

 BODY:
Their streets are blocked by peddlers, beggars and parked motorbikes, their houses are overflowing with young children and visiting relatives, and even after death the urns containing their ashes must compete for space on the crowded shelves of Buddhist pagodas.
Vietnam is bursting at the seams with people, and unless the nation can change its demographic, social and economic trends, the Vietnamese will face a catastrophe, many experts believe. 
 As the population booms, the Communist Government seems to be floundering in its efforts to balance the demands of a free-market economy against the state supervision and support needed to maintain national social and economic cohesion.
Liberalized Government economic policy has attracted foreign investment and allowed shopkeepers to fill their stores with imported television sets and motorbikes. But predatory packs of thieves roam Ho Chi Minh City -- which is still called Saigon, except in official usage -- unchecked by police forces that are paid so little that the officers must extort bribes to feed their families.
Public health, education, road-building and other nation-building pursuits have been starved of money and official support. The Government has moved at glacial speed to meet a growing need for new laws on taxation, trade, banking, traffic and countless other activities.
Many Vietnamese experts say that a lack of managerial skill is the country's most serious shortcoming and that because of the decline in the country's education system, new managers are scarcer than ever. Because improvement of the education system depends partly on recruiting effective new managers, the country is locked in a vicious cycle, some say.
Since 1975, when the "American War" came to an end, Vietnam's population has increased by more than 60 percent. This impoverished land, which is only about the size of New Mexico, now has more than 72 million people, making it the 12th most populous country on earth. Demographers predict that by 2025 the population will reach 168 million, a staggering number considering the limited space and resources available.
Hanoi has mounted a campaign to reduce the birth rate, and most state and recently privatized businesses now threaten to fire any worker who has more than two children. Billboards that graphically depict the use of condoms, intrauterine devices and vasectomies adorn intersections in cities and towns.
But in a country where two-thirds of the population is still agricultural, such advertising has limited effect. "We city dwellers don't need to be told to have only two children," a shopkeeper said. "Most of us already use birth control."
Throughout Asia, farmers traditionally have large families to share the labor of growing and harvesting rice, and to make up for high infant mortality and short life expectancy. Vietnamese farmers, by all accounts, have largely ignored the official injunction against large families.
And many farmers have recently taken to moonlighting in the towns and cities to earn money for Japanese motorbikes and electronic gadgets. Between crops, many farmers migrate to towns to take temporary jobs as bicycle-taxi drivers or manual laborers, further swelling city populations.
 
Teeming City Lacks Many Public Services
 The population of Saigon in 1975 was about 2.5 million, but today this largest city in Vietnam has 4.5 million permanent residents and another half million temporary residents, most of them migrant farmers.
During nearly two decades of privation under Communism, many Vietnamese accumulated savings they are now spending on imported motorbikes, televisions, video recorders, boom boxes, refrigerators and other luxuries from the industrial world. Few buy automobiles, for which the import duty is 170 percent, but most Vietnamese families own at least one motorbike, costing around $2,100.
Although Vietnam's people have begun to acquire some of the products associated with prosperity, the Government remains too poor to sustain public services.
Despite the policy of doi moi -- renewal -- introduced in 1986 and the rapid recent transition from state socialism to a chaotic market economy, the Hanoi Government has yet to learn how to collect the taxes it needs to pay for roads, railways, clean water, health care, industrial research and an honest police force.
Officials acknowledge that Government salaries are so low (a police officer is paid about $16 a month and a teacher makes about $25) that graft and corruption are far more widespread than they were under the notoriously corrupt Saigon Government up to 1975.
 
Medical Care And Schools Scarce
 Medical care in many parts of the country is virtually nonexistent, even though some 300 doctors are currently unemployed.
Dr. Do Hong Ngoc, director of health information and education for Ho Chi Minh City, said about 300 doctors graduate from medical schools in southern Vietnam each year, but to work they must spend their first three years as Government employees, paid $25 a month. If a young doctor can survive for three years on such a salary, he or she is then permitted to go into private practice and make a decent living.
"Starting doctors can make much more money as traders and business people, so many of them abandon their medical careers," Dr. Ngoc said. "Young people look upon our generation of doctors and scientists as poor people, not to be emulated."
The same problems plague public education.
The Vietnam News Service, a Government agency, recently reported that in the mountainous central province of Gia Lai, 203 hamlets are without schools. Nationwide, a report by the Ministry of Education and Training estimated that about two million Vietnamese between the ages of 15 and 35 were unable to read or write, a marked decline in the literacy rate from what it was in 1975.
American visitors who knew Vietnam before the Communist victory in 1975 are startled these days to see the shoulders of most of the roads in southern Vietnam covered by golden kernels of rice drying in the sun. The new drying system is a symbol of both the promise and the potential catastrophe facing the desperately overcrowded country.
 
Rice Crop Booming; So Are Traffic Jams
 The Communist Government abandoned collectivized farming in 1988;, since then, land has been distributed by the state to small farmers under 20-year renewable leases. Rice production has boomed as a result, and once again Vietnam is a major exporter of rice, which helps to pay for the economic recovery.
But there is a debit side to this boom.
Before the 1975 "liberation," most privately owned farms were relatively large, but today the average farmer owns only a backyard garden or at most a few acres -- too little to waste on sun-drying rice. The rice, nevertheless, must be dried, so farmers have taken to spreading out their grain along asphalt-paved road shoulders. Foreign importers of Vietnamese rice increasingly complain that it contains bits of asphalt, debris from the wheels of trucks and motorbikes, and the droppings of birds, dogs and farm animals.
The population boom and the consequent crowding and elbowing touches every facet of life.
Townspeople laugh ruefully at their monumental motorbike traffic jams, among the worst in the world. But the casualty rate is no laughing matter.
During the first three months of this year there were 396 serious accidents in Saigon alone, causing 133 deaths, injury to 434 people and heavy damage to 498 vehicles. Stoplights are few and far between, and even when they work, many people simply ignore them. The hardy pedestrian bent on crossing a street customarily half closes his eyes, smiles benignly and walks into the thick of the beeping, yelling, roaring maelstrom.
The pedestrian usually survives, but drivers sometimes come to grief. There is no law requiring motorbike users or bicyclists to wear helmets, and no seat-belt law for car drivers. Owners of most motorbikes, those with engines rated at 50 cubic centimeters or less, do not need drivers' licenses, and many bikers are downright reckless.
The police often stop them -- they stop even the most law-abiding drivers several times a week -- but for a bribe of a dollar or two, a driver is sped on his or her way without undue inconvenience.
 
Gap Between Rich And Poor Widening
 The Government has given top priority to stimulating development by creating a market economy and by attracting extensive foreign investment and technical help. But this has created huge problems that are worsened by the population explosion.
One problem cited by Deputy Foreign Minister Le Mai is the widening gap between rich and poor, a direct affront to the ideals of socialism.
There are painfully apparent differences between the standards of living of relatively wealthy entrepreneurs and the street people who sell lottery tickets, postcards and stolen watches.
Huge families that live in the tropical squalor of crumbling brick-and-stucco buildings have almost nothing in common with the brokers and business people who are making fortunes by arranging deals between newly privatized Vietnamese enterprises and foreign companies.
There is also a large and potentially dangerous economic gulf between northern and southern Vietnam, which in many ways remain separate countries despite the postwar unification. Foreign investors still feel more comfortable dealing with enterprises in the former South Vietnam than they do in the north, a fact reflected by the substantially larger investments being made in and around Saigon.
Many Saigonese believe that within sharply defined limits, Hanoi has decided to leave southern Vietnam to its own devices, provided that the southern part of the country continues to bring in the trade and investment essential to national development. Many Vietnamese say they feel more free in the south than in the north.
 
Foreign Criticism Not Appreciated
 But despite its zeal to join the developed, industrialized world, Vietnam is unwilling to accommodate pleas from the United States and other Western countries for greater toleration of Government critics.
"Human rights involve national perspective," Mr. Mai said in an interview. "The United States may be troubled, for example, by China's insistence on limiting families to two children. For their part, the Chinese may regard widespread gun ownership in the United States as a threat to human rights.
"As for Vietnam, we fully support human rights, but we oppose initiatives by outside nations to interfere in our internal affairs."
In fact, many foreign businessmen argue that Vietnam needs tougher legal and economic restraints, and that liberalization of human rights policies is not one of the country's immediate priorities.
"This country is out of control and just growing like Topsy," said an American trader, who spoke on condition that he not be identified. "There's no comprehensive system of law covering investment, taxes, mortgages, bankruptcy, insurance or the other cornerstones of a free-market economy. Most of all, this country needs law. And it needs to create the means of enforcing laws."
The fines imposed for civil infractions are tiny. The B.G.I. Tien Giang Company, a French-Vietnamese joint venture that makes beverages, was recently convicted of adulterating one of its products with saccharine -- a sweetener that is illegal in Vietnam. The company was fined the equivalent of about $100, a penalty several American businessmen called woefully inadequate.
"You can get away with almost anything in Vietnam if you have a few dollars to pay a tiny fine or pay someone off," an American said. "That's got to stop if this country wants to make real progress."
Most of all, Vietnamese leaders agree, there are too many Vietnamese, and a brake must be applied to the birth rate, which threatens to double the population in 28 years.
"We'll never apply the draconian measures used in China to curb population growth," said Nguyen Xuan Oanh, an economist and investment consultant. "But we've got to do something before it's too late."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vietnam may be heading for a social and an economic catastrophe. Although motorbikes have joined the bicycle traffic on Ho Chi Minh City's streets, the gap between rich and poor is widening. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Vietnam is bursting at the seams. Markets like this one in Ben Tre are crowded with people and goods, but the Government is unable to provide adequate medical care, education and other public services. (Malcolm Browne/The New York Times) (pg. 12)
 
Map of Vietnam highlighting Ho Chi Minh City (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TAXATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CHILDREN (90%); TRENDS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); FAMILY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CITIES (88%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); INFANT MORTALITY (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BRIBERY (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (72%); EXTORTION (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (67%); LEGISLATION (66%); TAX LAW (66%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (64%); RICE FARMING (60%); RELIGION (57%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



175 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Calls Budget Deal Too Costly

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 7

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo doused a tentative budget agreement between legislative leaders with icy water today, saying it would result in spending at least $150 million more than the state could afford this year and would leave a $500 million budget gap next year.
But legislative aides said their budget package would spend little more than Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders had agreed to allocate in a pact reached on April 1. 
 They speculated that the Governor's hostile reaction may have been provoked by the absence of several Cuomo initiatives from their plan, like construction of a special high school in Albany for exceptional math and science students. And they questioned why Mr. Cuomo was voicing criticism now when he has left much of the negotiating to the legislative leaders in recent weeks.
Mr. Cuomo said in a telephone interview from the Executive Mansion that he would veto such a budget if it were sent to him. But by angrily rejecting the deal today, he virtually insured that Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, and the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, a Republican, would have to resume negotiations.
 
Time, Too, Is Money
 The budget is five weeks late, and fiscal planning by local governments and nonprofit agencies has already been disrupted by delays in state payments. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, for instance, will have to present his first budget on Tuesday without knowing exactly how much money New York City can expect from the state.
In addition to counting on hundreds of millions of dollars in new state aid, Mr. Giuliani has decided on bond refinancing and other measures to help plug a budget deficit, mayoral aides said. [Page 31.]
The Governor, who has remained relatively even-tempered throughout this year's protracted budget fight, made it clear today that he had lost his patience. In addition to deriding the Legislature's spending plans, which he called irresponsible, he expressed outrage that legislative aides leaked details of the agreement to reporters on Friday before discussing them with him.
"They did something that was cheap, I think, but is customary," Mr. Cuomo said. "Having said they wouldn't do so, they leaked everything.
"What has happened here is they told one side of the story. The public has to know there is another side of the story, not only that the spending is excessive, and it is, but that maybe you shouldn't make the spending at all."
John E. McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Marino, said Mr. Cuomo was "making arguments that are totally baseless." He said, "Everything we've proposed is affordable."
Mr. Cuomo accused the legislative leaders of trying to accommodate constituents in an election year by spending beyond the state's capacity. He was particularly disturbed by a bailout for hospitals that would cost the state $18 million this year, and by a plan to carry out business tax cuts faster than he recommended. Cuomo aides said that the Legislature would also give more money to schools and to local governments than they had agreed to spend five weeks ago.
"All I know is that with a billion dollars more, they couldn't satisfy themselves in an election year," Mr. Cuomo said. "I am not going to, in what may be the final stage of my career, be selling out for votes. You can't do it. You have to pay for tax cuts."
But legislative aides charged today that Mr. Cuomo's response was also motivated by election-year politics. By using the lawmakers as a foil, they said, he was seeking to position himself as a fiscal conservative in a defensive battle against what he depicted as a spendthrift Legislature.
In seeking a fourth four-year term with dismal approval ratings, the Democratic Governor is considered highly vulnerable to Republican attacks on his stewardship of the state budget and the economy.
"I think he's looking to make himself a political victor in the context of a late budget," said one Assembly aide, who insisted on anonymity. "I really think this is Mario Cuomo the candidate and not Mario Cuomo the Governor speaking."
 
Smaller Items on the Table
 The agreement reached by Mr. Silver and Mr. Marino late this week covered major budget issues like tax cuts, aid to schools and fiscal relief for local governments. But the leaders were still negotiating smaller items, like how to expand the state's program of fingerprinting welfare recipients and whether to expand a state-subsidized health insurance program for poor children.
On Friday evening, they sent Mr. Cuomo's budget aides a synopsis of their accomplishments. It included details of a menu of tax cuts, many of which would take effect faster than Mr. Cuomo had recommended.
For instance, the legislative plan would phase out the 15 percent surcharge on the corporate income tax over three years, rather than the four years Mr. Cuomo proposed. It would also create an earned-income tax credit on the personal income tax that would be more generous than the one proposed by Mr. Cuomo.
The Governor said today that eliminating the corporate tax surcharge so quickly would leave the state with a $500 million budget gap next year. He said he would support such an acceleration only if it were offset by additional cuts in spending.
"If you want to speed it up, that's fine, but you have to pay for it," he said. "You'd need 15 percent growth in the economy to make it go away, and we're projecting 3. It's just irresponsible."
Mr. Cuomo also criticized the Legislature's plan to drive $145 million to hospitals, $18 million of it in state Medicaid spending, by changing the state's hospital reimbursement formula. Although the Legislature and the Governor increased hospital reimbursement rates late last year, hospital officials contend that their costs have grown because they are handling more complicated procedures than in the past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); VETO (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MATHEMATICS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



176 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Haim Bar-Lev Dies; Israeli General, 69

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, May 7

 BODY:
Haim Bar-Lev, an Israeli war hero and diplomat for whom a defensive line at the Suez Canal was named, died in a Tel Aviv hospital today, a hospital spokeswoman said. He was 69.
The hospital spokeswoman said the cause was apparently heart failure. 
 Mr. Bar-Lev, whose last post was as Israel's Ambassador in Russia, fought in Israel's independence war in 1948 and was deputy chief of staff to Yitzhak Rabin, now the Prime Minister, in the 1967 Middle East war.
He was an army general and the Chief of Staff of the army from 1968 to 1971, and built a line of fortified defense bunkers along the Sinai side of the Suez Canal that became known as the Bar-Lev line.
He entered politics in 1972 but rejoined the army during the 1973 Middle East war.
Before being appointed Ambassador to Russia in 1992, Mr. Bar-Lev had served as a Labor Party Member of Parliament, including Cabinet posts as Minister of Police as well as Minister of Trade and Industry and as acting Finance Minister. In the last two positions he worked to gain increased foreign investment in Israel. He became secretary general of the Israeli Labor Party in 1978.
Mr. Bar-Lev was admitted to hospital Tuesday after returning from Moscow complaining of general weakness. Medical tests showed he suffered from muscular dystrophy, the hospital said.
Mr. Bar-Lev was born in Austria and immigrated to Israel from Yugoslavia in 1939. After his military service, he graduated from Columbia University in New York and became an economist.
He is survived by his wife, Tamar, a son and a daughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); HOSPITALS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); IMMIGRATION (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (51%); GENETIC DISEASES (50%); 

PERSON: BAR-LEV, HAIM YITZHAK RABIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



177 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: WORLD CUP '94;
Romania's Other Revolution

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Romania, May 5

 BODY:
At the final match of the Romania Cup soccer tournament last weekend, an antiquated television camera roamed the sideline like some hulking metal insect, tattered sofa cushions lined metal benches in the press box, advertising placards promised soft drinks from the West while vendors hawked only the seeds of sunflowers and pumpkins, and police ringed the field wearing riot helmets and carrying batons.
When the match was over and a team from Transylvania, Gloria Bistrita, had won a surprising 1-0 victory over the university-affiliated Atomic Lions from Craiova, the police charged the disconsolate Craiova fans, clubbing them as they reached for jerseys being tossed over a fence, and later skirmishing with the supporters outside of the stadium. 
 Apparently, the Craiova fans had been taunting the police during the match, witnesses said. But if suspicion of authority hasn't lessened since the 1989 revolution that resulted in the overthrow and execution of the dictator Nicolae Ceausescu, Romanian soccer has changed dramatically as the national team prepares for World Cup '94 next month in the United States.
Notable for its absence from this final match was the traditional power Steaua Bucharest, the once indomitable army team formerly run by Ceausescu's son Valetin through shrewdness, threats and intimidation.
Missing, too, from this match were any of Romania's top players. Since the revolution, all but one of its stars have emigrated to play the regular season in Western Europe, escaping the economic paucity of Europe's poorest country other than Albania, where reform has been slow and uncertain under the government of President Ion Iliescu.
 
Training and Rewards
 Playing in such places as Italy and Spain and the Netherlands, Romania's stars have learned the necessity of rigorous training and the possibility of financial reward, a combination that makes the Romanians among the favorites to advance to the second round of the World Cup from a four-team group that includes the United States, Colombia and Switzerland.
The Romanians will travel to the United States to play soccer and pass around a symbolic tin cup, hoping that athletic success will attract American investment and soften the grave images that many Americans have of Romania -- the legacy of Communism, revolution, poverty and orphanages with children suffering from physical handicaps and AIDS.
The United States has restored most-favored-nation trading status to Romania, which offers a market of 23 million people, second only to Poland among the former Soviet satellites. Still, many Western analysts remain unconvinced about the commitment to economic and democratic reform.
Romania has avoided shock therapy, favoring instead a policy of economic gradualism; only 300 of 6,000 state-run companies have been privatized since free elections were held in 1992. It is a familiar lament in Bucharest that under the Communists there was money but no food and now there is food but no money. Enter the Romanian soccer team as ambassadors and spin doctors.
"If Romania does well in football, it will have an impact economically, politically and culturally," said Anghel Iordanescu, the coach of the national team. "Soccer, sport, is a better way than politics for diplomacy. Nadia Comaneci made more for the image of our country than Ceausescu."
 
30 Cents and a Dream
 On the wide, dusty boulevards of this fatigued capital, World Cup lottery tickets can be bought at small tables among the outdoor bazaars that offer books, breads, bananas, audio cassettes and other products of entry-level capitalism. For 30 cents, a buyer of a lottery ticket can win a trip to the United States to watch the World Cup, and if the recent past is any indication, perhaps to start a new life.
During the qualifying for the 24-team World Cup finals, Romanian fans developed a desperate habit of following the national team to a game in another country and applying for asylum, seeking to escape from government inertia, poverty and skyrocketing prices. In October 1992, about 300 fans followed the Romanian team to Belgium, and half of them did not return, said Radu Timofte, press officer for the Romanian Soccer Federation. A month later, 90 fans followed the team to Cyprus and 30 remained behind, Timofte said.
Some Romanians believe the United States has been overly cautious in granting visas for the World Cup. Gheorghe Fodoreanu, the official travel agent for the Romanian soccer federation, said that 3,400 tickets had been tentatively sold to Romanians for three first-round matches, but added he didn't know how many of the ticket-buyers would be able to obtain visas. The United States Embassy here denied that any special restrictions were being placed on Romanians.
Spectators are not the only ones leaving. An estimated 150 to 200 of Romania's top players now play professionally in other countries, where they receive higher-paying contracts. Gheorghe Hagi, a tempestuous midfielder who is Romania's biggest star, plays for Brescia in Italy. Florin Raducioiu is a striker for Italian champion AC Milan. While such top-flight international competition certainly benefits Romanian's national team, there is a concern that the domestic league is being stripped of its best young players. Many domestic teams, however, are struggling to survive without state support, and see little choice but to accept transfer fees for players who wish to take their careers elsewhere.
The years immediately following the revolution were particularly chaotic, soccer officials and journalists said. One team, Inter Sibiu, found itself without transportation, so it traded one of its players, Alexander Szenes, to a Hungarian club in 1991 in exchange for a bus, said Timofte. Another team, F. C. Bittor, traded a player to a Hungarian club for 10,000 bottles of soft drinks, Timofte said, and then resold the soda pop for cash in order to buy other players. A third Romanian team, Olimpia Satu Mare, venturing into the import-export business, traded a player to a Hungarian club for a large quantity of powder used for ice cream, Timofte said.
 
The Professional Route
 To contain this drain of talent, the Romanian league has gone professional, and done something that other businesses have been reluctant to do: privatize. Eight of the 18 teams are now assisted or owned by wealthy businessmen or a consortium of businesses, soccer officials said. One businessman, Gheorghe Paunescu, has promised each of the national team players a Mercedes for qualifying for the 1994 World Cup finals, said the striker Ilie Dumitrescu.
"We know he has had some problems, but we believe he will keep his promise," Dumitrescu said.
But money, or the lack of it, continues to be a problem. Four or five of the 18 teams in the top domestic league are in danger of folding, Timofte said. Further, a general corruption exists -- rigged matches, unscrupulous referees -- journalists, Dumitrescu and some soccer officials said. There is loose talk of organized crime controlling the domestic league, but facts are elusive and the press writes about the problem obliquely.
"It is hard to prove, but we all know the names," said Gheorghe Stanta, an influential journalist who is the editor of two magazines.
"In my opinion, it is the biggest problem of our soccer," Dumitrescu said of corruption. "The players suffer, and the first consequence is for the national team. If the domestic championship was healthy, the national team would be much better. In these conditions, the coach of the national team doesn't always know who is an actor and who is a player."
Yes, the problem exists, said Iordanescu, the coach, who has been applauded by journalists for fighting corruption. "But," he added, "show me where it doesn't."
True, corruption scandals have beset such soccer powers as France, Brazil and Italy. But it is difficult to imagine more spectacular abuses than those that occurred during the Ceausescu regime. Two stories, in particular, are told in soccer circles.
The club F.C. Olt from Ceausescu's hometown of Scornicesti once needed a victory by 17 goals to advance from Romania's third division to the second division. The team won, 18-0, averaging a goal every five minutes.
"This was Ceausescu's team; everyone knew what would happen," said Filip Romulus, a journalist with Football Plus, a soccer magazine. "If they needed 30 goals, they would have scored 30."
The second story involves a 1988 match between Steaua Bucharest, the army team controlled by Ceausescu's son Valentin and Dynamo, the team sponsored by the Securitate, Ceausescu's secret police. Late in the match, with the score tied at 1-1, Steaua scored, but the goal was disallowed because of a violation of the offsides rule.
When the referee would not relent, Valentin Ceausescu pulled his Steaua team off the field. Thinking they had won by forfeit, the Dynamo players picked up the cup trophy and went home. The next day, though, Steaua was mysteriously -- or not so mysteriously -- awarded the disputed goal and declared a 2-1 winner.
"They couldn't admit to losing," Mircea Lucescu, who coached Dynamo in that game and now coaches the Italian club Brescia, said of the Ceausescus. "They were afraid that losing a soccer match would be interpreted as political defeat."
When Steaua needed Hagi, Romania's top player, for an important European Cup match in 1987, he was taken from his club team on loan and never given back, Lucescu and journalists said. When midfielder Gheorghe Popescu declined to move from his Craiova team to Steaua, he was drafted into the army so that he was forced to play, at least temporarily, for Valentin Ceausescu's team.
 
Privileges for Players
 Even Valentin's enemies, though, concede that he knew how to build a soccer power. He offered players privileges that others were denied -- an apartment, a car, a chance to bring home video and audio equipment from international matches. He also oversaw vigorous training, and in 1986 Steaua Bucharest became the first Eastern bloc team ever to win the coveted European Champions Cup tournament.
Romania has qualified for five previous World Cup finals -- 1930, 1934, 1938, 1970 and 1990. The current team struggled during qualifying for the 1994 finals, though, and Coach Mircea Sandu was fired last June and replaced by Iordanescu, the longtime coach of Steaua Bucharest.
Romania won its final three games, qualifying for a trip to the United States with a 2-1 victory over Wales at Cardiff on Nov. 17, only to be sequestered at the Cardiff airport for four hours before being allowed to go to Bucharest.
An elderly man had been killed by a flare launched from the bleachers at the match, and the Romanian players, coaches, officials and fans were questioned as potential witnesses. Eventually, two Welshmen were arrested and charged in the killing.
Even though the Romanian team was four hours late arriving, 2,000 to 3,000 fans waited at the Bucharest airport in a numbing November cold that froze some of the champagne bottles kept on hand for the celebration, Timofte said.
"There are many problems economically in Romania, but for a little while the people can forget their difficulties and come back to soccer," Iordanescu said. "It's like a medicine."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The star of the Romanian team is Gheorghe Hagi, a 29-year-old midfielder who plays for Brescia in the Italian League. (Cris Cole/Allsport); Fans cheering the Romanian team at a recent match. Romania and the United States are in the same group. (Action Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ITALY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); 

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (58%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROMANIA; ROMANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ITALY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER) SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SOCCER (91%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RIOTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); SOFT DRINKS (57%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (50%); 

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE NICOLAE CEAUSESCU (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



178 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Trade Won't Guarantee Human Rights

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his plea that the Clinton Administration retain China's most-favored-nation status ("In China, Let Free Markets Aid Liberty," Viewpoints, April 24), Stephen Robert's expectations for democracy in China are much too high. While maintaining free trade is the proper approach in helping improve China's political situation, Mr. Robert's assumption that "economic freedom is rapidly thrusting China toward political freedom that will be . . . ingrained in the fabric of Chinese society" is dangerous. 
 Too many Americans are anxious to believe that political freedom based on the Western concept of human rights can be easily transported to other cultures once certain conditions are met. Mr. Robert assures us that "once a free market system is established, it is but a short step to political democracy." But he ignores one significant fact: before Communist rule, China existed for centuries as a free market economy without political freedom. Why would one suppose that individual freedom and rights would suddenly take hold in a nation where the people have been guided by collectivist Confucian principles for hundreds of years?
 
JAY GANGI
Westport, Conn., April 24
 
The writer, a marketing consultant, has lived in China and Taiwan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICS (71%); 

PERSON: ROBERT, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



179 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Badly Needed Intelligence

 BODY:
Not since the 1970's have so many Americans across the political spectrum asked so many anxious questions about what is known in Washington as "the intelligence community." Startling disclosures of Central Intelligence Agency involvement in assassination plots led in 1975 to inquiries by the Church and Pike committees, and by President Ford's Rockefeller Commission. One salutary result was the adoption of a new executive order against the dirtiest of tricks: plotting to kill a foreign leader. And the Senate and House for the first time attempted serious oversight of clandestine agencies.
 The time seems right, a generation later, for comparable full-scale inquiries into the role and performance of all U.S. intelligence services. At the least Americans deserve to know why security procedures failed to expose Aldrich H. Ames, a free-spending C.I.A. official who spied for Moscow from 1985 until his arrest in February. 
 But more broadly, it is the quality and predictive power of U.S. intelligence that calls out for scrutiny. The C.I.A., along with the Presidents it is supposed to inform, has been repeatedly caught unprepared: by the Shah's fall in Iran, by Saddam Hussein's seizure of Kuwait and, most dramatically, by the collapse of the Soviet Union.
 The most obvious question, given this track record, is why America still needs so many overlapping agencies -- C.I.A., National Security Agency and various Defense and State Department intelligence units -- in a world without a serious global adversary. Nobody can sanely doubt the continued need for intelligence gathering when so many nations have nuclear appetites and nuclear capacities. So long as terrorism is a threat, and ethnic wars tear nations apart, intelligence will be a vital element of national security.
 But do we still need an enormous secret bureaucracy, whose budget is still not divulged, designed to cope with a now-defunct enemy? Many Americans scarcely realize that the main sources of intelligence are not spies but satellite surveillance, intercepted signals and raw data harvested from open sources or routine reports filed by attaches in hundreds of embassies and consulates. These are the meat and potatoes of intelligence, but spy games, which commonly yield meager results at inordinate costs, grab the headlines.
 Americans may rightly wonder what interests are served by spending billions to penetrate foreign intelligence services, an activity that Washington condemns as reprehensible when other governments do the same unto us. Spy wars are a sideshow, of passionate interest to its actors but of only the most marginal significance for national policy.
 The Clinton Administration has so far been preoccupied with damage control on the Ames case. To head off legislation that would give the Federal Bureau of Investigation paramount responsibility for counterintelligence, President Clinton has signed an executive order naming his national security adviser, Anthony Lake, as head of a new board to oversee the detection of spies in the United States. But at best, this only closes a barn door. It fails altogether to deal with what's in the barn.
 Critics of the C.I.A. like Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York contend that the agency routinely inflated the economic and military strength of the old Soviet bloc while grossly underestimating the threat posed by Islamic fundamentalism. An authoritative Congressional inquiry, drawing on testimony of all current and former intelligence chiefs, would honor Mr. Clinton's promise of a more open government. More importantly, it would bring under democratic scrutiny a hidden bureaucracy whose task in peacetime needs vigorous and cost-conscious review.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; EDITORIALS INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); TERRORISM (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



180 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Gingrich's False Alarm on Trade

 BODY:
The minority whip, Newt Gingrich, has threatened to vote against the trade agreement that the U.S. and over 100 partners signed last month after seven brutal years of negotiation. That is a bizarre turnabout for a man who almost single-handedly bailed out the Clinton Presidency by rounding up Republican votes for a similar accord -- the North American Free Trade Agreement -- over the opposition of House Democrats. Bizarre -- and wrong.
 Mr. Gingrich says he is for world trade but against world government. He fears that the World Trade Organization, the oversight body provided for in the new agreement, would subject Americans to rules imposed by third world countries. But the W.T.O. would be more pussycat than tiger -- and would protect U.S. interests better than the existing General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, which has governed trade for almost 50 years. 
 The W.T.O.'s primary function will be to resolve disputes. And the procedures it will follow are those the U.S. fought hard to win. In a typical dispute, country A accuses country B of violating a trade rule. An international panel is then appointed to review the charges and render a decision. Under GATT rules the panel's decision can be blocked by any country -- putting country B in the ridiculous position of vetoing its own "conviction." Congress has rightly ridiculed the GATT for its spineless procedures.
 The W.T.O. would turn these dispute procedures around 180 degrees. Panel decisions would prevail unless all parties to the W.T.O. unanimously decided to set them aside. The sharpened ability to resolve disputes would overwhelmingly help the U.S. because it brings more complaints under the GATT than any other country.
 There will be times when dispute panels will rule against the U.S. But even in these cases the W.T.O. bares no fangs: it cannot force Congress to change trade laws. If the U.S. refuses to change an offensive practice, the W.T.O. can authorize the plaintiff to retaliate -- say, by raising tariffs on goods it imports from the U.S. Yet the U.S. would have little to fear; few countries would engage in masochistic tit-for-tat retaliation with the U.S.
 There are other ways the W.T.O. would benefit the U.S. Compared to the GATT, the W.T.O. would require a larger majority to amend or adopt trade rules -- better insulating the U.S. from Mr. Gingrich's third world tyranny. The W.T.O, furthermore, would give the U.S. more freedom to decide which of an offending country's exports to shut out; under the GATT, the U.S. can be restricted to punishing inconsequential industries.
 The new trade agreement would dramatically lower tariffs and bring agriculture, services and intellectual property -- important export sectors for the U.S. -- under fair-trade rules. The W.T.O. may sound scary. But it, and the trade agreement it oversees, will greatly benefit all consumers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (REPR) NEWT GINGRICH (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



181 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Even Now, Nixon Stirs Up Friend and Foe Alike;
Tempered by Caracas

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Most Americans seeking to understand better the life of Richard M. Nixon, only dimly remember his 1958 good-will tour of South America. As an eyewitness and press attache then at the United States Embassy in Caracas, Venezuela, and after recent research, I wonder: Did this crisis contribute fundamentally to his subsequent style of bold innovation in foreign policy? 
 In 1958, the Vice President had come into prominence as a Communist hunter without much international experience. The tour changed that. He confronted angry students in Montevideo, Uruguay, and Lima, Peru, and made front-page headlines when he arrived in Venezuela.
 There, Communist agitators, skillfully using evidence of official United States support for the recently ousted military dictator, found willing followers, especially among the young. We Embassy officers could only watch as infuriated mobs spat upon the Nixons; others attacked his enclosed limousine with stones, iron rods and fists. At one point we feared they would overturn it and set it afire.
 Later that day, safe at the Ambassador's residence, the shaken but controlled Vice President told a press conference: "The Communists were able to gain great support from students in this country because of what has happened over the last 10 years. What we are seeing is the terrible legacy of the dictatorship."
 He returned to Washington and a hero's welcome, with President Eisenhower and 80,000 spectators cheering his statesmanlike courage. He promulgated a seven-point program to encourage democracy and economic improvement in Latin America, presaging John F. Kennedy's Alliance for Progress.
 Perhaps Caracas dramatized to him that since local conditions primarily caused anti-American sentiment, international Communism might not really be monolithic. This may have influenced his Presidential decisions to deal directly with Communist leaders in China and the Soviet Union.
 
ROBERT AMERSON
Brewster, Mass., April 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); PERU (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LIMA, PERU (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); PERU (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LIMA, PERU (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); 

PERSON: NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS RICHARD NIXON (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



182 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 6; Page 24; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2956 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Knows Everything;
Murray Gell-Mann

BYLINE: By David Berreby; David Berreby has written for Discover, The Sciences and other publications.

 BODY:
SIX WRITHING LEGS GLINT LIKE copper in the strong New Mexico sun. Murray Gell-Mann, discoverer of the quark, winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1969, author of a new book that attempts to explain, oh, pretty much everything, has caught an insect. He holds it delicately by its folded wings as he clambers down from the immense window where he found it crawling.
"Come on, kid," he says. The bug wriggles. Gell-Mann opens a door onto his patio and tosses the creature out among the pinons and junipers that surround his adobe mountain home near Santa Fe. "I like these fine," he says. "I just like them outside." 
 Does Gell-Mann know what kind of insect he's returning to nature? What a silly question. The essence of Murray Gell-Mann is to know.
"They're conenose bugs," he says. "I can't remember the Latin name at the moment. They're harmless, but they're closely related to the kissing bug, which causes Chagas' disease in the tropics. Chagas' disease is a devastating kind of sleeping sickness. It's transmitted when they bite you on the mouth while you're sleeping. Hence the genus is also known as assassin bugs. Anyway, these don't carry the organism, so they're harmless."
By the way, he adds, the white plastic net under his arm isn't really right for capturing bugs. "It's a fishing net." How does he know? He stops in his tracks. A small, stooped man with white hair curling over a pink scalp, he can look like your best friend's amiable grandfather from Brooklyn -- until he encounters a thought he doesn't like. "A butterfly net would be much longer," he says, with a pained scowl and the air of one explaining that the big red light on top means "stop" and the big green one at the bottom means "go."
Even Murray Gell-Mann's credentials -- a director of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, member of the Council on Foreign Relations, adviser to the Pentagon on arms control, collector of prehistoric Southwest American pottery, amateur ornithologist, to name a few -- can't prepare a visitor for the full extent of his erudition. He pronounces "Chagas" as it is heard in Brazil. He has been known to correct the Ukrainian pronunciation of native Ukrainians and disparage the Swahili of Kenyans. His love of language, in fact, is responsible for much of the poetic nomenclature of modern particle physics, including the word "quark" to describe the particles that, in inseparable groups, make up larger subatomic particles like protons and neutrons. Gell-Mann, who made the theoretical case for quarks in the 1960's, decided on the nonsense sound, and when he later found a reference in James Joyce's "Finnegans Wake" for "three quarks for Muster Mark," that settled the matter for good.
As his wife, Marcia Southwick, makes sandwiches at the kitchen counter, Gell-Mann explains that he's on a low-fat diet, so the tuna salad is made without something that sounds like "my own haze" -- "mayonnaise" as pronounced in Paris. At the California Institute of Technology, where Gell-Mann taught from 1955 until last year, his friend, rival, fellow Nobelist and polar opposite, Richard Feynman, would occasionally feign incomprehension when Gell-Mann pronounced, say, "Montreal," in his special fashion. Sometimes, as when Gell-Mann enunciates the name of the anthropologist Clifford Geertz ("Hghayrts -- it's a Dutch name"), you have to think Feynman wasn't always faking it.
GELL-MANN, AN Austrian immigrant's son from New York City, has been doing this kind of thing for nearly all of his 64 years. (His literary agent, John Brockman, likes to say "he has five brains, and each one is smarter than yours.") His is not a know-it-all manner, but a know-it-all philosophy. He combines a mania for the smallest detail with an intellectual ambition whose confidence is strikingly out of sync with an era obsessed with the limitations of knowledge. Even many scientists nowadays do not share Gell-Mann's conviction: that it is indeed possible to know it all, that in principle there is nothing to prevent the future day when sovereign science will be able to explain absolutely everything, in a single coherent picture of how the universe works. That picture will inherently contain a certain amount of randomness and unpredictability, Gell-Mann says, but even then scientists will be able to explain why.
"There's something extremely admirable about that," says Seth Lloyd, a physicist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory and a friend and protege of Gell-Mann's. "I know that's not a very fashionable point of view, but if you're going to be a scientist, particularly a great scientist like Murray, then you have to be confident that the analytical tools you apply to the world are going to work."
Gell-Mann titled his new book, published last month, "The Quark and the Jaguar," to suggest the full width of the intellectual space he wants to span. Though not an autobiography, it is a kind of summa of all his many interests, connecting in a single skein of thought everything from the fundamentals of matter to the need for wildlife conservation and population control, with pauses here and there for marginalia, like reports of fish falling from the skies.
It is, above all, a book about beautiful theories -- triumphs of abstract thought like relativity, electromagnetism and natural selection that made the bewildering universe yield its secrets to human intelligence. Gell-Mann himself is responsible for two of the most important theories in modern particle physics, and in the book he describes what he believes will become the next great idea that will apply to jaguars, economies, human minds and all the other phenomena that particle physics doesn't consider: the theory of complexity.
Complexity theory (Gell-Mann prefers to call it "plectics") is a way of describing why the kissing bug on Gell-Mann's window is more than the sum of its parts. The basic components -- atoms, molecules, cells -- are each simple enough, but as they interact with one another, new properties emerge: the bug, for example, is capable of deciding whether to crawl up or down as Gell-Mann goes after it. The result, in Gell-Mann's parlance, is a "complex adaptive system," a collection of simple parts that interact to form a complex whole capable of learning about and reacting to the outside world.
Complexity theory rests on two ideas. The first is that complexity is not merely a quality to be noted but a quantity that can be measured. (Linguists, Gell-Mann says, might measure the complexity of some language by the length of its grammar.) That makes it possible to talk about levels of complexity and to say with confidence that complex things tend over time to give rise to more complex things.
The second key idea is that complex adaptive systems are everywhere alike. For example, Gell-Mann writes, the process of learning -- testing a model against reality and then modifying it to suit -- occurs on different time scales throughout biology. Migratory birds adapt to their environment over eons of evolution; consequently, the information they carry in their genes includes a kind of map for each bird to follow. The immune system, Gell-Mann writes, "undergoes a process very similar to biological evolution . . . but on a time scale of hours or days instead of millions of years." Where previous generations of scientists might regard that idea as a fruitful analogy, complexity theorists pursue it as possibly literally true -- that there is a way of understanding complexity, using models from mathematics, physics and especially computer science, in which evolution and an immune response would be seen as fundamentally similar. (Complexity theory, it should be noted, is related to chaos theory, which is the study of systems -- the stock market, say, or weather and traffic patterns -- that can be altered in enormous and often unpredictable ways by even the slightest change in input.)
Gell-Mann's personal prestige and network of contacts have had much to do with the current vogue for complexity theory. In 1984, he and several physicists from the nearby Los Alamos National Laboratory founded the North American mecca of complexity research, the Santa Fe Institute. Lodged in a nondescript office complex, the institute is a warren of 35 offices and a few conference rooms, all crammed with computers and books. Some 200 researchers a year from a variety of disciplines walk up and down the stairs and through little courtyards, coalescing to discuss this problem or that in a kind of ongoing, high-intellect show-and-tell of blackboard scribbling and computer simulation. Like other participants, Gell-Mann, who is a trustee of the institute and co-chairman of its science board, wanders about, listening to and buttonholing other researchers. But his is a special role. With his vast knowledge, he is a useful link between disciplines that often use mutually incomprehensible notations and concepts. Admittedly, much of the work remains to be done. "Of course, the real goal is verification," Gell-Mann says. "Predicting things that are then found to be true. We don't have a lot of that to show yet. But we will. You have to be patient. You should give it 20 years."
IT IS ENTIRELY IN CHARACTER that Gell-Mann should be promoting the biggest and most wide-ranging of new ideas in science. Throughout his career, his eye was always on the biggest prize, the most capacious theory. When the physicist and writer Jeremy Bernstein won a National Science Foundation fellowship in 1959, Gell-Mann persuaded him to come to Paris. "Stick with me, kid," Bernstein recalls Gell-Mann saying, "and I will put you on Broadway."
Gell-Mann did indeed reach physics Broadway. The Standard Model of reality that physicists use to guide their theorizing and experiments would not exist were it not for two major contributions by Murray Gell-Mann. As early as the 1950's, he was attempting to find unity in what others saw as a bewildering assortment of unrelated subatomic particles. By 1961, Gell-Mann had circulated a paper around Caltech proposing a unifying scheme in which to class the new particles, often in groups of eight. Gell-Mann dubbed it "the eightfold way" in puckish homage to the Buddhist path to nirvana. The scheme succeeded in classifying a vast array of particles according to underlying properties that were not at all apparent at first, second or even third glance. The eightfold way often has been compared to a 20th-century periodic table in its predictive power. The scheme foretold the existence of a variety of particles that had not yet been detected. As the 1960's progressed, the particles were all discovered, precisely where they were supposed to be. Gell-Mann won the Nobel Prize in 1969.
Attempting to refine the eightfold way, Gell-Mann and his collaborators proposed that some of the fundamental particles of the atom could be understood as made up of even smaller components. These were the quarks, and though the original proposal had to be made more complicated, by the mid-1970's the quark concept, too, had been resoundingly confirmed by discoveries in particle accelerators. Two weeks ago -- on the morning after Gell-Mann's book party -- physicists at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory announced that they had found evidence of the so-called top quark, the last holdout of the six quarks predicted by Gell-Mann.
At the Santa Fe Institute, Gell-Mann's combination of intellectual grandeur and mania for detail is well known. He constantly urges his colleagues to stretch further -- and explain more. "Murray pushes people with a nice abstract model to connect it more to the real world," says L. M. Simmons, the institute's vice president of academic affairs. "Sometimes he presses a little too hard. Sometimes you have to crawl before you can walk. But Murray's point is: Always think about walking."
The Gell-Mann treatment is not always pleasant. Scientists who work in solid-state physics do not appreciate his oft-quoted description of the field as "squalid-state physics." Over dinner and a carefully chosen bottle of wine in a quiet Santa Fe restaurant, Gell-Mann cannot resist a passing reference to "the good Gleick," the scientist brother of James Gleick, author of "Genius," the best-selling biography of Feynman. The book's portrayal of Gell-Mann was not nearly as flattering as he would have liked.
On the other hand, Gell-Mann's praise can be as warm and sunny as his impatience is cold and hard. When he describes a naturalist or a chemist as a "brilliant, wonderful guy," his enthusiasm fills the room.
"He's only rude to people when he thinks they're wrong and that what they're saying obscures the right way of looking at things," Lloyd says. "Which means that the things that make him obnoxious to some people are the same things that make him a great scientist."
In any event, no one has ever claimed that Gell-Mann isn't just as hard on himself. "The Quark and the Jaguar" was agony for him to write, and a considerable pain to live through for his friends and colleagues. After his huge ambition and equally huge advances from publishers around the world were ballyhooed at the 1990 Frankfurt Book Fair, anything much less than a best seller will make the book "the 'Heaven's Gate' of popular-science publishing," says an acquaintance. (A brief review in The New York Times Book Review last Sunday labeled his musings "unremarkable.") Gell-Mann's absorption in "The Quark and the Jaguar" reduced his mental presence at the Santa Fe Institute and at Los Alamos. Some friends say it even had something to do with the mild heart attack he suffered late in 1992.
Uneasy with any work that isn't world-class perfect, Gell-Mann for years found writing excruciating, and the book was no exception. His agent thought a ghost writer would help. Gell-Mann plowed through three. One, who had helped produce the 32-page proposal that sold the book, bowed out after that point and wrote his own book ("Complexity," by Roger Lewin); the next one simply couldn't bear the flaws Gell-Mann would find in everything he wrote and dropped out; a third wisely decided his three-month job was only to edit and encourage as Gell-Mann agonized over his own hen-scratchings. The chapters Gell-Mann finally delivered were written by no one but himself.
By then, having fallen far behind schedule, Gell-Mann was dropped by his first publisher; he found a second one, but nearly exhausted its patience with his last-minute corrections. "I had people calling me up every day, threatening me," Gell-Mann says. "It took years off my life."
"Ours, too," says a source at W. H. Freeman & Company who was close to the production process. "Let's just say Freeman's been pretty flexible. In fact, let's say no other author has pushed us this far. I don't want them to get the idea they can."
With the book completed, it's time now for Gell-Mann to return to the Olympian task of finding out how the bug and Chagas' disease and all other scientific knowledge fit together. Gell-Mann says certain sciences are "more fundamental" than others, as physics is more fundamental then chemistry. Each subject has its own, useful theoretical tools, he says, but it is also important to work on the "staircases" or "bridges" that will connect the various levels of inquiry into a single coherent house of knowledge. For example, Gell-Mann writes, the well-developed laws of chemistry can explain why two hydrogen atoms link together in a molecule. But more complicated bridgework would be required if, say, a theoretical chemist wanted to relate those laws to the more fundamental science of physics, which describes how the electrons in the hydrogen atoms act to connect the pair.
Gell-Mann's colleagues, however, are divided on whether such bridges and ladders can ever be built. Knowledge of how simple things come together in complex systems "is not seamless," says George Cowan, a former Los Alamos nuclear scientist who also helped found the Santa Fe Institute and served as its first president. As a system becomes more complex, Cowan says, "things arise that we call 'emergent properties' or, with more honesty, 'things we don't understand.' " Because the properties are not understood, he says, it's far from clear that the different kinds of knowledge represented by biology, chemistry, physics and psychology will one day neatly fold into one another. "These are the opening rounds of something that's going to go on for a long time."
But, Cowan adds, "Murray wants an all-embracing view. It comes of the success he's had by assuming that there had to be a fundamental elegance and beauty in subatomic particles. That led to quarks, so the faith paid off. In complexity, the jury is still out."
A MESSAGE: "CALL Murray." We've said goodbye only a few hours before.
"Those insects," Gell-Mann says when he is reached on the phone from "inside the fence," where people with security clearance work at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. "The family is Reduviidae. I don't know how I could have forgotten. And I said they didn't carry Chagas' disease. That's not right. They do carry it. But apparently they don't transmit it, because they don't defecate while feeding. The way the disease is carried by their relatives is that they bite you on the lips and defecate and then you smear the feces into the wounds when you wipe your lips. So what I said before was not quite right."
Gell-Mann's voice on the phone is warm, cheerful, deeply happy that any misapprehension he may have spread about the kissing bug has been corrected, that the tiniest of details is now precisely right. "Thanks," he says. "Thanks so much for calling back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Murray Gell-Mann with his wife, Marcia Southwick, at Caltech. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BUTOW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (71%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOES GELL-MANN (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (71%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); WRITERS (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (89%); PHYSICS (89%); BIRDS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GELL-MANN, MURRAY; GELL-MANN, MURRAY (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); BERREBY, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



183 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Hotels Catering To Children

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
IT was probably inevitable: Two hotel chains now have frequent guest programs for children, and one Washington hotel has weekend "kids' concierges," who are contemporaries.
Promotions like these, as well as the more usual summer programs, underline the rising importance of children to the lodging business. Marketing surveys indicate parents want to take young children along, even on business trips. As for vacations, Nancy Vaughan, a spokeswoman for Best Western International, said: "A lot of decisions are being made by kids. They influence the family." To respond to both possibilities, hotels may combine price promotions for the bill-paying parents, and recreation activities, gifts and cartoon character tie-ins that appeal to children. Virtually all major chains have something for this market; here is a selective list of new or revised programs. 
 If the place you want to stay is not given, ask anyway, suggesting some added value. In hotels that do a big convention business, it is frequently possible in the summer to get a discount on the cost of an adjoining room for the children. It's also a good idea to ask the maximum age for a child to stay free in an accompanying adult's room.
The Best Western chain is one with a child's frequent stay promotion, the Young Travelers Club. The club began last year and this spring was revised into a frequent-stay program similar to the one for adults. The member, age 16 or younger, joins at a hotel or by calling an 800 number. A point is awarded for each dollar the parents spend on the hotel room. Points may be redeemed for United States savings bonds, certificates of deposit to pay college tuition or for merchandise. As a sample, a savings bond that matures in 12 years to yield $200 would require 2,350 points. Parents traveling alone may use the child's card instead of their own and help accumulate points.
 
Family Features
 The 3,314 independently owned Best Westerns set their own top ages for letting children stay free in the room with parents, but club members up to 16 stay free at any participating hotel. A third of the Best Westerns had signed up by mid-April. Best Western Young Travelers Club: (800) 528-1234.
The other children's frequent stay program, at the Hyatt Hotels, is linked to Camp Hyatt. Children under 12 who stay four times at any of 100 Hyatt resorts or hotels in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean and have the visits punched in their club passports receive free Camp Hyatt merchandise. The hotels with camps offer a second room for the same family at a 50 percent reduction in price. Hyatt Hotels: (800) 233-1234.
The 52 Westin hotels and resorts in the United States, Canada and Mexico are beginning a program on May 15 that will have a number of features for families.
The hotels will prepare rooms for young children with devices like night lights, cribs, bed railings, potty seats and high chairs. Baseball caps and other gifts are given, including a bottle or cup that will be filled free at mealtimes. Other safety devices will be available. Children up to the age of 17 stay free in parents' rooms.
Westin is offering a free-meal program from May 15 to Aug. 31 for children 12 and under. The offer covers three meals a day ordered from a special menu available in some but not all Westin restaurants in a given hotel. Two children are eligible for each adult who is eating in the restaurant. This Westin Summer Getaway also involves reduced rates at 46 Westin hotels, $119 at the ANA in Washington, for example. As is typical with these offers, not all rooms are available at the promotional rates. The Plaza in New York and the Governor Hotel in Portland, Ore., are not taking part in the summer program. Westin hotels: (800) 228-3000.
Free meals are also a central part of the Holiday Inn program. From tomorrow through Sept. 5, 1,100 Holiday Inns of the 1,600 in the United States, Canada and Mexico will provide three free meals a day to children ordering from the children's menu; 700 of the chain's hotels do this year round anyway. The child must be accompanied by an adult who is eating and a maximum of four children from each room are allowed. Children 19 and younger stay free in the parents' room. Holiday Inns are also stocking Parker Brothers games for free loans; 10 different games are available at each hotel. Holiday Inns: (800) 465-4329.
 
Radisson's Discounts
 All 271 Radisson hotels in 30 countries are joining in the chain's sixth Shades of Summer, running May 12 through Sept. 5. Savings of 30 to 50 percent on regular prices are offered, and the chain says that half of its hotels include a free breakfast. This program also has a limited availability; according to Thomas J. Polski, a spokesman, an average of 10 percent of a hotel's rooms are set aside for customers paying the promotional rates. Children 16 and younger stay free in their parents' room. Advance reservations, with a request for Shades of Summer rates, are required. Most Radissons do not require payment in advance to guarantee this rate. Radisson Hotels and Resorts: (800) 333-3333.
Choice Hotels International lets children 18 and under stay free at all of its 2,350 hotels bearing the Sleep, Comfort, Quality, Clarion, Friendship, Econo Lodge and Rodeway names. Starting June 1, these hotels will be participating in a promotion tied in to the Western movie "Maverick." Game cards given on registration will all be good for prizes, some as modest as a soft drink, others ranging up to $100 gift certificates for Western clothing or a pickup truck. Children arriving at Comfort, Quality, Clarion and Sleep Inns will receive decks of playing cards.
The 1,100 Comfort Inns are now providing a free breakfast that includes fruit, cereal and milk along with the usual coffee and bread, making it possible to feed the children. Choice Hotels: (800) 424-6423.
Sheraton's program, Summer Suresavers, will run from Memorial Day through Labor Day. When the caller asks for this rate, the reservation agent gives the lowest possible rate other than a negotiated rate for Fortune 500 companies or the travel agent rate. This program also has limited availability, 10 to 20 percent of a hotel's rooms. Sheraton: (800) 325-3535.
 
Littlest Concierges
 The Kids' Concierges serve on weekends at the Omni Shoreham in Washington near the zoo. The program began three years ago, according to Arnold Fine, a spokesman. Eight children from schools in the area, public and private, get these minimum-wage jobs. They advise young guests on attractions and give behind-the-scenes tours of the hotel, which has two outdoor pools and other recreational facilities. Family weekend packages at the Shoreham cost $99 a night for a deluxe room, with children 16 and under free in the same room. A pizza party for four and a free video movie are included. Mr. Fine said that the rate was capacity controlled. Omni Shoreham: (800) 843-6664.
Hotel phone numbers and guidelines on rates are given in the free Washington, D.C., Guide 1994 from the Washington Convention and Visitors Association, 1212 New York Avenue, N.W., Suite 600, Washington, D.C. 20005; (202) 789-7000.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: H (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (86%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (86%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (86%); BEST WESTERN INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); WESTIN HOTELS & RESORTS LP (50%); BEST WESTERN YOUNG TRAVELERS CLUB (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEST WESTERN YOUNG TRAVELERS CLUB (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); MEXICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; NYTRAVEL HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); BONDS (87%); LODGING (78%); RESORTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); TUITION FEES (67%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (63%); MARKETING SURVEYS (57%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



184 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: Park Avenue, Without Doormen

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
IF one thinks of the stolid apartment houses lining Park Avenue as $100 bills, then the little buildings sprinkled between them are loose change. Some are silver, like the half-dozen surviving mansions, and some are nickel, like the occasional modest apartment house or tenement.
This is about the pennies, the tiniest and most humble of the bunch, the five two- and three-story buildings at 870, 949, 985, 1108 and 1110 Park Avenue. Most are more than a century old, but they all have somehow survived to serve an unusual group of tenants and owners. 
 In 1870, four stories scraped the sky on upper Park Avenue; few of the buildings on the half-built avenue were that tall. The railroad had been running up the center since the 1830's, making the avenue extra wide but also subjecting its residents to increasing smoke and noise as rail traffic grew. All the tracks south of 96th were placed below grade in 1872-1875, and new, planted center sections bestowed a faint gentility on the street.
This sparked a building boom of four- and five-story buildings and, after the 1890's, elevator apartment houses an astonishing seven stories tall. These were, in turn, wiped away after 1906, when the electrification of the railroad provoked a second boom, of the tall luxury apartment houses that still exist on Park Avenue.
Two successive building campaigns did not leave much in the way of Park Avenue's earlier history, but what was left over by the 1920's has largely remained to this day. Perhaps the well-known gallery of Portraits Inc., has made 985 Park Avenue the most familiar of the surviving small structures. It is a chubby little building, with a 25-foot frontage, in other circumstances a mansionesque dimension. But this is a plain little building, with bare Italianate detailing. It was built in 1870 by Ellen Smythe, a milliner, at a cost of $6,000 as a three-family dwelling; the storefront is probably a later alteration.
A view of Park Avenue in 1912 shows it in a row of little buildings with storefronts selling beer, ice, coal and other goods, but since the 1920's big apartment houses at 983 and 993 have hemmed it in on both sides.
Those who spent their childhoods on the East Side remember 985 as the home of the Florence Market, one of those fancy grocery stores that took phone orders for the Park Avenue gentry. Indeed, Anthony Tucciarone, who ran the market, bought 985 in 1948 and has kept the building even after closing the business in the late 1970's.
Now, instead of butterfly-cut lamb chops and choice fruit, the storefront offers the talents of its portrait artists, whose dreamy pictures of beautiful people in the windows make you wish you had been born rich. Marion MacKinney, the owner of Portraits Inc. who emigrated from the Fuller Building in 1986, says, "We wanted to be a little off the beaten track, but still have beautiful exposure."
"When people meet me somewhere else they say, 'Oh, I know that building,' " she said. "I don't want the foot traffic of Madison; this is a genteel business, and we often sit with a client for hours."
Mr. Tucciarone lives on the third floor and declined to respond to a request for an interview. But his second-floor tenant, Mary Beth Makula, says that "you don't really feel like you're living in New York," especially Park Avenue. The apartment she shares with her husband, Peter, and baby boy is quiet, homey and unassuming.
"It feels like a cottage, like a house in Vermont" she says.
The Makulas came from Boston four years ago, and this is their first apartment here. Their overnight guests can sleep upstairs at Mr. Tucciarone's -- "he's like my grandfather," she says -- and the doormen at 983 and 993 look out for their packages.
The oldest of the little buildings are a red brick pair between 89th and 90th Streets, 1108 and 1110 Park Avenue. These three-story buildings were put up in 1856 and are among the oldest buildings on Carnegie Hill.
By the 1880's they, too, had storefronts, and the 1910 census shows them occupied as two-family dwellings; the tenants included a policeman, a Parks Department driver and a department store saleslady in 1108 and an artist and a music teacher in 1110.
PHOTOGRAPHS of the 1930's show the store tenants as the Baldwin Fish Market at 1108 and the Bristol Market -- "Choice Meats" -- at 1110. Now Rita Farrell, a lawyer who lives around the corner on 90th Street, splits a storefront at 1108 with Marta Coiffure and the Plaza Florist is in the ground floor of 1110.
The owner of 1108 declined to allow his name to be used, but said that "there's nothing good and everything bad" about living there. He bought it in the 1970's when he was searching for a fallback location for a business he operated nearby on Park Avenue. That was never necessary, but he remained at 1108 nonetheless, and he feels quite apart from his typical neighbors in the big apartment houses.
"They go away for weekends," he says. "They just sleep here. They pay a million or more for their apartments and then another million to fix them up, and in their buildings they have a manager, a superintendent" and other building staff.
He says he has to do things himself, like laying his own sidewalk, which he carefully designed with shells and pebbles. "When I do things myself, I know it's done," he says, "and if I didn't do it myself I couldn't hang on to it."
His onetime neighbor, the late Judith Rothschild, bought 1110 in 1985 after a decade as a tenant and added a brutally modern top-floor art studio. She established a foundation to help other artists, which has offices in the building. A man who said he was handling the foundation's affairs but declined to give his name said that Mrs. Rothschild, who died last year, had had houses in Big Sur, on the California coast, in Provincetown, Mass., and Saugerties, N.Y., but that "she felt diffident about being an artist and being on Park Avenue," even wanting to adopt a sidestreet address, although without result. Her building has an exquisite set of Victorian doors inset with colored Minton tiles.
A few blocks south, anyone wanting to emulate Mrs. Rothschild can rent the two-story-high 949 Park Avenue from the Duell Estate for $12,500 a month for what they measure as 3,000 square feet plus a basement. Alfred P. Arnold, a mason, built 949 in 1864 and a photograph taken around 1915 shows a little building dominated by a projecting plate-glass storefront on the ground floor and a projecting cornice with five-foot high sign on the top: "Lincoln Markets -- D. Werdenschlag."
By the 1950's an interior decorator had displaced the cold cuts, and Ruth Blumka, an art dealer, leased the building in 1975, moving up from East 57th Street.
"Our clients come by limousine, or on foot, and only by appointment," she says, and the traditional art gallery addresses have come to mean little to her. She took a 10-year lease from the Duells, and redid the front to its present appearance. "I loved that building," she says. "I wanted to buy it."
But the Duells, who declined requests for an interview, did not sell, and Mrs. Blumka moved to a ground-floor apartment next door, at 941 Park. The next tenant was a plastic surgeon, but the building is now empty.
AT 870 Park Avenue, between 77th and 78th Streets, what looks to be a futuristic beach house is, way down inside, a private stable built in 1897. The original 870 was almost identical to the twin survivors around the corner at 75 and 77 East 77th Street.
In 1910 John J. Hackett, a 41-year-old "chauffeur -- private family," lived with his wife, Viola, and 6-year-old son above what was by then a private garage. In 1940 the architects Kahn & Jacobs redesigned it in the Regency style for a doctor. The architects Robert A. M. Stern and John S. Hagmann further modernized it in 1976.
The client for the 1976 alteration, Judith Stern Peck, is still the owner, although she is living elsewhere while she battles with her insurance company over reimbursement for a fire at 870 18 months ago.
Mrs. Peck said that she had been specifically searching for a private house in New York and the building at 870 was "the most secure way I could live in a town house -- with two big buildings on either side; there was no second choice."
Another benefit has been the abundant sunlight from Park Avenue, much wider than the usual brownstone sidestreet, but she says that the only reason she would move out is "too much space" now that her children are grown.
If the owners and occupants of Park Avenue's little buildings see themselves as separate from the rest of Park Avenue, sometimes the survival of the small structures has been due in part to their giant neighbors.
Mrs. Stern's house was owned for many years by the owner of the apartment house at 876 Park Avenue, which apparently held it as a light protector. In 1978, 955 Park Avenue, then undergoing conversion to a co-op, won an agreement with the owner of 949 Park Avenue not to increase its height.
According to the owner of 1108 Park, the developers of the 1920's apartment house at 1112 Park Avenue sought to bring 1110 and 1108 into their assemblage. But Julius Daub, the owner of Bristol Market, refused, explaining the odd T-shape that 1112 makes behind the little buildings.
In 1936, 1112 signed an agreement to pay the owner of 1108 $100 a year for the encroachment of its casement windows over the lot line of 1108.
ONLY the modern 870 Park Avenue is under landmark control and the bulky addition on 1110 Park Avenue proves that not everyone prizes these buildings as antiques. Despite the antisliver building law of 1982, any of these buildings could be subject to the kind of repeated additions that changed the little 415 East 57th Street from four stories to 15 stories in 1992.
The economic engine that makes most of these buildings go is the commercial or professional ground floor, which can generate significant rents. Leslie J. Garfield, the president of his eponymous real estate firm, says that 870 Park Avenue might sell for $4 million to $5 million and the other buildings in the $2 million range, putting them on a level with a rowhouse off Park Avenue. But it would be an oddball sell, Mr. Garfield says, because "I don't think the typical New York family wants one."
Edward Lee Cave, the owner of a real estate firm that bears his name, says "they aren't big enough to be grand, and Park Avenue bespeaks engraved stationery" adding that the east-west orientation of the houses means none of them could have the coveted south garden.
Each owner -- and even the lessees -- seems attached to the buildings. One, who used to play marbles on the sidewalk half a century ago in front of what became his house, says that even while complaining about the cost and the isolation, "I could never move."
"I don't know why," he says. "It's just one of those things."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1870 four-story buildings were the tallest lining Park Avenue. Today, a few of these small buildings remain tucked among the avenue's high-rise apartment buildings. Among them are, clockwise, from the top left: Nos. 985, 1108, 1110, 870 and 949. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PORTRAITS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; PARK AVENUE (NYC); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RETAILERS (87%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CLOSINGS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER ANTHONY TUCCIARONE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



185 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/Bronx Terminal Market;
Trying to Duplicate the Little Flower's Success

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
IN 1935, a new get-tough Mayor, Fiorello H. LaGuardia, took over the failing Bronx Terminal Market and in seven months made the multimillion-dollar boondoggle useful and profitable for the first time.
Now the market, along the Harlem River between 149th and 152d Streets, is a shambles under a troubled private lease deal, and another get-tough Mayor would like to repeat LaGuardia's success. 
 When LaGuardia took office in 1934 he began a program of construction of public markets for economic development and to reduce the number of New York's pushcart vendors, long considered an unsavory nuisance. Most of these markets were new construction, like the one under the railroad trestle on Park Avenue above 110th Street.
But in the Bronx there was a fortress-like cold-storage warehouse on the Harlem River between 151st and 152d Streets, begun by Mayor John F. Hylan in 1917 and never finished, even though it had swallowed up $17 million by the time the Little Flower was elected. Between Oct. 1, 1934, and May 1, 1935, the city built a new complex just south of the huge Hylan structure: small two-story concrete buildings of simple design, constructed at a cost of $570,000.
Designed by Samuel Oxhandler with John D. Churchill and Albert W. Lewis, the buildings were originally painted light yellow. The next year, 1936, the market's flagship structure went up, a small, cubist-style polygon at 149th Street with "Bronx Terminal Market" in large relief in the concrete, a piquant landmark to every northbound motorist on the Major Deegan Expressway. This building was designed to serve as a bank and, upstairs, a hotel for farmers.
The complex had a float bridge (to bring in rail cars by barge), a spur of the New York Central Railroad and good road connections to the Triborough and George Washington Bridges. So popular were the new 3,000-square-foot units in the two-story buildings that 80 companies squeezed into the initial 48 spaces, firms like Andrew Casazza, bananas; Cherson & Moss, apples, and the Illinois Meat Company. The large covered farmer's market has since disappeared.
In December 1935, LaGuardia visited the Bronx Terminal Market to announce "a serious and threatening emergency." He proclaimed it illegal to sell, display or even possess artichokes. Mob control, he said, had inflated prices, costing consumers $100,000 a year over the previous decade, and he aimed to break its hold. The price dropped and the artichoke ban was lifted the next year.
In 1937 the Department of Markets announced that it was giving up on the older cold-storage warehouse. Although the building was then fully occupied, the maintenance costs were high, and the cold-storage warehouse had never generated more than $65,000 a year in rent. But the newer, small units were making money.
In the 1950's the Major Deegan Expressway went up over Exterior Street, the market's main artery. At the same time there was talk of consolidating the city's markets at the Bronx Terminal Market, but the huge Hunts Point site was later chosen.
In 1972 the administration of John V. Lindsay leased the entire complex to the Arol Development Corporation for 99 years. But in the 70's and 80's the city repeatedly took action against Arol for failure to pay its rent and for not expanding the market facilities as it had promised in the lease. Maurice H. Nadjari, the special state prosecutor, reported finding evidence of bribery, corruption and self-dealing in the market lease by Arol and city officials, but it appears that no formal charges were ever filed.
Today the market bustles in the early morning hours; it has a secure niche as a central shopping point for foods for the city's bodegas, with wholesalers offering specialty foods from around the world. But the cold-storage building is a shell, and the piers a twisted wreckage, covered with junk.
Arol renamed itself Strategic Development Concepts last year. David Newman, a spokesman, said that the 1970's allegations were "harassment and an abuse of the judicial system to try to gain unfair political advantage" and regain control of the market. He said that in the past the city avoided maintenance "possibly to constructively evict our tenants" and that the company's redevelopment proposals had been ignored.
Last July the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins announced it would no longer fight to revoke the lease, but would instead condemn the 32-acre Bronx Terminal Market and the cold-storage warehouse for a specialized urban-renewal plan.
As it now stands, the plan calls for rehabilitating some buildings, demolishing others, providing public access, improving the streetscape and encouraging compatible commercial and retail development. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is continuing the effort and according to Simon Leopold, a spokesman for the city's Economic Development Adminstration, consultants will probably finish the plan this summer. Then the plan must go through planning reviews, which will take until September 1995. Only at that point can condemnation proceedings begin.
Mr. Leopold says that with "an aggressive schedule" they might be complete by January 1996.
Mr. Newman, the Strategic Development spokesman, said that his company had not studied the condemnation proposal but that "we don't want to fight with the city."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bronx Terminal Market building in 1935, top (The Avery Library); the market building today on Cromwell Avenue. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BRONX TERMINAL MARKET (NYC) AROL DEVELOPMENT (70%); BRONX TERMINAL MARKET (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRONX TERMINAL MARKET (NYC) BRONX TERMINAL MARKET (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); TRAINS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (69%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LA GUARDIA, FIORELLO H (1882-1947); GRAY, CHRISTOPHER FIORELLO H LAGUARDIA (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



186 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
An Assessment System With Distortions Built In

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
IN about a month the City Council will set the tax rates for the various classes of New York City property. Then the Finance Department will send out tax bills for fiscal 1995, which begins July 1.
What better time for owners of a house, co-op or condominium to haul out a calculator and figure out their own effective tax rate? This is the percentage that expresses the relationship between the property tax in dollars and the market value of the property. 
 Punch in the total property tax this year (fiscal 1994, which ends June 30). Divide it by a best guess of the current market value of the property. Move the decimal point two places to the right to get the percentage.
The result of this exercise done across a spectrum of properties citywide is to demonstrate irrationality in the New York City property-tax scheme, politically acceptable though it may be.
Legislators have created and maintained preferences that rest on cardinal principles of New York life: Load as much of the tax burden as possible on commercial property; hold down the taxes of homeowners by capping assessment increases and hold down taxes on co-ops and condominiums by assessing them comparably to rentals.
And, of course, maintain rent regulation.
All this creates special advantages for some of the city's wealthiest residents living as owners in its most valuable older housing, just as rent regulation provides the same for wealthy renters willing to stay put over a long term. And it puts many buyers of new housing at a disadvantage, especially in moderate-income neighborhoods where rental property, if there is any, rents at close to market value. Staten Island condominium owners, as an example, pay high effective tax rates.
This year a nuance has been added. A state law enacted last year and adopted by the City Council after modification seeks to decontrol apartments that rent for more than $2,000 a month and are tenanted by households with income of more than $250,000 a year.
Even before income and expense data are available to show that the law has had a positive effect on rental income, the city's assessors plan to adjust values of rentals in prime Manhattan locations upward to reflect the presumed benefit. That will lead to upward adjustments of nearby co-ops and condominiums. The impact will first be felt on the 1995-96 assessment roll, effective for taxes in the year starting July 1, 1995.
Meanwhile, those with calculators can ponder the effects of the arcane laws governing assessment practices. They favor not only one-family houses but also co-ops and condominiums in older neighborhoods with high market values and little recent construction. Even when market values slide 25 or 30 percent, as they may have in the last few years, the tax burden on these properties is modest compared with those of similar value outside New York City.
In the metropolitan area it is typical in one-family-home communities to find effective tax rates somewhat under 2 percent. At 2 percent, the owner pays $6,000 a year on a house worth $300,000.
The New York City homeowner who is writing these words is luckier. He lives in a sizable 1925 house in the St. George section of Staten Island, and he thinks it is worth about $300,000. (A neighbor's comparable house sold for $400,000 six years ago.) The annual taxes are about $2,500, so the effective tax rate is 0.83 percent.
Numbers like these spur legislators in co-op districts to seek to remove their buildings from Class 2 (apartment buildings, whether rentals, co-ops or most condominiums) and put them in Class 1 (one- to three-family houses and condominium buildings with three or fewer units).
CLASS ratios were established by the Legislature in 1981. The idea was to prevent a reassessment at 100 percent of market value, called for in a Court of Appeals decision in a case involving a house in Suffolk County. Had the city reassessed all property at 100 percent of market value, instituted differentials in tax rates for differing types of property and a system of phase-ins, a more equitable system might have emerged. But the technical difficulties would have been formidable even if the political will had been there. And it wasn't.
The Legislature instead enacted a law known as S-7000, setting assessment ratios for four classes of property. Assessment increases were then capped for one-family homes at 6 percent a year, and 20 percent over five years. As market values rose in the 80's, effective tax rates for the class fell.
Subsequently, smaller rentals also were given preferential treatment -- a 30 percent limit on assessment increases over five years, and no more than 8 percent in a single year. In the 90's the caps for small rentals were extended to small co-ops and condominiums.
The larger co-ops and condominiums don't have annual caps, but those that are in strong market areas, with older rent-regulated buildings nearby, have had favorable treatment anyway.
On the West Side and East Side of Manhattan, some of the most valuable co-op apartments in the city appear to have effective tax rates about as low as one-family houses as a class.
The law instructs assessors to determine value by imputing a rental value to co-ops and condominiums, rather than consider sales value. Rent-regulated buildings are typically the comparables in older residential neighborhoods. Low turnover in the most desirable locations suppresses their rent rolls relative to market values. Moreover, there has been little new rental construction to provide rents that reflect newer values.
Newer buildings -- usually condominiums -- benefit less because they are assessed in comparison with rents in newer buildings, which usually are closer to market values.
"There is a big difference in assessments between 1930's buildings, 1960's buildings and 1980's buildings," said Robert M. Pollack, a lawyer who handles real-estate tax appeals.
He estimated that 1980's condominiums on the East Side typically paid taxes at a rate of about $6 a gross square foot, or $8,400 a year for a two-bedroom apartment with about 1,200 net square feet of space. Its market value is about $330,000 ($275 a square foot); the effective tax rate is 2.5 percent. But the average assessments per apartment in older East Side buildings is often much lower than $6 a square foot.
CO-OP owners can calculate their effective tax rate by multiplying their taxes per share (typically reported to them annually by the management) by the total shares they hold in the co-op corporation, and dividing the result by their estimate of market value.
Data developed in the real-estate industry indicate that 2,400 co-ops with Central Park West entrances from 59th Street to 87th Street are paying average taxes of $5,600 per apartment this year. The average price in 66 sales last year was $898,000. The effective tax rate is therefore 0.6 percent.
On the East Side avenues -- Fifth, Madison and Park, 59th Street to 87th Street -- the effective rate for co-ops appears to be about 0.8 percent. There were 245 sales in 1993 at an average price of $1.18 million. There are about 6,600 co-ops in 122 buildings.
The sales information comes from Douglas Elliman Gibbons & Ives, the large management and marketing firm. The data on the number of buildings and apartments and the assessments per apartment were worked out by the Real Estate Board of New York.
The effective tax rates were calculated on the basis of actual assessments, although this is a slight distortion since there is a five-year phase-in of new taxes outside Class 1 when actual assessments rise. In that period taxes are based on a transitional assessment. But the gap between transitional and actual assessments is great only in periods of sharply rising values, and in recent years it has narrowed.
Brokers say that the largest apartments in older buildings with the finest views and extravagant improvements, which command premium sales prices, often have a share allocation that does not reflect their true value. Therefore they may have an unusually low effective tax rate. These may have been the very apartments that were selling best in 1993, driving down the effective rate along the prime residential avenues in Manhattan.
Property-tax revenue is slumping as well. But the distortions are thriving. According to the Real Property Tax Reform Commission, which issued a report last December after a six-month study of property taxes requested by former Mayor David N. Dinkins and City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, the effective tax rate currently for Class 1 property as a whole is 0.78 percent. For Class 2 it is 2.5 percent; for Class 3 (utility property) it's 3.13 percent and for Class 4 it is 4.75 percent.
"THE Legislature should never have passed S-7000," said Dick Netzer, professor of economics and public administration at New York University. "It is the worst piece of property tax legislation ever passed in the United States. It enshrined discrimination among the classes and it made matters worse."
Well-to-do co-op owners, of course, are paying many taxes besides the property tax. Their total tax burden may well be heavier than that of people of like income living in surrounding communities who are paying much higher effective property-tax rates.
A study done in 1988 by John E. Petersen and Ian Allen for the Government Finance Research Center in Washington compared the total Federal, state and local tax burdens of families with gross incomes of $125,000 in New York City and other communities.
The burdens were similar -- $38,800 in New York City, $41,900 in Glen Cove, L.I., $34,700 for a family living in South Orange, N.J., and earning its livelihood in Newark. The property-tax burden was far lighter in New York City. The New York household paid only $3,300 in property taxes, while the Glen Cove household paid $11,900. But the New York household paid more in Federal, state and local income tax.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Who Pays What: Tacxes as a Proportion of Market Value" shows the ratio of average current taxes per aprtment to average sales prices last year. (Sources: Douglas Ellman, Gibbons & Ives; Real Estate Board of New York); "How Assessments In New York City are Changing" shows how value assessments in New York City have changed from 1985 to 1995. (Source: New York City Department of Finance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); CITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; COOPERATIVES; HOUSING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



187 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 3; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2354 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/The SoHo District;
Grit to Glamour: The Evolution of SoHo

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
OVER the last few decades, SoHo has changed from a district for light manufacturing to a haven for artists to a home for the poshest of galleries. Now it is steadily marching into the realm of the uncharacterizable, an area where furniture stores and art galleries and funky fashion shops -- and lately, even a soupcon of mainstream stores like Armani A/X and Lechters Housewares -- coexist.
"What was once just an art gallery place has become an international marketplace for style and design, a place that foreigners routinely include on their New York itinerary," said Louis E. Sagar, owner of Zona, a store at 97 Greene Street that sells expensive, handcrafted items. 
 Stephen Werther, the owner of both Portico Home and Portico Bed & Bath, both of which sell high-end linens and other home accessories, put it more simply. "This feels like the world's greatest shopping mall," he said.
Not every denizen of SoHo, which is bounded by Houston and Canal Streets to the north and south, and Lafayette Street and West Broadway on the east and west, greets the influx with delight.
Many long-time residents are, through organizations like the SoHo Alliance, striving to keep the neighborhood's once-insular nature from fraying even more. They are fighting to prevent local restaurants from opening sidewalk cafes and to keep existing rules that make it difficult for anyone but working artists to rent apartments.
Retailers, meanwhile, are often shellshocked by the scads of peddlers that still throng SoHo streets on sunny days. Landlords still must go through a ponderous permit process before they can convert ground-floor space into stores.
And some SoHo-watchers worry that SoHo is growing so fast that it will fall prey to the Columbus Avenue phenomenon -- trendy retailers, with their willingness to pay high rents, driving out local shops only to go out of business themselves when sales do not sustain those rents.
Last November, the Replay Country Store, which sells new and used jeans, took space on Greene and Prince Streets for about $85 a square foot a year. A few months later a tee-shirt store agreed to pay $175 a square foot across the street.
"There's no way the new store will ever do the volume to sustain that rent," predicted one retail expert who insisted on anonymity. Still, neither the hassles nor the fears nor the rules have kept SoHo from turning into an international marketplace cum tourist attraction that is luring more and more stores and office tenants each day.
"The demand for retail space in SoHo is outstripping the supply," said Caroline P. Banker, senior vice president of New Spectrum Realty, a retail brokerage. "They're getting $100 a square foot on Prince Street for space they couldn't have gotten $55 for two years ago."
Local building owners are equally ebullient. Not only are their street-level spaces going fast, but they also are filling the upstairs offices that were vacated in droves when the recession wrought havoc with the art galleries that once occupied them.
Jonathan P. Switzer, a managing director of Winoker Realty who is leasing agent for 568 and 578 Broadway, says he has been renting space not only to out-of-town galleries looking for short-term leases but also to such non-artsy tenants as pediatricians.
Jeffrey Gural, who owns 560 and 594 Broadway, says his buildings are full. "Sure, lots of the galleries that catered to the yuppie crowd are gone, but we're filling up with small ad lagencies, architects, people who realize it is a lot more fun to work here than to join the suspenders crowd up north," Mr. Gural said. "This is the strongest market we've ever faced."
STILL, the most visible sign of SoHo's resurgence is on the ground floor. For now, most of the classier shops are congregated around Prince and Spring Streets, with many of the better restaurants on West Broadway and the furniture stores clustered on Wooster Street.
And, of course, the art scene still exists and thrives, with galleries sprinkled throughout those streets.
"All the traffic has turned West Broadway into an internationally known restaurant row," said Robert S. Bookman, an attorney for the West Broadway Association, a group of restaurant owners that wants to be allowed to operate unenclosed sidewalk cafes.
Lately, the demand for space is revitalizing even lower Broadway, a street that until a few years ago was characterized primarily by the type of low-end retailing usually associated with West 14th Street.
Last year there was a Blimpie's on the corner of Spring and Broadway; today there is a coffee bar. And the corner of Prince Street and Broadway has turned positively upscale: Armani A/X is on the northeast corner; Dean & DeLuca, a specialty food store, is on the southeast; the Nature Company, which sells products to promote nature and conservation, is on the southwest and the Guggenheim Museum SoHo commands the northwest.
"This corner has become the epicenter of SoHo," said Benjamin Fox, a New Spectrum partner.
That is probably an exaggeration, in that SoHo's eastern end still does not attract much strolling traffic. That's one reason that Terra Verde, a self-described ecological department store, recently moved from Lafayette Street to 120 Wooster Street, right off Prince Street.
"In the old location we had regular customers, but here we get weekend people who trip over us as they walk the street," said Katherine Tiddens, the store's owner.
But Broadway has its pluses. The rents remain cheaper, although they are creeping up. There are huge spaces available. And retailers who have established a loyal following elsewhere can sometimes bring those customers along with them.
Dean & DeLuca, for one, started out in a tiny shop on Prince Street. Six years ago, when it wanted to expand into the bustling Zabar's-type place it is today, it moved to Broadway, keeping the former shop as a coffeehouse.
"The rents were good, and this was close enough to my home base so that I could take my old customers with me," said Giorgio G. DeLuca, the store's owner.
Mr. DeLuca's retail neighbors are aggressively luring new customers. The Nature Company recently took out ads in several newspapers announcing that Jane Goodall, the zoologist, would be available to sign copies of her new book, "The Great Apes: Between Two Worlds." The ad noted that while the book was available at all Nature Company stores, Ms. Goodall would only be in SoHo.
Last February, Miriam Novalle opened the T Salon below the Guggenheim Museum Shop. She's not only selling teas and teamaking paraphernalia, but also offering what the store bills as a "proper English tea" from 3:30 to 6 P.M., and a "New York tea" -- same menu, different time -- from 6 to 8 P.M. Perhaps most important for the neighborhood, the salon stays open until midnight.
"TODAY, only destination stores with deep pockets can be successful pioneers on Broadway," said Mr. Werther, who never considered a Broadway location for Portico.
"But you'll see, five years from now, Broadway will be the logical extension of the SoHo we already know."
All this activity is an unexpected twist for a neighborhood that the city tried for years to maintain as a last bastion of manufacturing. In 1980 the city government ruled that no ground-level space of more than 3,600 square feet in SoHo that was not already used for retailing could be converted to that use unless the owners proved they had made "good faith" efforts to rent to a manufacturer. No residential use was allowed at all.
"Everyone felt the area could work as an incubator, a place where small manufacturers could get their start," recalled Norman Marcus, a zoning lawyer with the Manhattan law firm Bachner, Tally, Polevoy & Misher. He was a lawyer for the Department of City Planning when the zoning rule was passed.
As manufacturers moved out in the 70's despite the city's ardent wishes, many artists started to move into the upstairs lofts the manufacturers vacated. "Landlords maintained the fiction that these were studios, where people manufactured art," Mr. Marcus recalled.
Ultimately, the city changed the zoning to permit the lofts to be used as joint living/ working quarters for artists. But it left the retail rules intact.
The rules didn't much affect the tiny street-level galleries or coffee shops serving residents or art browsers, but it put the kibosh on any plans to woo major retailers.
Some developers tried to get around the rules, building bizarre structures that, technically, did not have any ground-level space at all. At 430 West Broadway, between Prince and Spring Streets, for example, there is a four-story building, without elevators, that was built in the 80's as a potential retail mall. The "ground" floor is a flight of stairs down; the "second floor" is 10 feet above street level.
Legally, it was rentable for retail; the problem was, no one wanted it. The building has but one tenant, a small Oriental gallery. A similar building stands empty nearby.
BUT as the spendthrift 80's turned into the thrifty 90's, other buildings thrived. Furniture manufacturers along Wooster Street -- Knoll International is a good example -- that once sold exclusively to the trade started selling retail, to capitalize on the number of people who were dispensing with expensive decorators and doing their own rehab. As more furniture shoppers showed up, new stores like Portico Bed & Bath opened in SoHo to serve them. Some were in buildings whose landlords had gained exceptions to the zoning rules; others turned a blind eye to legality.
One reason they could do that -- and risk being shut down should the city crack down on zoning violations -- is that SoHo stores often cost little to set up. Many of the old factories have great natural architecture -- high ceilings, ornate columns, hardwood floors, big basements perfect for storing inventory. And the stores have been able to move in with a minimum of buildout work, using the existing structure as decor.
At Portico Bed and Bath, which is in a building where blackboards were once manufactured, the original tin ceiling, floors and columns blend nicely with the fancy linens and furniture arrayed for sale. Terra Verde sports huge windows and a striking skylight in the back, a holdover from the building's industrial use.
Kate's Papery, a high-end stationer, moved into the landmarked Singer Sewing Machine building at 561 Broadway, off Prince Street, about 18 months ago. The owners hung paper on the ceiling, through which the original duct work shows -- an artistic look that was quite inexpensive to create. And brokers say the space is costing no more than $35 a square foot a year.
THE zoning problem may become moot soon anyway. Two years ago city officials issued a report acknowledging that ground-floor use in SoHo had changed enough to warrant re-examination of the rules. Joseph B. Rose, the city Planning Commissioner and director of the City Planning Department, says he is doing just that.
"Some of the measures that were adopted to maintain SoHo's special character may be anachronistic," he said. "SoHo has become a thriving retail environment in spite of all the regulations, and it's probably time to simplify the process for opening a shop."
SoHo's explosive growth has already simplified the expansion process for some of its retailers. Portico Bed & Bath has developed enough of a reputation to open stores in Westport and Greenwich, Conn., and in Short Hills, N.J. Zona has traveled even farther afield, with stores in Italy and Japan, and one scheduled to open soon in London.
"The travelers who got to know us here made it easier for us to succeed over there," said Mr. Sagar, Zona's owner. "If we were in, say, Chelsea instead of SoHo, we could never have gone international."
 
 
 
NOHO PICKS UP THE SOHO PACE
 UNTIL a decade or so ago, Houston Street was not just a physical slash through Broadway, but a cultural one as well.
To the south was SoHo, with its artistic patina. To the north was NoHo, with its insurance companies and smattering of inconsequential stores. SoHo came alive at night; NoHo died.
But now NoHo's Broadway, particularly through Eighth Street and Astor Place, is seeing a commercial upheaval all its own, albeit one with roots far different from those of its sister neighborhood to the south.
For SoHo, the changes followed the economy. For NoHo, they followed one store: Tower Records, which opened its behemoth emporium on the corner of Broadway and East Fourth Street in 1983.
With its midnight closing and huge music selection, Tower quickly became a place for local New York University and Cooper Union students to hang out. Soon after that, teen-agers from around the city and New Jersey started hanging out, too. The area even made it into tourist books geared for European students traveling through.
"Tower Records put this area on the map as a place for transient kids," said Benjamin Fox, a partner in New Spectrum Realty. "Now, just as SoHo is becoming more established and richer, NoHo is becoming younger and less affluent."
That switch has not gone unnoticed by national chains. Benetton, The Body Shop, Software Etc., and other stores that cater to a young crowd have sprung up a few blocks north of Tower, paying more than $100 a square foot a year for their space. Barnes & Noble plans to take over the store at 2-10 Astor Place that the bankrupt Conran's has closed.
In fact, NoHo and SoHo are starting to swap stores, as their newfound identities stabilize.
Several antiques stores and galleries have moved to Lafayette Street in NoHo, driven off by SoHo's rising rents. And Pottery Barn, which has a store on Broadway and West Fourth Street, is looking at a bigger storefront on Houston and Broadway, just across the line into SoHo.
"Houston Street remains a psychological barrier," said Jonathan P. Switzer, a managing director at Winoker Realty who is leasing agent for a couple of SoHo buildings. "You have N.Y.U. supporting NoHo, but you have a universe supporting SoHo."
 CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Broadway and Prince Street corner; Guggenheim Museum, rear. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 14); SoHo, now an area where furniture stores, galleries and fashion shops coexist. Top, view south on Wooster Street toward Spring Street; below, Portico Home on West Broadway. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map of SoHo. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WEST BROADWAY ASSOCIATION (92%); SOHO ALLIANCE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOHO ALLIANCE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOHO AREA (SOUTH HOUSTON INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT) (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (84%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); FURNITURE STORES (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



188 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: 19th-Century Reformer's Way With the Homeless

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN 

 BODY:
THE mothers and their children stare at the camera in the shelter where they will spend the night -- tired, apprehensive, huddled like sheep, afraid of the dark outside.
At another shelter, this one for men, the occupants are getting ready to sleep on cots so close together that they look like a carpet of rectangles. 
 These are the homeless, but not of today. These are the faces of the 1890's, a time known as the Gilded Age, but not for everyone. The Gilded Age had an underbelly of poverty and homelessness, and it was captured on film and in prose by an unlikely social reformer from Hartford.
The reformer was the Rev. John James McCook, the rector of St. John's Episcopal Church in East Hartford. He also taught languages at Trinity College in Hartford and eventually became head of its modern language department.
 
A World Traveler
 In social rank, Mr. McCook was far removed from the impoverished people he would come to know so well. Before he was 21, he had traveled in Europe for almost a year. After he had married and raised a large family, he took one of his daughters, Frances, on a world tour spread over two years, returning home laden with Oriental art and a huge collection of Japanese armor.
In the interim, however, he discovered the poor.
As a citizen of Hartford, living right on Main Street just a few blocks down from City Hall, he became concerned about the amount of public money going for aid to poor people. So in 1890 he went to a meeting of the Common Council to complain. In a brilliant political move, members of the council appointed Mr. McCook to study the situation and compile what they called an alms report, which he did. And in the detailed document he brought back to the council, he disclosed that he had changed his mind. The poor were not getting enough charity, he said. They needed much more.
The report transformed Mr. McCook into a leading advocate for the poor and a crusader for reform. For 37 years, until his death at 84 in 1927, no social problem was outside his purview: homelessness, the buying of votes, prostitution, unfair laws regarding paupers.
 
Records Are Voluminous
 His high level of energy, preaching at his church and teaching at Trinity, was only fueled by his new interests. He wrote voluminous, detailed reports about his excursions into a world seldom seen up close by people of his station. He often spoke in public about social problems that troubled him and proposed solutions.
His horizons did not stop at his own city. He prowled the missions, the flophouses, the police stations and the saloons of New York and Boston, often accompanied by his son Philip, who took photographs. One shows an establishment known as the Bum Beer Saloon on the East Side of Manhattan.
It was just one of dozens of pictures Mr. McCook had taken of bums or hoboes or tramps -- they were called all of these -- because they fascinated him the most. The other poor people he studied -- the abandoned mother, the man who would vote 15 times under 15 names on Election Day, the neglected child, the drunkard, the disabled veteran -- he would keep at an objective distance in his reports. But he came to know the tramps personally and in many cases fondly.
"I always realize the oneness in humanity as I talk and get these people to talk in return, easily and freely," he once wrote.
When the tramps arrived at his back door, he would question them at length about their travels, where they came from, how they lived. And the more he knew, the more he wanted to know. He satisfied some of his curiosity by printing a questionnaire and sending it to 40 police departments around the country, asking that indigents fill them out. (Many police departments of the era provided sleeping accommodations of sorts for people passing through their communities.)
The tramps responded to the invitation to tell their stories, occasionally with good humor. Asked his occupation, one answered, "Gentleman." To the question "When are you going to work again?," the answer was, "Never."
 
Letters From Roving Bill
 From the 1,349 returned questionnaires, Mr. McCook arrived at a profile of the tramp of the time: a single, white, Roman Catholic male between 20 and 40, literate, unemployed and intemperate.
But to Mr. McCook each tramp was an individual. Some had fascinating nicknames -- Connecticut Fatty, Dan the Dodger, Providence Bob, Philadelphia Shorty -- and fascinating exploits. He carried on a 20-year correspondence with one tramp, Roving Bill Aspinwall, although they never met. Mr. McCook had asked Connecticut Fatty to write to him from the road, and Fatty turned the duty over to Roving Bill, a more literate type.
When the tramps showed up at his door, Mr. McCook would send them to a nearby photographer's studio, where they would pose for their portraits. Then they would return to the house to be fed, but only after doing some chore, like chopping wood. Mr. McCook did not believe in tramps being on the dole.
After his death, two of his unmarried children, Anson and Frances, continued to live in the family home. Anson, a lawyer, died in 1967 and Frances in 1971. The house, parts of which date to 1782, passed on to the Antiquarian and Landmarks Society. It still sits on Main Street, a graceful touch of the 18th and 19th centuries perched between two bland modern buildings, the Federal building and a residence for elderly people.
 
Touring Another Age
 A visit to the Butler-McCook Homestead (John James McCook married his second cousin, Eliza Butler, who lived in the house) offers an intimate look at a family of affluence a century ago. Details include overstuffed furniture, dark woodwork, bric-a-brac, china and silver, games the children played, and the formal garden in back where they roamed. (The house is open to the public from mid-May to mid-October, on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays from noon to 4 P.M.)
The homestead is authentic because the family never threw anything out, said the Antiquarian andLandmark Society's resident expert on John James McCook, Trudy K. Jones. "They kept diaries, journals, checkbook stubs, everything."
When members of the society were first sorting through the treasures in the house, however, it appeared that the credo of keeping everything had been violated. They found a note from Mr. McCook to Frances, asking her to destroy his personal papers, including those on all the social issues that troubled him. But Frances's prudence won out over her father's wishes. Tucked away in the attic were boxes of the real legacy of John James McCook.
Out they tumbled -- the surveys, the recommendations, the pictures that showed the face of poverty in the Gilded Age and what Mr. McCook wanted to do about it.
Among the papers was a sketch of a state reformatory he wanted to build in Hartford, to try to rehabilitate people instead of ignoring them or simply warehousing them.
 
Posing With the Trains
 The reformatory was never built. It had been proposed for Fairfield Avenue, an area of fine homes, then and now, in the South End of the city. Neighborhood residents protested, not against the reformatory but its location. "There was a lot of 'Nimby' then too," Trudy Jones said.
The most fascinating pictures are of the men who most interested Mr. McCook: the tramps, posing for the camera in a studio or with the trains that carried them from city to city.
And the question comes up: Did John McCook, the clergyman, the college professor, really want to be a tramp, a man free to go when he wanted and return when he wanted, without the constraints of the age in which he lived?
Trudy Jones has thought about that. "He probably would have loved being a tramp," she said. "But he couldn't be. He was caught up in the Victorian ideal: family, job, tradition. But he got to understand them and became sympathetic to them. He really lived his Christian faith."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "A Quintet of Lodgers" had their picture taken by C. T. Stuart at the Hartford police station in 1893. It was a Gilded Age, but not for all. (Pg. 1); Of the McCook family, Trudy K. Jones, said: "They kept diaries, journals, checkbook stubs, everything." (Pg. 15) (Photograph by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: RYAN, BILL; MCCOOK, JOHN JAMES (REV) JOHN JAMES MCCOOK (93%); BILL ASPINWALL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



189 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Q. & A.

 BODY:

Assessing Assessment By a Co-op
 
Q. When I bought my co-op apartment in 1988 I was informed that the board of directors would vote an assessment whenever some improvement had to be made in the building. What I was not told is that suddenly we would have an assessment every year. 
 In 1991 the board voted an assessment of $3 per share payable over three months. In 1992, there was a permanent 10 percent monthly increase. In 1993, there was an assessment of one month's maintenance payable over six months. This year, there will be an assessment of one and a half month's maintenance payable over seven months.
In four years, we have had three assessments and one increase. Only the first assessment was calculated according to the shares. Are these assessments legal? Have they been done properly? If not, what can we do? . . . Maria S. Mendonca, Jackson Heights, Queens.
 
A. They are all legal, said Charles Rappaport, president of the Federation of New York Housing Cooperatives, assuming that the board has adopted a budget that requires the increases because the co-op's income will not be enough to meet the projected expenses.
All the assessments have been calculated according to the number of shares an owner holds, Mr. Rappaport said, because maintenance is determined according to the number of shares, and everyone in a co-op should pay the same amount of maintenance per share.
"People pay different amounts, based on the value of the apartment, its size and location, but the amount is always proportionate to the number of shares one owns," he said. "It may be unfortunate that the economics of the co-op requires such increases, but they are legal."
 
Sublet Rights Of a Condo Owner
 
Q. As a nonresident condominium owner who rents to a tenant, I am required by the condo bylaws to file a lease with the managing agent, pay a fee on initial filing and another fee at each renewal. Why? I have title to and own the premises. Should I not be free to exercise the rights of ownership? Are not these bylaws restrictive of such rights? What if I choose to rent on a month-to-month basis with no lease? I opted for a condo rather than a co-op to avoid this sort of annoyance . . . Sheldon S. Sachs, Manhattan
 
A. Sorry, Mr. Sachs, but those are the facts of condominium life. "Although condominium ownership structure generally provides individual owners with more rights and more flexibility than co-ops do, a condominium owner nevertheless does subject him or herself to various restrictions set forth in the condo's declaration and bylaws," said Michael Finder, a Manhattan lawyer.
Those restrictions, Mr. Finder said, "generally include granting to the condo board a right of first refusal in connection with any sale or lease of a unit."
The condominium board, Mr. Finder said, cannot restrict the owner's right to sell a unit. "Unlike a co-op board," he said, "it can't just reject the potential buyer so the unit owner has to find another purchaser. It only has the right of first refusal. So if the board thinks the owner is selling or leasing far below the unit's value, or if it is unhappy with the prospective tenant or buyer, all the board may do is buy or lease the unit on the same terms or conditions. And that rarely happens."
With the right of first refusal, he said, "the condo board is entitled to request information, including a copy of the lease or contract for the rental or sale of the unit." A board, he said, is also generally entitled under standard bylaws to be paid administrative fees for processing such requests. "Although this may be viewed as burdensome by the letter writer," Mr. Finder said, "it does provide certain protection when other unit owners wish to lease or sell their unit. And a court is not likely to view the charging of an administrative fee for rental or renewal as unnecessarily restrictive."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BUDGETS (72%); LAWYERS (67%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL FINDER (80%); SHELDON S SACHS (57%); CHARLES RAPPAPORT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



190 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Does Sharpe James Retain Common Touch as Mayor of Newark?

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 7

 BODY:
The President was on the line to the Mayor of Newark. Could he, would he come to Washington, discuss the anti-crime bill, maybe stay the night?
Relishing the moment of two months ago, Sharpe James, president of the National League of Cities, occasional news-show guest and new Friend of Bill, chuckled at the President's politeness. 
 "When the president calls," said Mayor James, "you try to go."
So two months ago Mr. James went to Washington, where he slept in the Lincoln Bedroom, and later gave a fiery endorsement of the anti-crime bill. He was back at the White House last month and again two weeks ago.
In the last few years, the Mayor of this long-maligned city has become an increasingly popular figure on the national stage, a leading player on urban issues and a sought-after speaker.
"He's a great champion of cities and urban issues," said Donald J. Borut, executive director of the National League of Cities. "We have more requests for Sharpe to speak than I can remember. He's enormously popular."
And as his third bid for mayor winds to a close, the man who defeated the four-term incumbent, Kenneth Gibson, in 1986, then sailed to his second term unopposed, seems well positioned to remain leader of New Jersey's largest city for another four years. None of his three opponents has held elective office. None has come close to raising the $1.4 million he has for his campaign (his closest opponent has raised $36,000). None seems able to raise anti-incumbent murmurs to full pitch. Mayor James does not seem to be so much running for re-election as striding to certain victory on Tuesday.
Or is he?
In a way, Sharpe James is like Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York: often more popular in the nation than back home. Mr. James's critics say he devotes too much energy to defending Newark, almost to the point of self-parody, and not enough time planning for the city's poorest neighborhoods. They point to some of his properties -- the house along the shore, the one in Florida, the yacht -- as proof he is losing his common touch. People complain that he is away a lot; and who minds City Hall when he's gone?
In Newark, voter apathy is such that if few show up at the polls, the Mayor could be in trouble.
"I don't see a huge upswell of people fervently supporting anybody, which is why this race seems hard to gauge," said Rich Cammareri, executive director of the Newark Coalition of Neighborhoods.
Mayor James's challengers -- Colleen Walton, a podiatrist who moved to Newark from New York several years ago; Ras Baraka, an eighth-grade teacher and son of the poet Amiri Baraka, and William Payne, the brother of Newark's Congressman, Donald Payne, and head of a nonprofit youth-mentoring program -- say their campaigns have gained momentum in the last week.
"It's unfair that the press keeps saying there are no viable challengers," said Mr. Payne, who is considered the Mayor's chief rival. "We're getting all kinds of indications that the Mayor is going to be unseated."
 
A Curious Campaign
 No recent polls have been taken, so no one knows exactly what voters are thinking. The campaign has been a curious one, with opponents mainly squaring off in one raucous debate or forum after another stacked with the candidates' campaign workers.
But it does seem people have not made up their minds.
"I'm undecided," said Cynthia Brown, a receptionist at the co-op building where Mr. Payne and former Mayor Kenneth Gibson each live (and where Mr. James bought and sold a co-op as an investment).
"James has done some of what he said he was going to do," Ms. Brown said. "And he's already in, so I think a lot of people are just going to stay with him. He does have a lot of people on his side."
Among his friends in high places, Mr. James counts Henry G. Cisneros, who brought his commissioners from the Department of Housing and Urban Development several months ago for a public session where he delivered a $6 million check to Newark's public housing tenants. The Rev. Jesse Jackson was scheduled to visit Sunday for a pre-election breakfast.
But public endorsements from political figures are few and far between. The Rev. Al Sharpton, running for the United States Senate in New York, endorsed Mr. Baraka, not because he has known his father for years, he said, but because the younger Mr. Baraka is galvanizing young people to join the political process.
Turnout for elections in Newark is almost always low. Only 35 percent of the eligible voters are registered, and only 40 percent of those typically show up to vote in statewide and presidential elections. In March, the school board elections brought out 4 percent of the electorate, even though the system faces a state takeover.
 
Apathy Among Voters
 "There isn't much enthusiasm for this election, either," said Mgsr. William J. Lindner, founder of the New Community Corporation, a nonprofit organization that has built housing complexes for 5,000 people, health-care centers for the poor and a supermarket, among other things, in Newark's most desperate neighborhoods. "People on the City Council act as if they have a divine right to remain there, this even after three members of nine members of the cCouncil were indicted."
In March, the current and the former Newark Council presidents, Gary Harris and Ralph T. Grant Jr., respectively, were indicted on charges that they accepted bribes from a towing company seeking city contracts. Both seek re-election.
To Monsignor Lindner, the apathy is understandable given the state of the city. Newark surprised the nation, and itself, by winning an All-America Cities Award, and a most livable city award in 1992, the same year Mayor James was honored as a "most valuable public official" by City & State, a national newspaper for government officials. But Newark's vital statistics remain grim.
The city's per capita rate of AIDS infection is second only to that of New York City, and it has the highest rate of AIDS among women in the country. Unemployment hovers at about 15 percent, almost twice the state average. Crime continues to plague its neighborhoods. And not only is the school system in trouble, but the city's population, at about 268,000, is dropping faster than almost anywhere else in the state -- 15 percent since 1980.
 
A Tale of Two Newarks
 Many have seized on the notion of two Newarks. The outer one, seen by 250,000 commuters to the city each day, is graced with skyscrapers and $6 billion in new office construction since the mid-80s. The inner city, similar to ones across the country, is mired in poverty, drugs, teen-age pregnancy, homelessness and crime.
Judging from his demeanor on the campaign trail, Mr. James does not seem worried about Tuesday's vote. Tall and athletic, the 58-year-old former gym teacher and Essex County College coach demonstrates the same energetic, outgoing style that charmed voters into electing him Mayor in the first place.
After defeating Mayor Gibson with 56 percent of the vote in 1986, Mr. James's first campaign slogan -- "A Sharpe Change" has become "Sharpe Changes." He points to the construction of hundreds of units of new housing and the addition of more police officers to support that idea.
"We've built more houses and hired more police under the James administration than at any other time in the city's history," Mr. James said. "New housing in every ward of the city, new recreation for the kids." And car theft is down 35 percent.
Lately, he said, he has spent a good deal of energy preparing Newark's application for the Federal urban empowerment-zone program, which would bring the city $100 million in loans, tax incentives and direct aid.
 
'Things Are Changing'
 These are precisely the kind of programs Newark needs, said Ronald Rice, a State Senator and City Councilman, who considered a run against the Mayor. He decided to remain on the Council -- his re-election bid is unopposed -- and is actively supporting Mr. James's campaign.
"Things are changing," Mr. Rice said. "Maybe not to the degree and satisfaction that we hope for, but they are. When you look at Mayor James's ability to lead, I think if the taxpayers and public are honest about the candidates I think it's best for the city if the Mayor were to remain at City Hall, especially with Governor Whitman talking about cutting aid to cities."
Mr. James has become a wealthy man in his years in office. He makes about $115,000 in salary as Mayor. His wife, Mary, appointed to the state Violent Crimes Compensation Board by Gov. Jim Florio in 1991, makes $83,000 a year. In addition to the yacht, Mayor James owns or co-owns five properties, including one in a pleasant Newark neighborhood.
An article in the New Jersey Law Journal in February 1993 questioned how it happened. And while Mr. Payne has prodded Mayor James to release his tax forms, the Mayor has refused.
"I want to know where the allegations are here," Mr. James said. "So what? I own property. Didn't know it was a crime to own property."
Mr. Cammareri of the Coalition of Neighborhoods said people have heard about the Mayor's real estate but don't seem to consider it a real issue. "They want to know what's going to be done for the city," he said. "And by whom."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 1994, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the Mayor of Newark, Sharpe James, misstated the year that Newark received two awards. It was 1991, not 1992, when Newark won an All-America Cities award from the National Civil League and was honored as one of the nation's most livable cities by the United States Conference of Mayors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: During the last few years, Mayor Sharpe James of Newark has become an increasingly popular figure on the national stage, as a champion of urban issues. He spoke at a ceremony last week at City Hall in Newark. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (84%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (84%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MAYORS; ELECTIONS CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN; JAMES, SHARPE (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



191 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: VILLAGES, EAST AND WEST;
Cruising With the Decibels Down

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE 

 BODY:
It is Saturday night on Eighth Street and the rites of spring have commenced. Clusters of young women parade down the street, followed by groups of young men clutching 40-ounce bottles of beer or malt liquor in brown bags. The occasional Jeep or expensive sports car cruises by. But there are far fewer of the boomboxes that tormented residents last year, and those that remain are conspicuously quieter.
"They're getting the word," said Captain Peter Cassidy of the Sixth Precinct. For the last month, his officers have been engaged in Operation Soundtrap -- identifying vehicles playing stereos louder than 80 decibels -- on weekend evenings in the rectangle bounded by Eighth Street, Avenue of the Americas, Broadway and Bleecker Street. The increased police presence appears to have made a dent in the problem: last summer, in five test operations, 62 cars were seized as evidence; this year, in eight operations, only eight cars have been taken. 
 Greenwich Village has always drawn young people from all over, and the residents have tended to be tolerant. And as the Village's main commercial strip, Eighth Street has always been a bit of a youth-culture bazaar. But as the economic character of the area has changed, many local people say, so has the atmosphere on Eighth Street.
Tom Marcosson, president of the board of 2 Fifth Avenue, an apartment building that extends from Eighth Street to Washington Square, recalled that when he first came to the area as a New York University student in 1955, the street was dotted with cafes, bookstores and craft shops, as well as dry cleaners and other everyday businesses. But in the mid-1980's, soaring rents pushed out many of the old businesses, and shoe stores, with their fast turnover and youth appeal, moved in.
At the same time, crack took over Washington Square. When the park closed, at 11:30 P.M., the unruly crowds would spill onto Eighth Street, Mr. Marcosson said. "By last summer, Eighth Street became such an intimidating place for many residents, they were afraid to walk in the neighborhood."
The police say it was about three years ago that new crowds of youths began cruising Eighth Street, blaring rap music from boomboxes and giant car stereos and provoking more complaints about noise, public drinking, crowding, graffiti and public urination.
Police officials and store owners acknowledge that many of the newer young people are black and Hispanic, but they say people are reacting not out of racial fear but out of irritation about a declining quality of life.
The police have promised aggressive quality-of-life enforcement. And partly to tackle these problems, the Village Alliance Business Improvement District was established this year. The alliance's sanitation crew sweeps the whole district daily except Tuesdays, and specialists have steam-cleaned graffiti from facades and repainted security gates. Next weekend, the alliance's private security guard will hit the streets.
Many store owners are delighted by the changes, but at least one is worried. Jimmy Sheppard, a fashion designer who opened Shep's Nubian Fashions next door to Shakespeare's restaurant two years ago, says more police may scare business away.
"Maybe guys with their boomboxes look intimidating, but they're just trying to get the attention of local girls and trade beeper numbers," he said. "People who live here have to understand the Village is a landmark, a place for young people to hang out, and we must make allowances because they are the future." MARVINE HOWE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Operation Soundtrap in action recently on West Third Street. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VILLAGE ALLIANCE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: VILLAGE ALLIANCE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; GREENWICH VILLAGE (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NOISE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) DISORDERLY CONDUCT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); TRENDS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); NOISE POLLUTION (76%); YOUTH MARKET (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); SHOE STORES (64%); BOOKSTORES (64%); FOOTWEAR (63%); RAP MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: HOWE, MARVINE MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994



192 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MELROSE;
At Melrose Court, Progress in Shades of Teal

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
For 14 years, Crucita and Abraham Rivera lived in a bleak three-bedroom apartment in a sprawling building in East Tremont where hypodermic syringes littered the stairwells, drug dealers loitered in the hallways and falling asleep to the sound of gunfire was a way of life.
In December, the Riveras joined legions of others who over the last decade have bought the new homes that have begun to tranform sections of the South Bronx. Their only regret is that their four grown children are not with them to share the dream. 
 The Riveras' new two-bedroom condominium town house is in Melrose Court, a high-density development with balconies, patios and grassy interior courtyards with benches, walkways, trees and lampposts. Bright teal canopies grace the stairway entrances to many of the 265 two- and three-bedroom town houses on St. Ann's Avenue between 156th and 159th Streets. Security gates surround the 4.5-acre development not far from the Hub, the central business district in Melrose.
"We have less space, but we feel safer," said Mrs. Rivera, 52 years old, a housewife whose husband works as a nurse's aide at Bellevue Hospital.
The development, a $25 million public-private venture, is the city's latest foray into the thorny issue of affordable housing in the South Bronx. Urban renewal in the 40's and 50's tended to produce towering public housing developments. But after social ills remained unchecked, such developments lost popularity, and the trend went toward low-density projects like Charlotte Gardens, Salters Square and the Nehemiah Houses. Now, developers are mixing high- and low-density housing, spread out in relatively low buildings like Melrose Court.
As a result, the neighborhood has become a landscape of houses, town houses, tenements and dilapidated buildings. Some residents and officials criticize the mixture as a hodgepodge, while others embrace it.
"Our effort is to mix density and provide a fabric for the community -- not Levittown," said Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer. "We have proven that all types of housing are marketable to a class of homeowner that already exists in the Bronx. What we seek is the economic integration of the community to avoid economic ghettoization."
At Melrose Court, all but about 10 units have been sold, said Marvin H. Meltzer, the Manhattan-based architect who designed the development, considered a prototype for future affordable housing ventures in the South Bronx. It recently received the 1994 Pillars of the Industry Award.
The project was built by the Procida Construction Corporation of the Bronx, which has produced 2,000 housing units in the area since 1984, in conjunction with the City Department of Housing Preservation and Development, the Bronx Shepherds Restoration Corporation and the New York City Housing Partnership.
Nearby, plans are under way for Melrose Commons, a 2,000-unit project that is part of a proposal to revitalize 200 square blocks with the construction of new homes, apartments and businesses.
"I grew up in the South Bronx," said Rosa Rivera (no relation to Crucita or Abraham), 34, a school crossing guard who moved into Melrose Court in January with her 13-year-old daughter after spending years in a cramped apartment in University Heights. "Now, I've moved back in style. I have a patio and I can't believe it." LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

GRAPHIC: Photos: Melrose Court, a high-density, low-rise development with balconies, patios and grassy courtyards. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); Abraham Rivera (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BRONX SHEPHERDS RESTORATION CORP (64%); MELROSE COURT (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: MELROSE COURT (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (67%); NURSES & NURSING (66%); 

PERSON: RIVERA, ABRAHAM; RIVERA, CRUCITA ABRAHAM RIVERA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994



193 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14; Page 12; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Client Aid; Legalities and Practicalities

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:
ASSUMING you can find someone, which often isn't easy, hiring domestic help can be a tricky proposition.
Hiring a self-employed cleaning person (someone not affiliated with a service) to clean a one-bedroom apartment in New York City costs an average of $40 to $50. Hiring someone from a service can cost $55 to $70. 
 Whether it's worth the difference is a matter of personal choice. But a service does offer certain advantages.
For one thing, a service generally accepts liability for anything that is broken or missing. "We are responsible for our maids," said Chris McLaughlin, vice president of McMaid, a national service based in Manhattan that has more than 100 employees.
Perhaps more important, a service takes care of sales and Social Security taxes, bonding and liability insurance, worker's compensation and disability and health insurance for the workers.
The law requires that if you pay someone cash wages of $50 or more over three months, you are considered the employer and so are responsible for all the usual tax filing requirements.
"And if you try to get around it, you are breaking the law and will have to pay penalties and fines in the future when caught," said Frank Keith, a spokesman for the Internal Revenue Service.
Many people, of course, do not comply and avoid being caught, although the issue of compliance with these and related regulations has come under increased scrutiny since two of President Clinton's Attorney General nominees were forced to step aside.
Following are steps to take if hiring a self-employed cleaning person:
* Get an Employer Identification Number from the I.R.S. by filing Form SS-4.
* To verify that the employee is eligible to work in the United States, file Form I-9 with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Even if the employee is in this country illegally, the tax obligations are the same. But since it is illegal to hire such a person, anyone who does so faces penalties ranging from $250 to $3,000.
Rick Kenney, a public affairs specialist at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, acknowledged that many people hire illegal immigrants. And in the vast majority of cases, they do so without getting caught. "We wouldn't have any way to find out if the law was broken unless someone complained," he said.
* The wages paid must be reported by the employee on Federal, state and local income tax returns. You are not required to withhold income tax on these wages, but you can do so at the employee's request.
* You must withhold Social Security tax if you pay the worker more than $50 in a three-month period. For the exact amount to withhold, ask the I.R.S. for Circular E, Employer's Tax Guide (publication 15). About 6.2 percent is withheld, matched by the employer and sent in quarterly.
* You must also pay New York State unemployment insurance taxes if you pay the worker more than $500 in a three-month period .
* Liability and disability insurance is not required unless someone works for you for more than 40 hours a week.
The I.R.S. explains these steps in Publication 27, "What You Need to Know if You Hire Domestic Help." Phone: (800) 462-8100. MONIQUE P. YAZIGI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC SERVICE TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); TAX WITHHOLDING (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); IMMIGRATION (85%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (75%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (69%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994



194 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Long Branch Journal;
Mayoral Campaign Threatens to Divide City

BYLINE: By ARTHUR Z. KAMIN 

DATELINE: LONG BRANCH

 BODY:
THIS historic oceanside city, which recently quelled what the police called a drug-related riot and is struggling to regain its economic health, is in the throes of an often bitter mayoral and Council election campaign. Some complain that the campaign is only further dividing the 28,700 residents and stalling a revitalization plan for the city.
The nonpartisan election, to be held on Tuesday, has drawn regional attention. It pits a councilman, the brother of a powerful member of Congress who also is the Democratic political leader here, against an incumbent mayor, who says the two have teamed up to defeat him. 
 "I'll be glad when this campaign is over so we can get back to the business of trying to improve Long Branch," said Frederick A. Eyerman, the owner of the Coast Hardware store on Broadway. "There's a lot of work to be done, and all of that sniping doesn't help things." He is concerned, he said, that crime has been raised as the major political issue and is driving away his customers.
Robert J. Furlong Jr., an Ocean Township clothing company owner, is the president of Long Branch Tomorrow, a group of business, professional and governmental leaders seeking to draw up a growth blueprint for the city's 5.2-mile-long beachfront area. "I guarantee you, on the day after the voting, our organization will be back operating at 100 percent," he said. "Right now, some people are afraid to take sides and are waiting to see who wins."
Seeking re-election is Mayor Adam Schneider, a 39-year-old lawyer who came into office in 1990 as part of a so-called "clean sweep" ticket that pledged reform and financial stability for this five-mile-square city.
One of Mr. Schneider's running mates elected to the Council in 1990 was John Pallone, 38, the owner of a New York City video production company and the younger brother of Representative Frank Pallone Jr.. The Congressman represents the Sixth District and will be seeking his party's primary election nod on June 7.
John Pallone, now a mayoral candidate, proclaimed crime as his central campaign issue and charged that it increased 16 percent under Mr. Schneider. He mailed out fliers to residents saying, "We shouldn't be prisoners in our own homes." He wants the Police Department reorganized and the public safety director replaced.
Mr. Schneider said John Pallone was "lying, using scare tactics to gain votes, and threatening the image of Long Branch."
Patrick E. Caron, the director of public safety and a 20-year police veteran, cited the New Jersey State Police Uniform Crime Report, from January through October 1993, showing that the total crime index -- a summary of seven major offense categories -- is down 14.5 percent. Violent crime was down 22 percent, he said, and nonviolent crime down 13 percent.
Michael A. Rescinio, an accountant and president of the 150-member Greater Long Branch Chamber of Commerce, said John Pallone had seized on an "emotional issue and it is hurting Long Branch." Mr. Rescinio added, "From what I see, the police are doing a good job in fighting a problem that is not only in Long Branch but all around us."
In the midst of the campaign came a three-hour melee, on Feb. 21, involving what the police described as a hostile, bottle-throwing crowd of 300 people. The police linked the melee to stepped-up efforts to arrest drug dealers. Two officers were injured and two vacant houses burned. Five businesses were damaged, and two police cars and a fire truck vandalized. Mayor Schneider imposed an 8 P.M. to 6 A.M. emergency curfew. Five people were arrested.
The Mayor said that he did not want to minimize the existing crime situation and that steps were being taken to correct it in the city, which is Monmouth County's largest urban municipality.
Mr. Schneider, also a Democrat, said: "The real issue in the campaign is that Frank Pallone wants to gain complete, total political control in Long Branch, and the only way he can do that is to have his brother as Mayor." He said the Representative had objected to several of his appointments and become angry with him because he had other people in mind for the posts.
Frank Pallone, a former Councilman here and a former State Senator, denied that and said he, indeed, was active in his brother's campaign. He added he was raising campaign funds and using his influence to assist him.
He called Mr. Schneider "a dismal failure" as Mayor. He said his brother was correct in bringing up the crime issue. "It's real," he said. "Things are so bad I'm afraid to go out of my Long Branch office alone at night." He said those who downplay crime "are sweeping it under the rug."
John Pallone would not comment on his brother's campaign involvement.
Meantime, the city is starting to make what Frank R. Gaynor, general manager of the Ocean Place Hilton Resort and Spa on the oceanfront,called "remarkable progress." The hotel has become the city's redevelopment anchor. And the Monmouth Medical Center, with 2,200 employees and a $76 million yearly payroll, is planning to build a multistory, $6.5 million parking garage.
The state has approved Urban Enterprise Zone status, which, with its tax breaks for consumers and employers, is expected to give a boost to the shabby downtown business district with its empty storefronts. The West End commercial area has attracted trendy, upscale shops and new restaurants. About $6 million in state and Federal grants and loans is coming in for housing and open space acquisition.
It was last summer that John Pallone decided he wanted to be the city's Mayor -- no surprise, observers say, because the unity of the "clean sweep" team had evaporated midway into the term. John Pallone vigorously began challenging Mr. Schneider on many issues.
It set the stage for what Michael J. Booth, publisher of The Atlanticville, the local weekly newspaper, called the "hardest-fought election I have ever seen, with stakes very, very high for Long Branch in the critical years ahead."
Controversy is also swirling around Mr. Booth and his 10,000-circulation newspaper over the campaign's coverage -- much of it, he said, coming from the Pallones and their lawyer, who have threatened suits over articles and pictures. "They want to control The Atlanticville," Mr. Booth said.
Frank Pallone said there was "no question The Atlanticville is biased against me and my brother." He said he did call Mr. Booth on occasion, but only to get "a fair shake."
There are two other mayoral candidates -- Councilman Michael L. Palughi and Harold F. Cooper. Mr. Palughi, 68, is a retired firefighter who was also a member of the "clean sweep" team. He said the job needs a "full-time Mayor, someone with maturity and experience."
Mr. Cooper, 46, is a Board of Education bus driver. He is black and said the other aspirants "do not relate to the minority community," which makes up about 19 percent of the population. He is a write-in candidate.
Fourteen candidates, two of them incumbents, are running for the five four-year Council openings. The Mayor receives $6,000 in annual salary. Council members each earn $3,500.
Frank Pallone, a lawyer, serves in the realigned Sixth District, which encompasses 26 Monmouth municipalities and 13 in Middlesex. He had a hard fight in a Democratic primary in 1992 but emerged victorious and then won handily in the general election. Long Branch, the Pallone hometown, is considered a Democratic stronghold by about a 4 to 1 margin.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ocean Place Hilton Resort and Spa, above in background. At left, a City Council meeting with, from left, Mayor Adam Schneider, Councilman Michael DeStefano, Councilman John Pallone and Councilman Michael L. Palughi. (Photographs by Sam D'Amico for The New York Times)
 
Map of Monmouth County New Jersey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG BRANCH (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; CITY COUNCILS; ELECTION ISSUES MAYORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CRIME STATISTICS (72%); APPAREL MFG (71%); LAWYERS (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: KAMIN, ARTHUR Z FRANK PALLONE JR (79%); BARNEY FRANK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



195 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 12; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Professional Soccer Comes to the County

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
WHEN Bob Butler was a child in England, he started playing soccer. "I was 4 or 5, and I played the game enthusiastically until I was 35 years old," he said. "Soccer was my game and a great one it is. Outside of the United States, it is the most popular game in the world. But over the last decade there has been a tremendous growth in youth soccer here, with 1 out of 4 American kids now playing the game. So I feel that this is the right time to bring professional soccer back to the New York region."
It is to that end that Mr. Butler, a multifaceted businessman, has organized a professional soccer team, the New York Fever, which is New York's first professional soccer team since the demise of the Cosmos. And Mr. Butler has chosen Westchester as the home for the new team. The New York Fever will play its 12 home games at Barrett Stadium at Westchester Community College in Valhalla, with the first home game against the Delaware Wizards scheduled next Saturday at 5 P.M. 
 "The New York Fever represents the Empire State in the United States Interregional Soccer League, which has 72 teams divided into 8 regional groups," Mr. Butler said. "The U.S.I.S.L. was founded in 1986 by its commissioner, Francisco Marcos, who has set two main goals for the league: grass-roots ownership and organization for the teams and a stable environment for the nurturing of young players."
 
International Representation
 Observing that it has been a decade since New York has had a professional soccer team, Mr. Butler said, "In New York, with a million registered student and amateur soccer players, a whole generation of kids have never been able to see a live pro soccer game."
Referring to the fact that the Meadowlands is to be the site of World Cup matches this summer, Mr. Butler continued: "That event will certainly stimulate further interest in soccer, especially among the young. The organization and development of youth leagues, similar to baseball farm systems, is one of our goals. We have a strong commitment to youth soccer. Ultimately, we will have 10 youth teams. We already have a camp program, for kids 7 to 17 in place for this summer at three sites in Westchester and one in Fairfield County."
The Fever roster, he said, is made up of players with international representation, including those with World Cup experience. Coaches with national honors will direct the soccer camp programs.
"I call soccer the health food of major sports, because it's safe, not violent," he said. "Injuries are not major, and soccer is terrific exercise. Unlike baseball, every kid on the team has to run around."
Another plus, he said, is that soccer is comparatively inexpensive. "It costs about $50 to outfit a kid handsomely," Mr. Butler said. "Compare that with the hundreds of dollars spent on football gear."
 
Toy Company Employee
 The number of people involved with soccer in the United States has risen in a decade to almost 60 million from 19 million. "There are more American colleges today with soccer than with football," Mr. Butler said. "Women are also playing, and they are good. The United States International Ladies Team was world champions in Switzerland in 1992."
Now in his late 50's, Mr. Butler, a mechanical engineer by profession, first arrived in the United States after he was recruited by the Mattell toy company in California. Eventually, he became president of Marx Toys, when it was based in Stamford. He left Marx in 1976 to go into business for himself. "For years here and in England, I had been an investor and a silent partner in several restaurants," he said. "And the business intrigued me. So 17 years ago I bought the Spinning Wheel Restaurant in Redding, Conn., which was built in 1746. We did a major rehab, and it has been a successful enterprise for 17 years."
But it was through the toy business, he said, that he got into the world of international soccer.
"Marx Toys has one of the licenses for the N.A.S.L. and the great Pele was one of the licensees, so I was close to professional soccer and the Cosmos for 14 years," he said. "Why did they fail? Well, for one thing, when they started playing it was a different time. There was still a sense that soccer was a foreign sport. Then the team management insisted on playing in the big leagues in a stadium at the Meadowlands in New Jersey, which holds 80,000, when they rarely had an audience of more than 20,000. So the effect was negative. It looked like an unpopular sport with so few people in a huge stadium. And then, they didn't reach out and set up youth teams, which is an important factor."
 
$30 for a Family Outing
 Soccer, Mr. Butler said, should be enjoyable, affordable and convenient for all family members.
"Our aim is to make it possible for a family of four consisting of two parents with two children -- one under 6 who doesn't pay admission, to enjoy a day out for less than $30, that includes admission, parking, program, drinks and snacks," he said. "By contrast attending a baseball game with the same features costs a family $115."
The Fever head coach, George Vizvary, will be in charge of the Fever soccer camps and of developing boys youth teams in Manhattan and Westchester, Putnam, Dutchess, Rockland and Fairfield Counties. A woman's team and an indoor team are also being planned for next season.
"The concept is to create broad interest in all family members by participation or viewing from the sidelines," Mr. Butler said. And the prospect of a multigenerational audience for soccer, he said, has proved an effective marketing tool. "We have been able to attract some terrific sponsors who like the concept," he said. "For instance, we are the only club to be chosen by Nike in the league as its exclusive equipment supplier. Our Westchester sponsors include Pepsi Bottling Company, Ramada Inn, the White Plains Bus Company, Westchester County and the Pontiac Dealers of Westchester."
 
Lucrative Franchises
 And most Fever investors, he added, also come from the county. "So far 19 investors have taken a piece of Fever," he said. "Because individual investors are restricted from owning more than 10 percent, the amount they put in, ranging from $5,000 to $50,000, is relatively modest for an investment in a major sports franchise. We have 24 investors as our limit."
How valuable can such an investment be?
"Sports franchises can be very lucrative," Mr. Butler said. "For example, if you had invested $10,000 20 years ago in the New York Giants, you would be a multimillionaire today." And the investment the team is making in Westchester, he added, will add considerably to the local economy.
"Not only will we, for example, be buying goods and services here such as $45,000 to $50,000 for local advertising but we will also be hiring caterers, using area hotels, paying rent for new offices in Mamaroneck and the salaries of the 35 people that we are hiring for the stadium.
"In addition, every home game will bring in new business to the county since we exchange 88 tickets with other teams, and we expect those people will come, and with them visiting supporters. All of them will require lodgings and meals. And they will patronize the shops."
Westchester County officials agree. Phillipe M. Gille, senior executive assistant to County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke said, "The arrival of the New York Fever, the first professional soccer team in Westchester, gives us new opportunities for recreation, and an added plus is the spinoff in economic activity. And the college will also benefit from improvements that will be made to Barrett Stadium."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York Fever practices at Iona College for season at Westchester Community College. Coach George Vizvary watches two of the team's players, Jim Daka and Jim McElderry. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK FEVER; UNITED STATES INTERREGIONAL SOCCER LEAGUE NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); WESTCHESTER COMMUNITY COLLEGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK FEVER; UNITED STATES INTERREGIONAL SOCCER LEAGUE WESTCHESTER COMMUNITY COLLEGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER SOCCER (98%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); YOUTH SPORTS (89%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (67%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; BUTLER, BOB

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



196 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Madrid Weathers a String of Scandals

BYLINE: By Ana Westley 

DATELINE: MADRID

 BODY:
MADRID'S stock market was shaken last week by corruption scandals that rocked the Spanish Government, prompting fears of prolonged financial panic. In fact, the opposite happened. After two days of steep plunges, the market began bouncing back once Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez made clear that he had no intention of resigning. Although analysts do not rule out further volatility, most feel that Madrid's Bolsa index will continue to rise as the economy improves. For all the ups and downs, there are still good buys for those in for the long run.
The market in Madrid, which enjoyed gains of over 50 percent in 1993 and a big surge this January, has behaved much like other European markets of late. It plunged over concern about rising interest rates in the United States, and recovered with cuts in Spain's own domestic rates. 
 Most brokerage companies bet that the Madrid index, which ended last year at 322.77, will surpass its January record of 358 before year's end. On Friday, it closed at 318.22, still below the level of the week before.
But Spanish politics provide no lack of thrills and spills. Madrid's market reeled last week in response to a succession of corruption scandals that created a sensation of imminent political instability. But the evidence now is that some foreign investors seized the opportunity to step in and buy what jittery locals dumped.
From an investor's viewpoint political events hardly looked encouraging: The former governor of the Bank of Spain, Mariano Rubio, and the former chairman of the Madrid stock exchange, Manuel de la Concha, were arrested and jailed on charges of tax fraud. A former national police chief accused of embezzling millions of dollars went on the run. And two Government ministers and two members of Parliament resigned.
"Naturally, with these daily installments in the press and political uncertainty, the markets get very nervous," said Jose Sevilla of FG Inversiones Bursatiles, a Madrid brokerage firm that deals often with foreign investors. But Mr. Sevilla, and other dealers, blamed most of the nervousness on edgy Spanish investors, not foreign ones.
"Domestic investors are relatively new in the stock market," Mr. Sevilla said, "and they are afraid that the foreigners are going to pull out as the corruption scandals hit the foreign press."
With interest rates falling, market watchers here say, Spanish institutional investors only jumped into the market late last year, according to most market watchers. Equity trading volume for the first three months of 1994 more than doubled over that of 1993.
"Domestic investors were just convincing themselves that it was time to buy stock portfolios, and now they fear they had been caught holding the bag," said Amadeo Reynes, of Analistas Financieros Internacionales, a financial consulting firm.
But on the bond market, which is more affected by foreign investment, interest rates on 10-year bonds, which had dropped to as low as 7.75 percent in January, soared back up to nearly 10 percent on Thursday before settling back to 9.65 percent by Friday.
At an investment seminar here last week, Finance Minister Pedro Solbes urged foreign fund managers "not to analyze the situation through the foam of corruption, which is hiding the reality of the country, which is frankly very good."
The growth in Spain's gross domestic product in the first quarter -- up at an annualized rate of 1 percent -- confirmed dealers' confidence in economic recovery. Last year, the economy contracted by 1 percent. The Government now estimates that it will grow by 1.3 percent in 1994. Indicators from car sales to housing starts and exports also point toward recovery. Tourism, a major source of foreign income, is expected to break all records this summer.
Despite market swings, traders see some abiding investment opportunities in Spain. For uncertain times, traders recommend electric utilities, the traditional refuge of long-term investors. The giant state electrical utility, Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A., or Endesa, is always popular. So is the smaller Catalonian utility Fecsa.
In banking stocks, analysts are hard put to explain the practically unstoppable rise of shares in Banco Espanol de Credito, or Banesto, which have soared 57 percent in value since the troubled bank was acquired by Banco Santander less than two weeks ago. No dealer recommends it, but the stock continues to climb while Santander's equity value has slid.
"Technically, it's impossible to understand how Banesto can be worth more than Santander's purchase price," said Jaime Smith of Benito y Monjardin, a brokerage firm. Buyers beware.
Traders see Banco Popular, Spain's fifth largest bank and its most profitable, as a better buy, along with the state-controlled bank Argentaria as well as Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, the rival bidder that lost out on the Banesto bid.
Mr. Sevilla of FG Inversiones likes Acerinox, an export-oriented company in stainless steel, and picks out Vidrala, a glass maker that exports bottles to France, as a good bet for this year. Vidrala is expected to post a 40 percent increase in profits this year.
Clive Heathcote of AB Asesores, another brokerage firm, suggests Uralita, a construction supply company, as a good risk/reward stock. But Mr. Smith warns investors to be careful with construction companies that are overdue for profit taking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); 

COMPANY: FG INVERSIONES BURSATILES SA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN; SPAIN (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SCANDALS (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHICS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TAX FRAUD (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ARRESTS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); TAX LAW (63%); POLICE FORCES (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); GOVERNORS (54%); 

PERSON: JOSE SEVILLA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



197 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: Profile;
Building a Chemical Empire on the Industry's Castoffs

BYLINE: By KATHRYN JONES 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY

 BODY:
WHEN the going gets tough for industrial companies, the Utah billionaire Jon M. Huntsman hops in his jet and goes hunting. Chemicals are his game, and he has built the nation's largest privately held chemical business by snapping up premium properties at low prices when the industry goes into one of its periodic recessions and big corporations unload chemical assets.
These days, he is taking aim at some huge targets. In late April, Mr. Huntsman, chairman and chief executive of the Huntsman Companies, completed the largest and perhaps riskiest deal of his life. He and Kerry Packer, one of Australia's richest men, paid $860 million for Texaco Inc.'s worldwide petrochemical operations. The acquisition will almost double the size of his family business, to about $3.4 billion in annual revenues. 
 Then last week Mr. Huntsman disclosed that he was in talks to acquire at least part of the chemical operations of another American company, which he would not identify.
The timing of these deals -- in the midst of the worst chemical downturn in recent memory -- is vintage Huntsman. He has often gone against conventional wisdom, buying when others are selling and lying low when plants are humming and prices high.
"We think that once again, as we did in the 1980's, we can catch the market upswing, repay our debt and move up," Mr. Huntsman said in his 20th-story office in downtown Salt Lake City, an office filled with mementos from his stint as White House staff secretary for Richard M. Nixon and trips to Britain and the former Soviet Union with his mentor, the late industrialist Armand Hammer. A huge photograph of his nine children and two dozen grandchildren covers a wall.
Mr. Huntsman's scrappiness and habit of watching every penny has deep roots. Born in Blackfoot, Idaho, in the heart of potato country, Mr. Huntsman dug potatoes and did odd jobs to help his father, a music teacher, and his mother make ends meet. He heard stories about two of his great-great-grandfathers, who crossed the mountains on wagon trains with the Mormon visionary Brigham Young in the 1840's and later became astute businessmen in the Utah territory. These stories stuck with him even after the family moved to Palo Alto, Calif., so his father could pursue a doctorate in education at Stanford.
After winning a scholarship from the Crown Zellerbach paper company to the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business, Mr. Huntsman thought his destiny lay in the paper business. But after marrying his childhood sweetheart, Karen, he ended up working at his wife's uncle's egg distribution company -- and scored his first success.
Noticing that the cardboard egg cartons leaked, Mr. Huntsman developed a plastic version. The business took off and was bought by Dow Chemical in 1965, bringing him a nice profit. Mr. Huntsman, who had harbored dreams of being an entrepreneur, formed his own business making plastic packaging, including containers for fast-food products like McDonald's "clamshell" burger box. In 1970 he sold that company and started over, sowing the seeds of his current empire.
Despite his global deal-making, Mr. Huntsman is a reserved, soft-spoken man. His life revolves around his church (he's a devout Mormon), family, business and philanthropy. Four of his six sons work in the company, as do some church members.
Mr. Huntsman has had a brush with mortality recently -- a cancerous prostate was removed in 1992 and he has mouth cancer, which is in remission -- and friends say this has made him more introspective and has driven him to leave something more behind than a business. One of his passions: to find a cure for cancer, which killed both his parents. His family has given $10 million for a cancer research center at the University of Utah, and Mr. Huntsman plans to do more.
Around the end of the decade, Mr. Huntsman vows to cash in his holdings and use a big chunk of the proceeds to create a major charitable foundation in the Ford and Carnegie tradition. All the details have not been worked out, but Mr. Huntsman said he wants it to be run by family members over many generations and focus on areas like cancer research, children's medicine and the homeless.
"To me it's paying dues," Mr. Huntsman said. "I have been blessed with this company."
MR. HUNTSMAN does have a few critics -- on both the philanthropic and the business fronts. When the family gave $60,000 in 1982 to fight the legalization of parimutuel betting on horse races in Utah, a referendum opposed by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, its backers accused the Mormon church and Mr. Huntsman of collusion. In response to such criticism, Mr. Huntsman said: "Nobody has to tell me that I'm opposed to gambling in Utah."
And environmentalists have targeted Huntsman, as well as other chemical companies, for making products that create trash that isn't biodegradable, like polystyrene and other plastic packaging. Huntsman is one of several chemical companies that have formed joint ventures in recent years to recycle polystyrene.
Mr. Huntsman assembled his collection of companies by betting on turnarounds and sticking out tough times. Once he even pledged his house as partial collateral to acquire Shell Oil's polystyrene plant. That 1982 acquisition started the Huntsman Chemical Corporation -- which makes raw materials like polystyrene, polypropylene and other plastics.
A separate company, the Huntsman Packaging Corporation -- whose products include packaging for meat, cheese and produce and plastic bags for frozen food and bread -- has bought businesses from Goodyear, Mobil Chemical and Hoechst-Celanese.
The family owns 60 percent of the chemical company, 80 percent of a specialty chemicals business and all of the packaging operation.
The recently acquired Texaco Chemical Company, which makes a range of products including propylene, ethylene, lubricants and fuel additives and which is now a separate company called the Huntsman Corporation, will give Mr. Huntsman's chemical operations greater diversity and make it one of the largest suppliers of raw materials for products like soaps, detergents, mouthwash and toothpaste.
Yet analysts and even Mr. Huntsman say the latest industry downturn, which began in late 1989, has been deeper and longer than expected because so many companies built new petrochemical plants in the 1980's. Dozens of companies have reshuffled or cut back chemical operations.
When the Texaco acquisition was announced in September, some analysts questioned whether Mr. Huntsman had paid too much, too soon, not sure whether a rebound was imminent.
BUT Mr. Huntsman's timing may be on the money again, analysts say. Mr. Huntsman said he noticed the first price increases on chemical products in March. And analysts say the industry has hit bottom and is on a "slow turn," although they caution that it will take several years to make a sharp turnaround.
Jake Garn, the former Utah Senator, who is a vice chairman of the Huntsman Companies, said Mr. Huntsman seems to have an instinct for timing. "He sees the big picture," Mr. Garn said. "He's not one to say, 'What's the market today or tomorrow or even next year.' "
Since the Huntsman companies are private, they do not disclose earnings. But analysts say Mr. Huntsman has a good record of turning around unprofitable operations like the Texaco unit. His typical strategy is to cut redundant administrative costs, close inefficient plants and fine-tune operations so plants run more efficiently.
"He's going to be more aggressive in running it efficiently," said George J. Krug, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. "He will be a tough competitor."
Mr. Huntsman said $28 million had already been cut from the Texaco unit's costs by cutting redundant jobs, and he said an additional $20 million could be saved on buying raw materials. "Everything Texaco Chemical bought was sold to them by Texaco Inc.," Mr. Huntsman said. "Now we can go into the open market."
Mr. Huntsman surprised some observers with his choice of Mr. Packer as a partner. Mr. Packer, who controls Consolidated Press Holdings from Sydney, has a reputation for flamboyancy and a fondness for gambling and playing polo. The two met when Mr. Huntsman bought half of Consolidated's Chemplex division last year and became fast, if unlikely, friends.
"Kerry Packer and I are, to some extent, strange bedfellows," Mr. Huntsman said, but added, "I would trust him with my life."
The two billionaires originally planned to split the Texaco venture 50-50. Then, at Mr. Huntsman's suggestion, they changed the split to give the Huntsmans 80 percent. That and other factors delayed the scheduled January closing for several months.
As a result, they got caught in the middle of the volatility that saw interest rates climb sharply on high-yield bonds, which Mr. Huntsman used for the first time to finance part of the acquisition. But Texaco agreed to $52 million in discounts over the next two years to offset the higher interest rates.
Mr. Huntsman, who has a reputation for being straightforward in his business dealings and for calling or meeting personally with customers, employees and associates, said he called Mr. Packer shortly after the Texaco acquisition was announced.
"I said, 'Kerry, this is not going to work. You're independent, and so am I,' " Mr. Huntsman recalls. " 'Since this is an industry where we've bet our guns and yours is in mostly newspapers and magazines, I think it would make the partnership stronger if it was an 80-20 relationship.' He said, 'You're absolutely right. You're too old to have someone looking over your shoulder, and so am I.' "
 
Jon M. Huntsman
 
 Born: June 21, 1937; Blackfoot, Idaho.
 
 Education: B.A., Wharton School of Business; M.B.A., University of Southern California.
 
 Drives: Range Rover.
 
 Family: He and his wife, Karen, have nine children -- ranging in age from 34 to 19 -- and 24 grandchildren.
 
 Recent reading: "Den of Thieves: Memoirs of Seven Years," by Terry Anderson; "Poor Richard's Legacy," by Peter Baida.
 
 Products that launched his career: Plastic egg carton and plastic "clamshell" burger container.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A profile last Sunday about the Utah billionaire Jon M. Huntsman misidentified a book he had recently read. It is "Den of Lions: Memoirs of Seven Years," by Terry Anderson.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jon M. Huntsman and his wife, Karen, at an Australian chemical plant. (Huntsman Chemical Company); Mr. Huntsman with a display of some of his companies' products. (Don Grayston for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (70%); DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (88%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HUNTSMAN COS CHEVRON CORP (70%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUNTSMAN COS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (88%); UTAH, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); FAMILY (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); GRANDPARENTS (74%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (72%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); PAPER WHOLESALERS (63%); PAPER & PACKAGING (63%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (60%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: JONES, KATHRYN; HUNTSMAN, JON M; HUNTSMAN, JON M (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) PETER R HUNTSMAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



198 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: Accentuating the Positive

BYLINE: By John B. Judis; John B. Judis, a contributing editor of The New Republic, is the author, most recently, of "Grand Illusion: Critics and Champions of the American Century."

 BODY:

NIXON
A Life.
By Jonathan Aitken.
Illustrated. 633 pp. Washington:
Regnery Publishing. $28. 
 IN Richard Nixon's heyday we argued about whether there was really a new Nixon or merely the old. Now, in the wake of his death, we will be debating whether the good Nixon outweighed the bad. Jonathan Aitken, a Tory member of Parliament who played a personal role in Nixon's rehabilitation after Watergate, has written a biography of the late President that places him in the most positive light. If Nixon's biographies are arranged on a favorability scale of 1 to 10, with Nixon's own memoirs at a 10 and the post-Watergate psychohistories at a 1, then Mr. Aitken's book ranks as a 9.
Mr. Aitken makes a case that Nixon was the "most innovative and successful foreign-policy President of the 20th century" and that he is either blameless or deserving of praise for many of the actions he has been condemned for, from his conduct in the 1946 Congressional campaign to his 1972 Christmas bombing of North Vietnam. Mr. Aitken contends that the Watergate burglary and its cover-up were peccadilloes for which Nixon should not have been driven from office. "The forcing of Nixon's resignation was a political overreaction, a human injustice and a strategic mistake," he writes.
"Nixon: A Life" brings considerable new material to bear on this thesis. While Nixon refused to see respectable but potentially critical biographers like Stephen E. Ambrose and Roger Morris, he granted Mr. Aitken, who arranged a triumphal post-Watergate visit to Britain for him in 1978, extensive access to his person and papers and encouraged his family and close friends to talk to him. None of Mr. Aitken's material is earthshaking, but it allows us to see the man better -- particularly his relationship with his mother and his feelings of estrangement from the Eastern upper classes. Because of this material and because of Mr. Aitken's lively style, anyone interested in Nixon will profit from this biography, regardless of whether, like me, they disagree with many of the author's analyses.
Mr. Aitken is on the firmest ground in his assessment of Nixon as a foreign policy maker. I might take the two Roosevelts over Nixon in this regard, but certainly no one else. During Nixon's "Wilderness Years," from 1963, when he moved to New York to practice law, to 1968, when he was elected the 37th President, he developed the ability to form judgments about world history without the taint of passing partisan prejudices or preconceptions. He was able to see through the cold war to a new "structure of peace" based on the balance of power rather than on a quasi-religious conflict between good and evil.
The book doesn't discuss it, but Nixon also displayed surprising skill in international economic policy. In the mid-60's, Nixon was the first major American leader to anticipate Japan's emergence as an economic power; and he was the first President to come to terms with the end of America's economic supremacy. In a noteworthy July 1971 speech in Kansas City -- later the basis of his book "1999," published six years ago -- he predicted that the bipolar rivalry of the cold war would eventually be replaced by a pentagonal rivalry, rooted in economics, among the United States, Western Europe, China, Japan and the Soviet Union. And he did his part to bring these trends to fruition, laying the basis in 1971-72 for a new international economic order based on negotiated currency values and managed trade. Nixon -- under attack in his own party -- later abandoned both his policies of detente and managed trade, but they represented a high-water mark of American diplomacy and self-understanding.
But Nixon had one major foreign policy weakness, which Mr. Aitken doesn't recognize: a naive faith that American military intervention could solve international problems. On military matters, he was not a "granite realist," as Mr. Aitken describes him, but an adventurist. Mr. Aitken doesn't mention Nixon's plan to win the Korean War by bombing China or his support in 1954 of American intervention in Vietnam on the side of the French. Mr. Aitken relates without comment that, in 1961, Nixon advised John F. Kennedy to invade Cuba, and that during the mid-60's, he goaded Lyndon B. Johnson to escalate the Vietnam War. And even though Nixon campaigned for the Presidency on a promise to secure peace, he came to believe that he could achieve a quick, favorable settlement in Vietnam through military force. All these positions were wrong, but the last was disastrous and led to the destruction of his Presidency.
Nixon's illusion about the military persisted to the Vietnam War's end. While his national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, believed that the January 1973 Paris agreement ending the war merely allowed the United States a safe withdrawal before the South Vietnamese Government collapsed, Nixon believed that through his continuing threat to re-enter the war, he could maintain the South Vietnamese Government in power indefinitely. Mr. Aitken endorses this view, writing, "Peace in perpetuity had been given a chance." Nixon would later argue that Watergate alone permitted Saigon to fall -- a position his biographer shares.
Mr. Aitken is probably at his least persuasive when explaining Nixon's political past. He acknowledges that Nixon's dark side -- his brooding resentment, his eagerness to destroy and discredit his opponents -- shaped his conduct and led ultimately to Watergate, but he believes it only asserted itself very late in Nixon's political life. He rejects the view of Nixon's critics -- and there are many still, despite his rehabilitation -- that from 1946 on, Nixon played a nefarious role in American domestic politics.
In telling the story of Nixon's life, Mr. Aitken argues that his dark side, represented by his argumentative, resentful father, Frank, only emerged as the result of the death of his saintly mother, Hannah, in September 1967. "As long as Hannah was alive, the dark side of Nixon was rarely in the ascendant," Mr. Aitken writes. "She was the sheet anchor of his morality and the visionary spirit behind his highest political ideals." Mr. Aitken also quotes with approval former Secretary of State William Pierce Rogers's opinion that during the 60's Nixon was influenced negatively by the example of political ruthlessness that the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations set. In short, the bad Nixon was a creation of the Democrats.
But there is good ground for believing that Nixon's dark side was present from his first election. In a letter to a Whittier, Calif., banker, in which he agreed to run against the incumbent Democrat, Jerry Voorhis, in 1946, Nixon promised to "tear Voorhis to pieces." He centered his campaign on attacking Voorhis as a pawn of Communists, even though Voorhis had sponsored legislation in 1940 requiring Communists to register as agents of a foreign power. Mr. Aitken contends that Nixon was simply conducting a normal race, insisting that in 1946 -- in Southern California! -- calling someone a Communist was an innocuous charge. "The equivalent label today might be 'left winger' or 'hard leftist,' " he writes.
In fact, Nixon was one of the first politicians to run negative campaigns against opponents based on the imagined charge of their being tied to Communism, for which he has to share some of the blame for the outbreak of McCarthyism in the early 50's. Mr. Aitken makes much of Nixon's running a clean Presidential campaign against John F. Kennedy in 1960, but this was because Nixon was operating under Dwight D. Eisenhower's implicit command. It was not the death of Nixon's mother but Nixon's removal from Eisenhower's shadow that caused his dark side to re-emerge in the 1968 campaign and during his first term. It manifested itself in the pursuit of a political strategy (the "Southern strategy") that ended up polarizing the parties along racial lines and in a political style, reinforced by Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, that encouraged negative campaigning and spurious personal attacks.
Mr. Aitken's portrayal of Watergate, highly influenced by Len Colodny and Robert Gettlin's "Silent Coup," places the primary blame for the scandal on John Dean, whom he charges with authorizing the original break-in and then attempting to implicate everyone else in the cover-up. I can't judge whether Mr. Aitken is right, but I agree with him that, in retrospect, neither the Watergate break-in nor the cover-up should have merited Nixon's resignation. In Mr. Aitken's view, Nixon was finally forced to resign not because of what he did, but because of the violent antagonism between Nixon and the national press and between Nixon and Congress.
Is Nixon in the end more good than bad? If I had to judge, I'd put him closer to the guarded evaluation of Stephen Ambrose and Roger Morris than to that of Mr. Aitken. But a biography of someone so deeply controversial as Nixon does not rise or fall on whether a reviewer or reader agrees with its interpretation. Mr. Aitken's book should join the pantheon of Nixon books -- including Mr. Ambrose's three-volume biography, "Nixon"; Mr. Morris's "Richard Milhous Nixon"; William Safire's "Before the Fall"; Henry Kissinger's "White House Years" and "Years of Upheaval," and Walter Isaacson's biography "Kissinger" -- that one must read to form an evaluation of, perhaps, the most important politician of our time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard M. Nixon campaigning for President in 1968. (DIRCK HALSTEAD/GAMMA LIAISON/FROM "NIXON")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NIXON: A LIFE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HISTORY (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS; JUDIS, JOHN B; AITKEN, JONATHAN RICHARD NIXON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



199 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Life;
Stepping Into the Heels Of Their Career Moms

BYLINE: By Deborah L. Jacobs; Deborah L. Jacobs, an independent journalist based in New York, grew up with a working mother and two working grandmothers.

 BODY:
WHEN Toni C. Lichstein's mother began working in the mid-1950's, Ms. Lichstein felt ashamed. She was about 7 years old, and most children where she lived in Trenton went home from school for lunch. Ms. Lichstein, whose mother was an accountant, had to eat at school. She remembers hiding her lunch bag and thinking "there was something strange or peculiar about my family that my mother worked and other children's mothers did not."
Today Ms. Lichstein feels only pride. "When I had children, I really realized how many balls my mother had been simultaneously juggling in an era when there was not the kind of support that is available now," said Ms. Lichstein, a partner with the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. "The dry cleaners didn't deliver, there were no Cuisinart machines, there wasn't takeout food." Ms. Lichstein has all these things plus an au pair, a housekeeper and a husband who "helps tremendously." This support, she said, makes it possible for her to work long hours as a litigator. 
 Ms. Lichstein is part of a small fraternity of executive working mothers whose mothers also worked. Many of today's executive women grew up at a time when TV sitcoms portrayed at-home mothers wearing pearls as they prepared breakfast. Women who saw their mothers instead going to the office credit them with being role models.
"Part of my success is attributable to the fact I came from an environment where it was acceptable for women to work," said Cari Dominguez, Assistant Labor Secretary in the Bush Administration and now a high-level recruiter in San Francisco with the executive search firm Spencer Stuart.
The mother of Jason, 6, and Adam, 18 months, Ms. Dominguez came to this country in 1961 from Cuba. Her mother, who supported the family for six years until her husband could also leave Cuba, worked at night as a hospital emergency room technician.
Susanne Vindekilde's parents emigrated from Denmark in the 1950's and started a Danish gift shop in Racine, Wis. Ms. Vindekilde's mother, who managed the store, was the major breadwinner. Today, her daughter plays the same role: Ms. Vindekilde is an executive in securities sales at Merrill Lynch in New York, while her husband cares for the couple's children, Hannah, 7, and Emily, 4. When Hannah was three years old, she accompanied her mother to the trading room, and, when Ms. Vindekilde introduced her to a co-worker who is a father, Hannah asked: "If he's a daddy, why is he working?"
Economic realities have made two incomes a necessity for some households, but many of today's executive women began careers in the 1970's by choice. At that time, when Elizabeth Coleman's peers were debating whether to combine career and family, her mother "didn't have a lot of patience for the whole subject," Ms. Coleman recalled.
Her mother, Beatrice, who died in 1990, was actively involved in running Maidenform, the intimate apparel business founded by Ms. Coleman's grandparents. Representing the third generation of women to help run the company, Elizabeth Coleman is now Maidenform's chairwoman. To handle that job, she commutes to New York from Atlanta, where she practices law and raises her two children, Rachel, 18, and Matthew, 16.
Bettina B. Plevan, whose father died when she was 13, watched her mother take over the children's clothing store he had started on Long Island. She succeeded admirably, said Ms. Plevan, a litigation partner with the law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn in New York.
Feeling she had a normal childhood even as her mother divided her time between the store and home, Ms. Plevan said, gave her the confidence to raise her sons, Bill, 20, and Jeffrey, 17, while pursuing a career. By contrast, many colleagues have "a lot of anxiety about not being with their kids," she said.
When Debra Flanz felt guilt several years ago about time spent away from her son, Alexander, now 6, she turned to her mother for moral support. Only then did she learn that her mother, a former banker, experienced similar feelings 35 years earlier. "It took my having a child to make us talk about our feelings," said Ms. Flanz, a consultant with Kreissman Marketing in New York.
The perceptions that women have of their mothers are inevitably altered by the prism of time. Ellen Galinsky, co-president of the Families and Work Institute in New York, once asked graduate students to describe a characteristic of their mothers and then to interview their mothers about that trait. New parents remembered their mothers handling children with great ease, but the interviewees -- now grandmothers -- recalled how difficult their earlier roles had been.
What impressions will the current generation of executive mothers leave on their daughters? Ms. Lichstein, mother of Rebecca, 10, and Abigail, 8, took her older daughter to work one Mother's Day. While Ms. Lichstein discussed trial strategies with a team of junior-level lawyers, Rebecca, then 6, sat quietly on the conference-room floor and colored. "Mom, it's so different from home," she remarked as the meeting ended. "When you say things, they actually listen."
Susan Restler, whose mother was a social work professor, grew up feeling that working was an option, not a necessity. Today Ms. Restler, a managing director with J. P. Morgan in New York, said that for many women "the element of choice has diminished." What has grown, however, is the significance of women in the workplace, a message Ms. Restler has tried to communicate to her children, Lincoln, 10, and Victoria, 13.
In a recent debate with her mother over the (un)importance of algebra, Victoria argued, "In my career, I'm never going to use algebra." Ms. Restler flashed a "V" for victory sign. Victoria's comment, she said, meant her daughter "had totally accepted that having a career was a given."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (51%); MER (NYSE) (51%); 8675 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); WISCONSIN, USA (52%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); WISCONSIN, USA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WOMEN CHILDREN (91%); WORKING MOTHERS (90%); WOMEN (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); LITIGATION (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (65%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (50%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, DEBORAH L TONI C LICHSTEIN (93%); ELIZABETH COLEMAN (69%); SUSANNE VINDEKILDE (67%); BETTINA B PLEVAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994



200 of 768 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 8, 1994,

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: The Bum Who Fathered Mother's Day

BYLINE: By Diane McWhorter; Diane McWhorter is writing a book about Birmingham, Ala.

 BODY:
You have heard the arguments against the rite of condescension that you are observing today. So I won't take up time deploring the crimes against taste typified by that Mother's Day card icon, the gauzy photograph of a single rose. (Why, as Dorothy Parker wondered, is it never one perfect limousine?) Nor will I rail against the mother who profits most from the holiday, Ma Bell.
Let the historical record speak for itself. 
 The House resolution that led President Woodrow Wilson in 1914 to proclaim the second Sunday in May Mother's Day was the only memorable accomplishment in the 26-year career of the biggest boob in the history of Congress. He may also have been the most shameless racist.
J. Thomas Heflin of Alabama served in the House from 1904 to 1920 and the Senate for 10 years after that. "Cotton Tom" was a walking editorial cartoon of the yahoo nabob, a great bus of a man in white frock coat, outsize bow tie, pointy shoes and candy-striped socks.
Another nickname, Tom-Tom, presumably alluded to his gallery-packing oratory, which featured moos, cock-a-doodle-doos and the obligatory "Negro dialect."
To point out that Tom Heflin was a member of the Ku Klux Klan does him too much justice. The Alabama Klan of the 1920's was the insurgent populist wing of the Democratic Party, which launched such liberal politicians as Hugo Black. Heflin was a demagogue uncorrupted by ideology.
He was very high on womanhood, however -- provided that it was preceded by "sacred white." In the 1930's, he championed two famous oppressed females against "vile despoilers of our precious white women": the unemployed mill workers who defined an epoch in American race relations by leveling false charges of rape against nine black youths, the Scottsboro Boys. Not long after arriving in Washington, the Congressman had shot and wounded a black man for "insulting" a white woman on a streetcar.
Mother's Day was not Tom Heflin's idea, of course. The creator was Anna Jarvis of Philadelphia, who mounted a one-woman letter-writing campaign to lawmakers, editors and heads of state after her mother died in 1905. Jarvis's sentimental obsession caught Heflin's ear above the din of the era's suffragists. He voted against their cause, the 19th Amendment, a few years after his legislative favor to Jarvis.
Jarvis soon threw her own militant energies into anti-capitalist crusades against the confectioners, greeting-card interests and carnation profiteers she felt were exploiting her day. Her inheritance dissipated, she spent her last years, blind and destitute, in a sanatorium room swamped once a year with the mass-produced Mother's Day wishes she abhorred. She died, at 84, in 1948.
Heflin too was frustrated. He was defeated for re-election in 1930, after the Democratic regulars read him out of the party for rallying Alabama Klansmen against "that hireling of the Pope," the 1928 Presidential candidate Al Smith. Though that rebellion would secure his place in history, he insisted toward the end of his 82 years that Mother's Day was the high point of his career.
He may have had a point: his fond obituary in the May 7, 1951, issue of Life magazine was surrounded by tributes to his achievement. Full-page ads plied gift ideas for the coming Sunday observance -- a Playtex pillow, a Hoover vacuum cleaner ("Let your instinct lead you to it") and the archetypal Whitman's Sampler.
Life wrote of Cotton Tom (uncle of Howell Heflin, now Alabama's senior Senator), "You might say that his only lasting service was in being around long enough to be outgrown." Maybe that is all that needs to be said of Mother's Day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ALABAMA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTHER'S DAY HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); RACE & RACISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); HISTORY (71%); LIBERALISM (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (63%); SHOOTINGS (61%); FACTORY WORKERS (50%); SEX OFFENSES (50%); 

PERSON: MCWHORTER, DIANE; HEFLIN, J THOMAS (D1951); WILSON, WOODROW (1856-1924) TOM COTTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1994

 
