

401 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: In Aisle Three, Couch Potatoes Trying the MP3s

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
FOR its first store in the United States, Samsung, the Korean electronics company, took an unconventional route: it refused to sell anything. 
 Having leased 10,000 feet of astoundingly expensive real estate in Midtown Manhattan, it instead encouraged customers to commune with its products -- to check e-mail on Samsung computers, watch reality shows on Samsung flat-screen televisions and make long-distance calls on Samsung cellphones.
No shopping, only loitering. 
 Samsung called the new concept an ''experience store'' and despite fears from the shopping center's owners that it would become a costly nap room for New York City's huddled masses, the idea has caught fire. 
 Last week, A T& T said it would open 11 experience stores across the country (though theirs would sell products), joining Motorola, Apple, Sony, Maytag and Verizon, which have all opened such outlets over the past several years. 
 The era of Experience Shopping is upon us. The new stores are designed to put a piece of merchandise into customers' hands and teach them how to use it. The assumption is that after all the touching and feeling, customers will be willing to spend more.
 The concept raises some natural questions: What exactly was the old shopping experience? Why did it need to be changed? And, after shoppers ''experience'' the product will they then want to buy it?
 In a way, these stores are the modern version of carriage-trade department stores of the 1800s, like Marshall Field's, Wanamaker's and Lord & Taylor. 
 Those stores treated shopping as theater, transforming their vast sales floors into retail theme parks with demonstrations and educational seminars. One season the store could have an ''India'' theme, featuring exotic imported clothing and furniture displayed in elaborate vignettes. The next season the focus would be China, then France. 
 The popularity of these stores began to wane after 1962, the year that Kmart, Target and Wal-Mart introduced discount retailing to the United States. Since then, American mass-market consumers have largely been price obsessed, wanting cheap deals not drama or service. And most retailers have responded by relying on a simple, battle-tested formula, known inside the industry, only half-jokingly, as ''pile it high, watch it fly.''
 Dozens of chains stacked tightly packaged products on anonymous-looking metal shelves, as they focused obsessively on obtaining the cheapest price and leaving consumers to fend for themselves. 
 And the stores were remarkably successful, spawning the current era of ''big-box'' retailing. Companies like Best Buy, Home Depot, Wal-Mart and Target have achieved a level of dominance, in the American popular imagination and economy, that earlier stores could hardly fathom. 
 But they did something else, too: they took the romance, and arguably the magic, out of American retailing. These stores sold products, but they never celebrated them. 
 ''The theatrical side of retail was lost,'' said Paco Underhill, the author of ''Why We Buy'' and the founder of Envirosell, a retail consulting firm. ''The big-box store has its limits and people are looking for a different model.''
 That new model, he said, is a store in which customers, distracted from a sea of price tags and row after row of merchandise, can ''get deliciously lost.''
 ''Everyone comes into a store with a clock ticking in their head,'' he added. ''If you give them enough to forget the clock, they are thrilled. And they buy.'' 
 That is the idea behind the Samsung store, introduced in 2004, which could not be more different from a big-box retailer. There are no shelves, or dangling price tags, or cash registers. There are, instead, small homey spaces -- a living room, a den, a kitchen -- that showcase working Samsung products.
 Customers can kick back on a couch and listen to music. So alien is the concept that store employees often have to coax shoppers to stop browsing and just sit down and pick up an MP3 player or a phone.
 There is evidence that this approach is working. In extensive surveys, Samsung says, it has found that those who spend time in its experience store are far more likely to buy a Samsung product back at their local Best Buy or Circuit City. Indeed, 31 percent of those who visited the store and within a year bought a high-definition television set chose a Samsung, said Paul Kim, senior manager of North American marketing at the company. Among a similar group of consumers who bought a high-definition television, but didn't visit the store, only 11 percent chose Samsung, he said. 
 Last year, 500,000 people visited its Manhattan store, who the company estimates eventually made $55 million in Samsung purchases, Mr. Kim said.
 That may explain the growing popularity of the experience concept. At the new A T& T stores, store employees are trained to teach customers how to download video games onto a P.D.A., print photographs shot with a cellphone and even set up wireless security cameras in their homes -- a big shift from the company's traditional stores, where cellphones and P.D.A.'s sit inside locked glass counters.
 At the Maytag stores, which are located across the country, customers can bake cookies in the convection ovens, put a pair of pants through the gentle cycle of a washing machine and put their best china through a dishwasher. Customers who like what they have tried out can buy their own machines there and arrange for technicians to install them.
 Experience stores are heavily weighted toward electronics, which is perhaps not surprising. Plasma televisions and home-theater systems are expensive purchases -- so consumers want to see them up close before they buy them. Stores know they can sell more merchandise if they show customers how products work together. 
 Outside of electronics, Barnes & Noble and Starbucks have encouraged customers to hang around their stores for decades, even if they didn't call it experience retailing. 
 The big question is whether the latest version of experience stores can be applied to a wider range of products. Do shoppers, for example, want ''experience grocery stores'' that show them how to grow oranges? And do they want experience clothing stores, where employees let customers lounge around in the store's clothes for hours on end?
 Perhaps not. After all, there are plenty of drawbacks to the experience store. All those demonstrations and seminars require longer shopping trips, which customers may have little enthusiasm for. And because each store carries its own brand, but not those of competitors, they limit consumers' options, making the big-box stores more appealing. 
 Robert Spector, who has spent decades studying retailers and is the author of a book about big-box chains called ''Category Killers,'' considers experience stores a gimmick whose days are numbered. 
 ''If you have great merchandise, great displays and knowledgeable sales people you do not need the word 'experience' in your store name,'' he said. ''In retail, the experience is supposed to be a given.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Try It -- At the Samsung ''experience store'' in Manhattan, left and far left, customers can test drive the merchandise but can't take it home. (Photos by James Estrin/The New York Times)
Trendy -- Verizon is among the latest companies to open ''experience stores,'' including one in Fairfax, Va., above left. Apple, above, was one of the first. At Maytag stores, like the one in Minnetonka, Minn., you can bake cookies before deciding to buy the oven. (Photo by Jacquelyn Martin/Associated Press)
(Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Janet Hostetter/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (56%) Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: SAMSUNG GROUP (93%); MACY'S INC (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (91%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (93%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%)

PERSON: Michael Barbaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007



402 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; POSTINGS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: A Gallerist Turned Developer

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
ON the southeast corner of Hester and Baxter Streets in Lower Manhattan, a new building called 123 Baxter is marketing 21st-century amenities: refrigerators with Internet connections and an automated underground garage. 
 On the northwest corner, another condominium building, called the Grand Machinery Exchange, couldn't be more different. It has the kind of thick brick walls and cast-iron columns that hark back to the early 20th century.
Built in 1915 and used as a machinery warehouse until last year, the structure is being converted to 14 condos. 
 The developers include Max Protetch, who has been selling architectural renderings from his gallery for 30 years. Back in the 1980s, when architects like Zaha Hadid and Rem Koolhaas had yet to find clients for actual buildings, it was Mr. Protetch who helped them earn a living from their works on paper. 
 Since then, his gallery has moved from 57th Street to SoHo, and then to Chelsea, and has added a large number of contemporary artists to its roster. Still, Mr. Protetch remains a mainstay of the architecture world, and his confidants include a number of winners of the Pritzker Architecture Prize.
 So his partners in the downtown development, he said, expected him to come up with a list of superstar architects to renovate the building. Instead, he decided to go with a virtual unknown named Mark DuBois, who had designed a house in Santa Fe, N.M., for art-collecting friends of Mr. Protetch. 
 He loves Mr. DuBois's ''sensitivity to space,'' Mr. Protetch said; also, the usual suspects, like Mr. Koolhaas and Ms. Hadid, ''are too busy doing huge projects around the world.''
 Mr. Protetch said his foray into development began five years ago, when he separated from his wife. He began looking for a building near his gallery in Chelsea, thinking he might work on one floor and live on another. His business partner, Andreas Veith, a retired banker living in Germany, would have had a ''crash pad'' in the building, Mr. Protetch said.
 But when he couldn't find a building he liked in the West 20s, he began looking farther downtown, eventually falling for the arched windows of 209 Hester Street, on the border of Chinatown. He brought in Mr. DuBois, a partner in Ohlhausen DuBois Architects, who added Ed Rawlings of Rawlings Architects to the design team. 
 ''The challenge was to create new interiors that resonated with the great old architecture,'' Mr. DuBois said.
 He is doing that by leaving interior brick walls and cast-iron columns exposed, and installing new wood floors supported by 6-inch-thick yellow pine beams. Under New York City's building code, timbers that size can remain exposed, because their susceptibility to fire is extremely low. The result, Mr. DuBois said, is ''gorgeous, deeply coffered wood ceilings.'' 
 Mr. Protetch compared the renovation with a ''lot of things you see in Europe, where they retain the texture and integrity of the old space.'' By contrast, ''in many Manhattan buildings, even by well-known architects, the detailing is appalling,'' he said. 
 Unappalling detailing isn't cheap: when sales begin later this month, the apartments will cost $1.6 million to $5 million (with two duplexes, on the sixth and seventh floors, commanding the highest prices).
 Mr. Protetch said he would live in the building ''if I can afford it.'' Meanwhile, the man who has sold architectural renderings for 30 years said the project had taught him that ''a really great architect is someone who makes sure the quality gets built, not just drawn.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: BEYOND RENDERINGS -- Max Protetch has not only a gallery but a condo project, Grand Machinery Exchange. (Photo by Robert Wright for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); ART COLLECTING (67%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%) Housing; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Condominiums

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (58%) Fred A Bernstein; Max Protetch; Mark Dubois

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW MEXICO, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (67%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007



403 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD: BEYOND NUKES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Cleaning Up the 20th Century

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
FOR more than three years, the grinding, often exasperating negotiations over North Korea's nuclear weapons program have been about taking the bomb away from Kim Jong-il. As if that were not complicated enough, the agenda is now becoming more ambitious. One new goal could be loosely described as cleaning up the 20th century.
 Starting tomorrow.
 That is when diplomats from the United States, North Korea, China, Japan, South Korea and Russia will reconvene in Beijing with a docket that is still dominated by nuclear disarmament but that also now includes unresolved disputes that have bedeviled northeast Asia for decades. The process might accomplish far more than denuclearization -- a formal peace treaty ending the Korean War could be one dramatic possibility. Or it could just as easily collapse under the weight of so many moveable pieces and kill a nuclear deal, too. 
 ''This process, not unlike a video game, gets more and more difficult as you go into more and more levels,'' Christopher R. Hill, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs and chief American envoy, said earlier this month in New York.
 History can be omnipresent or repressed in northeast Asia, but nearly everyone agrees it is festering and unresolved. Historic resentments and nationalist anger are volatile and easily inflamed, as evidenced by the outrage that followed recent comments by Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, about Korean ''comfort women'' in World War II. Yet, most often, that anger is compartmentalized to protect the hum of commerce. China and Japan conduct record bilateral trade even as public attitudes in both countries can range anywhere from mutual distrust to open loathing.
 North Korea is a bit like the crazy uncle whose refusal to stay locked and quiet in the region's attic has forced everyone to the same table, with historic baggage and contemporary rivalries in tow. The North's demands for economic and energy aid nearly derailed the last round of talks, and now negotiations are being separated into working groups to tackle decades-old issues like normalizing relations between North Korea and both Japan and the United States. Discussions over a peace treaty to end the Korean War will be held in a ''separate forum'' that has yet to be named.
 ''These are the precise issues that North Korea really wants to address,'' said Bates Gill, a China specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''They want a peace treaty. They want a normal relationship with the United States.''
 Already, animosities between Japan and North Korea that have nothing to do with nuclear weapons are roiling the process. The working groups are the products of the deal struck last month in which North Korea agreed as an initial step toward denuclearization to close its main nuclear reactor by April. In return, the other nations agreed to make an initial shipment of 50,000 tons of fuel oil.
 Japan, though, refused to contribute to the aid package because of its claims of unresolved cases of Japanese abducted in the 1970s and 1980s by North Korean agents. Japan has insisted that the North address the issue before any progress can be made on normalizing relations. North Korea considers the matter resolved and a ''nonissue.''
 Earlier this month, North Korea and Japan held their first working group on normalization and neither side budged. An afternoon session was unexpectedly canceled, reportedly because the North Koreans were incensed over the Japanese position on the abductees. The North, meanwhile, wants Japanese ''atonement'' as well as reparations for Japan's colonial rule of the Korean peninsula during the first half of the 20th century.
 With no progress after two days of meetings, which were held in Hanoi, the best that Japan's chief negotiator could say about the meetings was that both sides ''reconfirmed our mutual positions.''
 No one expected a breakthrough, but the difficulties are worth noting, given the growing expectations for this diplomatic structure, known as the six-party talks. The Bush administration once regarded the talks with almost palpable distaste; now it seems to be embracing the idea that the talks could morph into the first permanent regional body dealing with security and other issues. Mr. Hill has often cast the disarmament talks as part of a larger, holistic effort to address the full range of conflicts in the region. 
 ''We are dealing not only with denuclearization, but we are dealing with some of the problems in the region, some of the problems in the region caused by the region's difficult history,'' Mr. Hill said at one news conference during last month's negotiations in Beijing. ''This type of ambitious undertaking hasn't been tried before.'' 
 ''Difficult history'' is a gracious description. On some days, World War II seems ongoing. Japanese mines are still being unearthed in northeast China, and ''patriotic education'' in China has helped create a younger, more nationalistic generation that seems to relish confrontation with Japan. Diplomatic relations between the two countries were essentially paralyzed because of visits by the former Japanese prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, to a shrine for war dead and war criminals that China and South Korea consider a potent symbol of past Japanese militarism.
 Japan's populace, meanwhile, is increasingly weary of the regional criticism and feel that rivals like China are using historical grievances to play contemporary politics and impede Japanese efforts to become a ''normal'' nation. South Korea's relations with Japan are also seriously strained. And while trade has brought South Korea closer to China, those two countries also are arguing over an ancient historic dispute about China's claims over a region considered the birthplace of the Korean people.
 This messy historical baggage only complicates the still unrealized task of disarming Mr. Kim. Hawks in Washington warn that North Korea cannot be trusted and has no intention of relinquishing its nuclear arsenal. Others caution that it is unrealistic to expect the six-party talks to become a diplomatic cure-all for the region's complicated security issues.
 Alan D. Romberg, a senior associate specializing in East Asia at the Henry L. Stimson Center in Washington, said the process was creating ''habits of consultation'' that could ease suspicions in the region. But he said he thought that the region's security issues were far too complex to be resolved under a single diplomatic roof. He noted that Taiwan, which represents one of the region's most contentious security issues, is not even part of the process. Japan and China, meanwhile, are locked in a testy dispute over territorial claims in the East China Sea as part of their rivalry over which country will eventually dominate the region.
 ''I think there are a lot of over-expectations for what this will do,'' Mr. Romberg said of the negotiations. ''We could be bogged down pretty quickly. It depends on what everybody's real goals are here.''
 Susan L. Shirk, a State Department official responsible for East Asia during the Clinton administration, said one advantage of expanding the agenda -- and separating it into different negotiations -- was that it sidelined polarizing issues like the Japanese abductees dispute away from the talks about nuclear disarmament. But she added that Japan's insistence on focusing on the issue could serve to marginalize Japan in the broader discussions, even as China, the host, stays above the fray.
 ''You have China at the center of the action and Japan at the margins,'' said Ms. Shirk, now director of the Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation at the University of California, San Diego. ''In the rivalry between China and Japan -- and I would say they are both rising powers,'' she said, ''in this arena, we see China playing it so they are coming out ahead.''
 The future, and how it will look in northeast Asia, is a matter of international concern. Japan, China and South Korea represent the world's 2nd-, 4th- and 11th-largest economies. The region is considered a model of restraint and practicality compared with the Middle East, but analysts do not rule out the possibility of future conflict. 
 For now, though, the past must be navigated.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Past's Pull -- The festering issues in northeast Asia include the Korean War, which, ended with a demilitarized zone, above, as seen from the South, instead of a peace treaty
the unresolved cases of Japanese abducted by North Korean agents (far left, Shigeru Yokota shows his daughter Megumi before and after abduction)
left, Japan's brutal occupation of Nanking, China. (Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Koichi Kamoshida/Getty Images)(pg. 1)
 Protests -- Former South Korean ''comfort women'' from World War II last week marched to Japan's embassy in Seoul. (Photo by Lee Jin-man/Associated Press)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); KOREAN WAR (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (50%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%); KIM JONG IL (73%) Jim Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; China; Japan; South Korea; Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007



404 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Nickels and Farms

 BODY:
Residents of the Hudson Valley should be paying close attention to a simmering debate in Albany over legislation that environmentalists call the ''bigger, better bottle bill'' and that water-carriers for the beverage industry call an onerous new tax.
 The environmentalists, in this case, are right. The bill is not a tax, it is an expansion of the existing law on bottle deposits for beer and soda to include non-carbonated beverages like juice and water, require the beverage industry to return all unclaimed deposits to the state to finance recyling and other envionmental needs (industry now keeps these deposits) and tweak the current law in other useful ways. 
The goal is to collect lots and lots more nickels to save lots of trees and farms and, of course, eliminate a lot of roadside litter, which was among the law's main purposes when it first passed the legislature in 1982. 
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer strongly supports the enlarged bill, which he wants to use to add $25 million to the state's Environmental Protection Fund. The fund, which increased from $125 million to $225 million in George Pataki's last two years as governor, underwrites most of the state's important environmental programs. 
 Regrettably, however, Senate majority leader Joseph Bruno and his fellow Republicans are balking, even though their party boasts a long and distinguished record of environmental stewardship and many individual Republicans have environmental records they can be justly proud of. 
 An agreement on the bill would be a good thing for all of New York State, but particularly so in the New York City watershed on both sides of the Hudson River, where steady development threatens the intergity of the city's water supply, and in the Hudson Valley, whose vitality rests on the preservation of a beautiful, bountiful landscape that is equally endangered by the spread of blacktop and housing. 
 Environmental organizations know the urgency. Scenic Hudson, an advocacy organization based in Poughkeepsie, is one among many that have rallied to urge the bill's passage. The money from all those bottle deposits would lend significant muscle to one of Scenic Hudson's singular missions -- the preservation of farmland, now disappearing in the valley at the rate of seven acres a day. Scenic Hudson realizes that saving farms is not just about preserving bucolic views, but also maintaining a healthy, sustainable economy that is built on good soil, clean air, open space and, of course, the health and timeless appeal of the river itself. 
 Such is the bill's worthiness that more than 100 groups have rallied to its side, including campus groups and local organizations for whom even small amounts of money can provide large payoffs. The Land Trust Alliance, for instance, says that the $1 million earmarked for the state's Conservation Partnership Program can be leveraged to create more millions in private donations to help the state's 90 local and regional land trusts protect farmland, working forests and wildlife habitat.
 In like manner, organizations like the Glynwood Center in Cold Spring have begun projects to resurrect the vibrancy of upstate communities by restoring the frayed links of a locally based agricultural economy where town and farm rely on one another. 
 These groups all recognize that the future of the Hudson Valley can't all be casinos and strip malls. Mr. Spitzer has declared himself their ally, and much is riding on his success. Nickel by nickel, the bigger, better bottle bill could begin to lay the foundation of a new governor's environmental legacy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); RIVERS (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Environment; Law and Legislation; Editorials; Taxation; Recycling of Waste Materials; Containers and Packaging

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007



405 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: SUNNI MILITANTS DISRUPT EFFORTS TO CALM BAGHDAD

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17 

 BODY:
In January, when President Bush announced his plans to reinforce American troops in Baghdad, Shiite militias were seen as the main worry. Some analysts predicted that bloody clashes with Shiite militants in the Sadr City district in northeastern Baghdad were all but inevitable. 
 Instead, during the early weeks of the operation, deadly bombings by Sunni Arab militants have emerged as a greater danger. In particular, the threat posed by the Sunni group Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia was underscored when American troops seized a laptop computer from a senior operative in the group who was killed in late December.
Information from captured materials indicates that the group's leadership sees ''the sectarian war for Baghdad as the necessary main focus of its operations,'' according to an intelligence report that was described by American officials.
 Reflecting concern over the bomb attacks, especially car bombings, American military officials have begun to emphasize that bringing security to the Iraqi capital will involve not only the protection of Baghdad neighborhoods, but also raids to shut down bomb factories and uncover arms caches in the largely Sunni areas on the outskirts of the city. 
 ''The Baghdad belts are increasingly seen as the key to security in Baghdad,'' Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the American officer in charge of day-to-day operations in Iraq, said in an e-mail message. ''I believe this is where you can stop the accelerants to Baghdad violence. We have already found a large number of significant caches in these areas related to car bombs and I.E.D.'s,'' or improvised explosive devices, commonly known as roadside bombs. 
 ''The Shia have gone to ground for the most part, but there are still rogue elements of Shia extremists that are still a threat and conducting operations against the coalition, but more importantly against the government of Iraq,'' he added. 
 The threat has shifted on the eve of the fourth anniversary of the start of the war in Iraq, in which American forces toppled Saddam Hussein only to face a growing insurgency and find themselves involved in an arduous effort to head off growing sectarian strife. 
 In its efforts to stabilize Iraq, American commanders have had to contend with Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, other Sunni Arab insurgent groups, a variety of Shiite militias, criminals and, they say, Iranian operatives. The greater Baghdad area seems to include all of them, making the mission there one of constant adjustment to adversaries who are revising their own tactics. 
 According to American intelligence analysts, Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia's Baghdad strategy has gone through several changes. The overwhelming majority of the group's members are believed to be Iraqi. But some senior commanders are foreigners, including Abu Ayyub al-Masri, an Egyptian who became the leader of the organization last year after the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Jordanian terrorist who founded the organization. 
 The group has been active in the Sunni-dominated Anbar Province in western Iraq. But it has also long operated in the Sunni areas on the outskirts of the capital. Mr. Hussein encouraged the settlement of Sunnis in these areas in the hope that it would protect his government, and some towns and rural communities there have emerged as havens for Sunni militants. 
 In the summer and fall of 2006, the group's leaders saw an opportunity to step up the fight in Baghdad against Shiite militias, American troops and the nascent Iraqi security forces, according to captured documents. Some of the insight into the group's strategy was obtained from the laptop computer seized when a senior Iraqi adviser to Mr. Masri was killed by troops of the American-led forces in late December at a traffic checkpoint. 
 The adviser, who among other aliases used the name Abu Hasan, was detained by the multinational troops in January 2005 but inadvertently released because his role in Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia was not well understood at the time. 
 As outlined in the captured documents and other material that was seized, the group's initial strategy was to push Shiites out of western Baghdad. As part of the sectarian battle for the capital, the strategy also called for attacking Shiites in parts of nearby provinces, specifically southern Salahuddin, western Diyala and eastern Anbar, attacks that the group's leaders also calculated would put American and Iraqi troops on the defensive. (The documents, American officials say, also reflected a continued interest in obtaining chemical weapons.)
 But Shiite militias, particularly Mahdi Army operatives, responded with their own offensive, forcing the Sunni militants to retreat. A Pentagon report to Congress noted in November that the main Shiite militia group, the Mahdi Army, had replaced Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia ''as the most dangerous accelerant of potentially self-sustaining sectarian violence in Iraq.'' American forces, instead of withdrawing from the capital as the Sunni insurgents had hoped, prepared plans to reinforce their troops there.
 According to captured memos portrayed in American intelligence reports, the group was frustrated with the Shiite militias' success, was unhappy with weapons shortages and was somewhat disorganized, according to an account by an American official who asked not to be identified because he was discussing intelligence matters. 
 As a result, the organization adjusted its tactics. It began to rely more on the Sunni enclaves on the outskirts of Baghdad. Senior leaders rotated through the areas in order to direct operations while lower-level fighters operated in the capital. 
 Car-bomb components are also made in the surrounding Sunni areas and then smuggled into Baghdad, where they are assembled in the hope of killing Shiites and escalating sectarian violence. In a reflection of the group's tactical shift, car bombings have greatly increased this year, reaching a peak in Iraq in January and February, according to Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, the top spokesman for the United States military. Of the 77 car bombings in Iraq in February, 44 were in Baghdad. 
 In addition to car bomb attacks, the group's basic tactics are to attack American and Shiite militia supply lines. When faced with American combat power, the Sunni militants tend to disperse, hoping to fight another day, American commanders say. 
 Col. J. B. Burton, the commander of the Second Brigade Combat Team for the First Infantry Division, told reporters on Friday that the Sunni militants were also taking advantage of the decision of some Shiite militias to become less active or leave Baghdad. Sunni militants ''have seen an opportunity with Shia extremists out of the area to strike with much violence,'' Colonel Burton said. ''What we have seen is when the Shia extremists departed our area of responsibility, specifically in western Baghdad, incident rates in the Shia areas dropped dramatically,'' he said. ''Incident rates in the Sunni areas increased a bit with vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices targeting Shia gathering places and Iraqi security force locations.''
 American military officials said they had long understood that Baghdad could not be secured without also controlling the surrounding suburbs, but the car bombings have made this all the more important. Among other areas, Sunni enclaves are located in the belt from Yusufiya to Salman Pak south of the capital and in towns like Baquba in Diyala Province north of the city. An American battalion was recently sent to Diyala as a result of sectarian fighting and Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia operations there. 
 Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior American commander in Iraq, alluded to the problem in his news conference last week, noting that two car-bomb factories had recently been discovered in Salman Pak, to the southeast, and in Karma, northwest of Baghdad. 
 ''They tend to be in the outskirts in these very rural areas, small villages and outlying houses and farms, and so forth,'' General Petraeus said. ''And we clearly have got to find as many of those as we can to destroy them and then, obviously, to interdict those that are still able to be built.''
 ''Although the focus, the priority, clearly is Baghdad, anyone who knows about securing Baghdad knows that you must also secure the Baghdad belts, in other words, the areas that surround Baghdad,'' he said.
 INTERIM GOVERNMENTJAN. 30, 2005Iraqis turn out in large numbers for first elections in 50 years.TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENTOCT. 15, 2005Iraqis vote to approve a constitution.DEC. 15, 2005Iraqis turn out in large numbers again to elect a Parliament.CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT(Sources by United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants; Defense Department; Terrorism Knowledge Base; National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism; Multinational Force Iraq; Defense Intelligence Agency; Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction.)(pg. 16)Map of Iraq highlighting Baghdad and surrounding area: American officers say they need to shut down Sunni bomb factories on the outskirts of Baghdad. (pg. 16) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A member of the Iraqi National Police at the scene of a car bombing in Baghdad yesterday. The explosion killed at least two people. (Photo by Mohammed Jalil/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 16)Chart/Maps: ''Four Years of War in Iraq''The violence and turmoil of the Iraqi conflict, which began on March 20, 2003, can be charted over time by a variety of statistics. While there are no universally accepted numbers for the deaths of civilians and Iraqi security forces, the United Nations said that more than 34,000 Iraqi civilians were killed in 2006, in what was thought to be the most violent year since the start of the war.DISPLACED CIVILIANSAs of Nov. 2006 the U.N. estimated that more than 1.5 million Iraqis had fled to Neighboring countries.SYRIA: 600,000LEBANON: 20,000-40,000JORDAN: 700,000IRAQ (Internally displaced): 1.6 millionIRAN: 54,000EGYPT: 100,000AMERICAN MILITARY DEATHS3,196 American troops have been killed in Iraq. Baghdad and Anbar province remain the deadliest places.MILITARY DEATHS BY PROVINCE2003: 580 DEATHS2004: 9382005: 7932006: 885Maps of Iraq highlight the deadliest places as well as other locations*Circles are scaled in proportion to the number of deaths in each province.Each map shows one year of data, beginning on March 20.(* including hospitals outside Iraq).TERRORIST BOMBINGSThere has been a steady increase in the number of terrorist bombings, defined as bombings ''calculated to create an atmosphere of fear and alarm,'' as compiled and vetted from news reports and other public sources by the RAND Corporation, which has tracked incidents of terrorism since 1968.Maps of Iraq highlighting sites of bombings since 2003.Circles are scaled in proportion to the number of bombings at each location.Each map shows one year of data, beginning on March 20.ATTACKSThe average number of attacks tracked by the American-led coalition continues to rise. Coalition forces draw the majority of attacks, while Iraqi security forces and civilians sustain the majority of casualties.Graph tracks average number of attacks since 2003.TARGET OF ATTACKS:Coalition ForcesIraqi Security ForcesCiviliansSECTARIAN VIOLENCESince 2006, the American-led coalition has tracked violence and killings that appear to be motivated by sect or ethnicity. Sectarian violence increased steadily in the months following the bombing of the Mosque of the Golden Dome in Samarra in Feb. 2006.Graph tracks sectarian threats and attacks as well as killings since February 2006.Note: a single incident can cause multiple deaths.ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION AND DEMANDDemand for electricity continues to outpace the government's ability to provide it. Dec. 2006 averaged 9.1 hours of electricity each day, though in Bagdad the average was 6.3 hours.Graph tracks the daily peak production and estimated demand since January 2003.INFLATIONInflation averaged 50 percent in Iraq last year, and Iraq's consumer price index more than doubled between June 2004 and Sept. 2006.Graph tracks the consumer price index since March 2004.POLITICAL TIMELINE OCCUPATION GOVERNMENTMARCH 20, 2003Start of the bombing that immediately preceded the U.S. invasion of Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); RELIGION (92%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%) Sunni Muslims; Shiite Muslims; Bombs and Explosives; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AL-QAEDA (83%) Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia

PERSON: RAY ODIERNO (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Michael R Gordon; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (98%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); SYRIA (79%); LEBANON (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007



406 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Why Wage Insurance Is Dividing Democrats

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DURING their long exile from political power, Democrats in Washington cultivated a reasonably unified voice on domestic policy issues: a flat no to President Bush's plan to partly privatize Social Security, a solid yes on raising the minimum wage, and a broad call to alleviate the so-called middle-class squeeze. 
 But today, less than three months after retaking majority control of Congress, Democrats are already displaying a penchant for heated disagreement -- even on crowd-pleasing proposals aimed at core Democratic goals. 
Consider the startling internal battle over ''wage insurance,'' a proposal to provide money to stabilize incomes of people who lose their jobs because of an economic jolt and take lower-paying jobs. 
 On its face, the idea addresses a host of themes near and dear to Democrats: to support working families, to soften the blows of an economy that thrives on maximum ''flexibility,'' and to deal with anxiety about disruptions caused by globalization, especially competition from China. 
 Under one proposal, by Representative Jim McDermott of Washington State, the government would pay as much as 50 percent of the difference between a person's old and new wage -- with a maximum benefit of $10,000 a year -- for as long as two years. A welder who lost a job that paid $40,000 a year and who took a new job paying $30,000 would receive $5,000 a year in supplemental pay for two years.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, is another crucial supporter. Others include two cabinet members from the Clinton administration: Robert Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, and Robert B. Reich, the former secretary of labor.
 Rough estimates indicate that the measure would cost about $3.5 billion a year, money that supporters say could come from reserves in the federal unemployment insurance trust fund.
 ''Many Americans are losing jobs that will never return to their community,'' said Mr. McDermott, who presided over a hearing on the plan on Thursday. ''We are seeing changes in our economy for a whole host of reasons, and our present system of assisting Americans is not addressing the economic challenges -- and reality -- of the 21st century.''
 Lael Brainard, an international economist at the Brookings Institution, said people whose jobs are permanently displaced end up accepting jobs that initially pay about 16 percent less than they earned before. For manufacturing workers, the average wage cut is 20 percent.
 Lori Kletzer, a professor of economics at the University of California, Santa Cruz, said: ''It is the earnings losses upon being re-employed that are main costs of trade-related jobs losses. Workers don't necessarily have anxiety about finding their next job. They have anxiety about what they will earn in their next job.'' 
 So what's not to like? An economic conservative might fret about the cost of creating another government entitlement, or about trying to guarantee people's earnings. 
 But, perhaps surprisingly, the most vocal opposition to wage insurance comes from labor unions and groups aligned with organized labor. The objection seems counterintuitive, given that unions have pushed for decades for the government to provide workers with a bigger safety net against economic disruption.
 Labor leaders, however, assert that wage insurance would effectively subsidize downward mobility by providing money to employers offering the lowest wages possible. 
 ''It's basically about getting workers to take bad jobs quickly,'' said Thea Lee, policy director at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''This seems to be giving up on the possibility of trying to get workers into better-paying jobs.''
 The more practical objection is that Congress is likely to pay for it by cutting back on traditional unemployment insurance and on Trade Adjustment Assistance, a benefit and training program for people who lose their jobs as a result of foreign competition.
 Indeed, one Republican lawmaker, Representative Jerry Weller of Illinois, proposed just that at a hearing on Thursday. 
 Maurice Emsellem, policy director of the National Employment Law Project, an advocacy group in New York, said: ''This really opens up the possibility of undermining existing programs. It's not just a possibility. It's a probability.''
 Anticipating the opposition, Mr. McDermott has coupled his wage-insurance plan with measures to let more people qualify for unemployment insurance and trade adjustment assistance. But critics allied with organized labor say those measures, while welcome, would fix just some of the gaping holes in social insurance programs. 
 Only about 40 percent of unemployed workers now qualify for unemployment insurance. One big reason is that benefits generally aren't available to self-employed people, temporary workers and part-time workers -- a growing share of the labor force. 
 Access to trade adjustment assistance is even more limited. The benefits are not available to people in service jobs, or to people in companies -- local suppliers to a dying steel company, for example --that are indirectly affected by foreign competition. Only about 75,000 people a year receive trade adjustment assistance, and the government rejects more than 40 percent of those who apply for it.
 ''My view is, if you are going to spend $3.5 billion on a new program, where would you spend it?'' said Ross Eisenbrey, vice president of the Economic Policy Institute, a research group in Washington with close ties to organized labor. ''Look at what's happened to job training programs, labor exchange programs and unemployment insurance. Fix what you've got.''
 BUT the battle is about more than the scramble for scarce money. It also reflects a schism among Democrats over globalization and trade. Democrats like Mr. Rubin and Mr. Schumer view global trade and open markets as sources of growth and dynamism but see a need to protect workers whose lives are disrupted.
 It is no coincidence that Mr. Schumer has close ties to Wall Street, that Mr. Rubin is on Wall Street and that Mr. McDermott's home state, Washington, is a gateway for trade with Asia. 
 Labor leaders, by contrast, have adamantly fought trade agreements in recent years. To many, using wage insurance to support free trade would simply add insult to injury. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); FAMILY (70%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); FACTORY WORKERS (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Unemployment; Law and Legislation; Organized Labor; Insurance

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); JIM MCDERMOTT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007



407 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2284 words

HEADLINE: The Ides of March 2003

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
TOMORROW night is the fourth anniversary of President Bush's prime-time address declaring the start of Operation Iraqi Freedom. In the broad sweep of history, four years is a nanosecond, but in America, where memories are congenitally short, it's an eternity. That's why a revisionist history of the White House's rush to war, much of it written by its initial cheerleaders, has already taken hold. In this exonerating fictionalization of the story, nearly every politician and pundit in Washington was duped by the same ''bad intelligence'' before the war, and few imagined that the administration would so botch the invasion's aftermath or that the occupation would go on so long. ''If only I had known then what I know now '' has been the persistent refrain of the war supporters who subsequently disowned the fiasco. But the embarrassing reality is that much of the damning truth about the administration's case for war and its hubristic expectations for a cakewalk were publicly available before the war, hiding in plain sight, to be seen by anyone who wanted to look. 
 By the time the ides of March arrived in March 2003, these warning signs were visible on a nearly daily basis. So were the signs that Americans were completely ill prepared for the costs ahead. Iraq was largely anticipated as a distant, mildly disruptive geopolitical video game that would be over in a flash.
Now many of the same leaders who sold the war argue that escalation should be given a chance. This time they're peddling the new doomsday scenario that any withdrawal timetable will lead to the next 9/11. The question we must ask is: Has history taught us anything in four years?
 Here is a chronology of some of the high and low points in the days leading up to the national train wreck whose anniversary we mourn this week [with occasional ''where are they now'' updates]. March 5, 2003
 ''I took the Grey Poupon out of my cupboard.'' 
 -- Representative Duke Cunningham, Republican of California, on the floor of the House denouncing French opposition to the Iraq war. 
 [In November 2005, he resigned from Congress and pleaded guilty to accepting bribes from defense contractors. In January 2007, the United States attorney who prosecuted him -- Carol Lam, a Bush appointee -- was forced to step down for ''performance-related'' issues by Alberto Gonzales's Justice Department.]March 6, 2003
 President Bush holds his last prewar news conference. The New York Observer writes that he interchanged Iraq with the attacks of 9/11 eight times, ''and eight times he was unchallenged.'' The ABC News White House correspondent, Terry Moran, says the Washington press corps was left ''looking like zombies.''March 7, 2003
 Appearing before the United Nations Security Council on the same day that the United States and three allies (Britain, Spain and Bulgaria) put forth their resolution demanding that Iraq disarm by March 17, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, reports there is ''no evidence or plausible indication of the revival of a nuclear weapons program in Iraq.'' He adds that documents ''which formed the basis for the report of recent uranium transaction between Iraq and Niger are in fact not authentic.'' None of the three broadcast networks' evening newscasts mention his findings.
 [In 2005 ElBaradei was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.]March 10, 2003
 Natalie Maines of the Dixie Chicks tells an audience in England, ''We do not want this war, this violence, and we're ashamed that the president of the United States is from Texas.'' Boycotts, death threats and anti-Dixie Chicks demonstrations follow.
 [In 2007, the Dixie Chicks won five Grammy Awards, including best song for ''Not Ready to Make Nice.'']March 12, 2003
 A senior military planner tells The Daily News ''an attack on Iraq could last as few as seven days.''
 ''Isn't it more likely that antipathy toward the United States in the Islamic world might diminish amid the demonstrations of jubilant Iraqis celebrating the end of a regime that has few equals in its ruthlessness?''
 -- John McCain, writing for the Op-Ed page of The New York Times. 
 ''The Pentagon still has not given a name to the Iraqi war. Somehow 'Operation Re-elect Bush' doesn't seem to be popular.'' 
 -- Jay Leno, ''The Tonight Show.'' March 14, 2003
 Senator John D. Rockefeller, Democrat of West Virginia, asks the F.B.I. to investigate the forged documents cited a week earlier by ElBaradei and alleging an Iraq-Niger uranium transaction: ''There is a possibility that the fabrication of these documents may be part of a larger deception campaign aimed at manipulating public opinion and foreign policy regarding Iraq.'' March 16, 2003
 On ''Meet the Press,'' Dick Cheney says that American troops will be ''greeted as liberators,'' that Saddam ''has a longstanding relationship with various terrorist groups, including the Al Qaeda organization,'' and that it is an ''overstatement'' to suggest that several hundred thousand troops will be needed in Iraq after it is liberated. Asked by Tim Russert about ElBaradei's statement that Iraq does not have a nuclear program, the vice president says, ''I think Mr. ElBaradei frankly is wrong.''
 ''There will be new recruits, new recruits probably because of the war that's about to happen. So we haven't seen the last of Al Qaeda.'' 
 -- Richard Clarke, former White House counterterrorism czar, on ABC's ''This Week.''
 [From the recently declassified ''key judgments'' of the National Intelligence Estimate of April 2006: ''The Iraq conflict has become the cause celebre for jihadists, breeding a deep resentment of U.S. involvement in the Muslim world and cultivating supporters for the global jihadist movement.'']
 ''Despite the Bush administration's claims about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, U.S. intelligence agencies have been unable to give Congress or the Pentagon specific information about the amounts of banned weapons or where they are hidden, according to administration officials and members of Congress. Senior intelligence analysts say they feel caught between the demands from White House, Pentagon and other government policy makers for intelligence that would make the administration's case 'and what they say is a lack of hard facts,' one official said.''
 -- ''U.S. Lacks Specifics on Banned Arms,'' by Walter Pincus (with additional reporting by Bob Woodward), The Washington Post, Page A17.March 17, 2003
 Representative Henry Waxman, Democrat of California, who voted for the Iraq war resolution, writes the president to ask why the administration has repeatedly used W.M.D. evidence that has turned out to be ''a hoax'' -- ''correspondence that indicates that Iraq sought to obtain nuclear weapons from an African country, Niger.'' 
 [Still waiting for ''an adequate explanation'' of the bogus Niger claim four years later, Waxman, now chairman of the chief oversight committee in the House, wrote Condoleezza Rice on March 12, 2007, seeking a response ''to multiple letters I sent you about this matter.'']
 In a prime-time address, President Bush tells Saddam to leave Iraq within 48 hours: ''Every measure has been made to avoid war, and every measure will be taken to win it.'' After the speech, NBC rushes through its analysis to join a hit show in progress, ''Fear Factor,'' where men and women walk with bare feet over broken glass to win $50,000. March 18, 2003
 Barbara Bush tells Diane Sawyer on ABC's ''Good Morning America'' that she will not watch televised coverage of the war: ''Why should we hear about body bags and deaths, and how many, what day it's going to happen, and how many this or what do you suppose? Or, I mean, it's, it's not relevant. So, why should I waste my beautiful mind on something like that?''
 [Visiting the homeless victims of another cataclysm, Hurricane Katrina, at the Houston Astrodome in 2005, Mrs. Bush said, ''And so many of the people in the arena here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this -- this is working very well for them.'']
 In one of its editorials strongly endorsing the war, The Wall Street Journal writes, ''There is plenty of evidence that Iraq has harbored Al Qaeda members.''
 [In a Feb. 12, 2007, editorial defending the White House's use of prewar intelligence, The Journal wrote, ''Any links between Al Qaeda and Iraq is a separate issue that was barely mentioned in the run-up to war.''] 
 In an article headlined ''Post-war 'Occupation' of Iraq Could Result in Chaos,'' Mark McDonald of Knight Ridder Newspapers quotes a ''senior leader of one of Iraq's closest Arab neighbors,'' who says, ''We're worried that the outcome will be civil war.'' 
 A questioner at a White House news briefing asserts that ''every other war has been accompanied by fiscal austerity of some sort, often including tax increases'' and asks, ''What's different about this war?'' Ari Fleischer responds, ''The most important thing, war or no war, is for the economy to grow,'' adding that in the president's judgment, ''the best way to help the economy to grow is to stimulate the economy by providing tax relief.'' 
 After consulting with the homeland security secretary, Tom Ridge, the N.C.A.A. announces that the men's basketball tournament will tip off this week as scheduled. The N.C.A.A. president, Myles Brand, says, ''We were not going to let a tyrant determine how we were going to lead our lives.'' March 19, 2003
 ''I'd guess that if it goes beyond three weeks, Bush will be in real trouble.'' 
 -- Andrew Bacevich, a retired Army colonel teaching at Boston University, quoted in The Washington Post. 
 [The March 2007 installment of the Congressionally mandated Pentagon assessment ''Measuring Stability and Security in Iraq'' reported that from Jan. 1 to Feb. 9, 2007, there were more than 1,000 weekly attacks, up from about 400 in spring 2004.] 
 Robert McIlvaine, whose 26-year-old son was killed at the World Trade Center 18 months earlier, is arrested at a peace demonstration at the Capitol in Washington. He tells The Washington Post: ''It's very insulting to hear President Bush say this is for Sept. 11.'' 
 ''I don't think it is reasonable to close the door on inspections after three and a half months,'' when Iraq's government is providing more cooperation than it has in more than a decade.
 -- Hans Blix, chief weapons inspector for the United Nations.
 The Washington Post-ABC News poll shows that 71 percent of Americans support going to war in Iraq, up from 59 percent before the president's March 17 speech. 
 ''When the president talks about sacrifice, I think the American people clearly understand what the president is talking about.''
 -- Ari Fleischer
 [Asked in January 2007 how Americans have sacrificed, President Bush answered: ''I think a lot of people are in this fight. I mean, they sacrifice peace of mind when they see the terrible images of violence on TV every night.'']
 Pentagon units will ''locate and survey at least 130 and as many as 1,400 possible weapons sites.''
 -- ''Disarming Saddam Hussein; Teams of Experts to Hunt Iraq Arms'' by Judith Miller, The Times, Page A1.
 President Bush declares war from the Oval Office in a national address: ''Our nation enters this conflict reluctantly, yet our purpose is sure.'' 
 Price of a share of Halliburton stock: $20.50
 [Value of that Halliburton share on March 16, 2007, adjusted for a split in 2006: $64.12.] March 20, 2003
 ''The pictures you're seeing are absolutely phenomenal. These are live pictures of the Seventh Cavalry racing across the deserts in southern Iraq. They will -- it will be days before they get to Baghdad, but you've never seen battlefield pictures like these before.''
 -- Walter Rodgers, an embedded CNN correspondent. 
 ''It seems quite odd to me that while we are commenced upon a war, we have no funding for that war in this budget.'' 
 --Hillary Clinton.
 ''Coalition forces suffered their first casualties in a helicopter crash that left 12 Britons and 4 Americans dead.'' 
 -- The Associated Press. 
 Though the March 23 Oscar ceremony will dispense with the red carpet in deference to the war, an E! channel executive announces there will be no cutback on pre-Oscar programming, but ''the tone will be much more somber.''March 21, 2003
 ''I don't mean to be glib about this, or make it sound trite, but it really is a symphony that has to be orchestrated by a conductor.'' 
 -- Retired Maj. Gen. Donald Shepperd, CNN military analyst, speaking to Wolf Blitzer of the bombardment of Baghdad during Shock and Awe. 
 [''Many parts of Iraq are stable. But of course what we see on television is the one bombing a day that discourages everyone.'' 
 -- Laura Bush, ''Larry King Live,'' Feb. 26, 2007.]
 ''The president may occasionally turn on the TV, but that's not how he gets his news or his information. He is the president, he's made his decisions and the American people are watching him.''
 -- Ari Fleischer.
 [The former press secretary received immunity from prosecution in the Valerie Wilson leak case and testified in the perjury trial of Scooter Libby in 2007.]
 ''Peter, I may be going out on a limb, but I'm not sure that the first stage of this Shock and Awe campaign is really going to frighten the Iraqi people. In fact, it may have just the opposite effect. If they feel that they've survived the most that the United States can throw at them and they're still standing, and they're still able to go about their lives, well, then they might be rather emboldened. They might feel that, well, look, we can stand a lot more than this.''
 -- Richard Engel, a Baghdad correspondent speaking to Peter Jennings on ABC's ''World News Tonight.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (84%); CHRONOLOGIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); BRIBERY (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: FRANK RICH (59%); ALBERTO GONZALES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Frank Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (52%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007



408 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: China's Central Bank Raises Rate

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 17 

 BODY:
China's central bank announced Saturday that it was raising interest rates to control a surge in bank lending and investment and to prevent consumer prices from rising. But higher rates could further widen China's politically sensitive trade surpluses with the United States and Europe. 
 Statistics released in the last week indicated that the Chinese economy had rebounded from a brief period of slower growth last fall and is now charging along at a pace so brisk that it might rekindle inflation.
 The country's overall trade surplus with all other countries more than tripled in January and February, compared with the first two months of last year. Industrial production shot up 18.5 percent and investment in new buildings and other fixed assets leaped 23.4 percent in that period. Banks went on a lending spree in February, despite closing for a week for Chinese New Year.
 The People's Bank of China announced Saturday afternoon that, effective Sunday, it was raising by 0.27 percent the regulated interest rates that banks may charge for loans and may pay for deposits. The benchmark rate for one-year loans to companies with reasonably good credit will become 6.39 percent, while the one-year deposit rate will become 2.79 percent.
 Higher interest rates could widen China's trade surplus, economists said, as its exports keep rising but its demand for imports may slacken somewhat. Higher interest rates tend to brake investment spending on costly industrial equipment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (74%); STATISTICS (73%) Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (94%)

ORGANIZATION: People's Bank of China

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007



409 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Still Not Fixing the Army Corps

 BODY:
Readers will recall that the Democrats promised to upend the status quo as soon as they won majority control. But some things, it appears, are untouchable, among them the Army Corps of Engineers. Presented with another opportunity to reform the Corps -- its weaknesses exposed by the levee failures in New Orleans and other misjudgments predating Hurricane Katrina -- Democrats on the House transportation committee took a dive. 
 The committee approved a huge $40 billion water resources development bill that is loaded with pork-barrel projects dear to Congress's heart but, partly for that reason, is devoid of any serious reforms to an agency that over the years has inflated the economic payoffs of its projects while underestimating their potential damage to the environment. The measure, virtually identical to last year's Republican bill, seems assured of passage.
Hopes for reform now lie with the Senate, where John McCain and Russell Feingold are still seeking, against heavy odds, to require two major and essential changes in the way the corps does business. One would require truly independent review of the design, cost and environmental consequences of all corps projects costing more than $40 million. 
 The second reform would require that projects be ranked by an interagency committee of experts in order of importance based on priorities like flood control and environmental restoration. This reform is aimed at Congress itself, since members tend to regard projects that benefit their own districts and electoral prospects as more important than any others, and are thus incapable of anything approaching dispassionate judgment,
 If Senator Barbara Boxer, who leads the Environment and Public Works Committee, fails to persuade her colleagues to accept these provisions in committee, the two senators will try to attach them to the water resources bill on the Senate floor.
 In addition to the usual ration of pork, the bill contains several very important provisions, including vital and long-overdue financing for the Everglades restoration project, as well as money to begin the essential task of rebuilding Louisiana's vulnerable coastal wetlands. But it would be a far better bill if the Democrats, as they promised, would put the interests of responsive government ahead of their own and finally fix the Army Corps. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on March 19 stated incorrectly that the House version of the 2007 Water Resources and Development bill would cost $40 billion. The anticipated cost is $14 billion to $15 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); WETLANDS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (77%); WATER QUALITY (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LAND RECLAMATION (74%); FLOOD CONTROL (73%); HURRICANES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%) Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%) Army Corps of Engineers

PERSON: RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



410 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Training Workers for Good Jobs

 BODY:
American politicians give lip service to the idea that retraining can give laid-off workers a second, better chance in a globalizing economy. Too often, the government treats such courses like arbitrary hoops for the unemployed to jump through if they expect to receive unemployment benefits. Instead, it could be finding better ways to target skills training to the very best jobs available. 
 The labor market is full of contradictions. Manufacturers have let millions of skilled laborers go, yet they report personnel shortages. The problem is that someone laid off by a carmaker won't necessarily have the skills to work at a semiconductor factory, or even at a more advanced auto plant.
The majority of federal money for training dislocated workers goes to job-search help -- writing resumes, preparing for interviews. The Trade Adjustment Assistance program pays for serious vocational education to help some shift occupations, but last year only 36,000 people began such training. 
 One program that might be a model for a larger national effort is Per Scholas in the Bronx, which trains low-income residents to be computer-repair technicians. What makes the program so successful is consulting closely with area businesses when it puts together its curriculum, to ensure that its graduates have the skills they need to get hired. That can mean something as simple as asking employers what kind of certification they require or as immediate as letting a company train one of its instructors. 
 As Dale Russakoff reported recently in The Washington Post, since 1998 more than a thousand students have graduated from Per Scholas, and it has found jobs for close to 80 percent of them. The program operates on an annual budget of just $1.9 million, provided by the City Council and foundation grants. As Per Scholas shows, the question is not whether job training can work, but why there hasn't been a concerted national effort to make it work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CURRICULA (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (66%); CITIES (63%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%) Labor; Editorials; Vocational Training; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Unemployment

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



411 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Amazon Seeks to Fill Classical Recording Niche

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
CLASSICAL music fans, the refugees of the retail world, can be forgiven for feeling unwanted. 
 Specialty chains like Tower Records and other independent music stores have been chased into oblivion by big-box retailers, which offer classical fans little other than Andrea Bocelli's latest pop release or ''Baby Einstein's Lullaby Classics.''
According to Paco Underhill, chief executive of Envirosell, a New York-based retail consultancy, Tower's closing has been ''absolutely devastating for the classical music community. And the transition to online isn't as natural as it might be for products with a younger customer base.'' 
 So what store wants customers who can differentiate among Beethoven's symphonies (other than the Fifth)? Perhaps not surprisingly, Amazon does. The Internet's catch-all merchant last week opened a classical music discount store -- a move, analysts said, that could benefit the company handsomely, since classical fans actually buy, rather than steal, their music.
 ''Somebody's got to serve this market, and this could be a great opportunity for Amazon,'' said Russ Crupnick, an analyst with NPD Group, a research and consulting firm.
 Amazon's new classical music Blowout store complements its core classical music offering, which has been in place since 1998 and features about 100,000 titles. With 2,000 deeply discounted CDs and a small but growing number of audio tutorials, the Blowout store is meant to be an introductory service of sorts for those who wish to build classical music collections but are not willing to spend large sums on a genre they know little about.
 ''It's an enticing way to try out something you might not otherwise want to take the risk to discover,'' said Thomas May, Amazon's senior music editor.
 Mr. May said Amazon's classical music sales last year grew by more than 22 percent, making it one of the fastest-growing music genres on the site (Amazon does not break out separate revenue figures). The Blowout store will seek to feed that trend by offering most titles at 30 percent of regular prices. 
 The Blowout store's tutorials are audio profiles of various artists, with examples from different CDs, of 5 to 10 minutes. The site currently lists five profiles -- studies of Handel, Vivaldi, lute music, the Nashville Symphony and the violinist Julia Fischer -- and Mr. May said more would appear each month. 
 Amazon's initiative comes at a time when classical music sales are either advancing nicely or in a free fall, depending on whom you believe and what you consider classical music.
 According to Nielsen SoundScan, which uses industry data to track album sales, classical music sales jumped by 22.5 percent last year, after dropping by 15 percent in 2005. 
 But SoundScan last year counted albums like Josh Groban's ''Awake,'' Andrea Bocelli's ''Amore'' and Il Divo's ''Ancora'' as classical albums. Combined, these performers' crossover albums notched eight of the top 10 classical recordings last year, and 91 percent of the top 10's sales.
 Without these titles, the genre's fortunes look much less rosy. NPD Group's consumer survey data, which does not include albums like these in its classical music category, shows that classical sales dropped last year by 28 percent, and have dropped by 54 percent in five years. Mr. Crupnick, of NPD, said Amazon's new initiative ''could at least slow down the decline.'' He said that the Web site's merchandising expertise would help it market the genre more effectively than many offline stores. ''Amazon knows that you've bought Shostakovich in the past, or browsed it,'' he said. As a result, Mr. Crupnick said, the site could show customers messages about new releases or discounts or similar artists. (Mr. May, of Amazon, confirmed such an approach.) 
 ''Compared to other industries, the music industry is just starting to get the idea of how to bundle and cross-promote so customers feel like they're getting something special,'' Mr. Crupnick said.
 Amazon will also probably suggest more mainstream music -- and can do so knowing that these classical fans are much less likely than other groups to go to a file-sharing site for illegal copies.
 Amazon declined to speculate on the file-sharing proclivities of its customers, but Paul Foley, general manager of Universal Music's classical group, which is among the biggest classical producers, said: ''This is definitely a demographic that retailers want. It's just a matter of making it easy for them to shop.''
 To that end, Mr. Foley said Amazon's Blowout store is a ''very positive'' initiative. ''They've been one of our top customers for years, so we're thrilled they're getting more aggressive,'' he said.
 Mr. Foley, whose labels produce Mr. Bocelli's records, among many others, said Amazon is taking advantage of a soft spot in the retail market that may not exist for long. In the wake of the closing of Tower Records last fall, Mr. Foley said, retailers like Barnes & Noble, Borders, J&R and Virgin began ramping up their classical music inventories. Even at the expanded levels, these retailers still carry fewer classical titles than Tower did, but he said the selection is significantly better than what big-box retailers carry.
 Universal's classic group, in turn, is expanding its advertising efforts with these stores to make consumers aware that their offline shopping options did not die with Tower. Until those efforts bear fruit, Amazon is, for many, the only alternative.
 Still, the online opportunity is large, said Mr. Underhill, whose companion of 10 years, Sheryl Henze, plays flute and piccolo for orchestras and symphonies throughout the United States. Specifically, he said, Web sites could evolve with on-demand manufacturing capabilities. 
 ''It makes much more sense to store all the music digitally and manufacture it at the point of order than keeping it all in inventory,'' Mr. Underhill said. ''You could also print whatever supporting material you want, and not be limited by the liner notes of the traditional LP or CD.''
 Indeed, Amazon already offers a print-on-demand CD service like this, where music producers and labels allow Amazon to digitally store songs and albums that are not economical to store physically in bulk, and manufacture them whenever an Amazon customer orders the title. Sean Sundwall, an Amazon spokesman, said the service is fairly well known among record labels, but nearly unknown among consumers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas May, senior music editor at the online retailer Amazon.com, said its Blowout store would discount classical selections by up to 30 percent. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC STORES (91%); MUSIC (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); TRENDS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); EXECUTIVES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



412 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: All The World's A Story

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
Journalism has always been a product of networks. A reporter receives an assignment, begins calling ''sources'' -- people he or she knows or can find. More calls follow and, with luck and a deadline looming, the reporter will gain enough mastery of the topic to sit down at a keyboard and tell the world a story.
 A new experiment wants to broaden the network to include readers and their sources. Assignment Zero (zero.newassignment.net/), a collaboration between Wired magazine and NewAssignment.Net, the experimental journalism site established by Jay Rosen, a professor of journalism at New York University, intends to use not only the wisdom of the crowd, but their combined reporting efforts -- an approach that has come to be called ''crowdsourcing.'' 
The idea is to apply to journalism the same open-source model of Web-enabled collaboration that produced the operating system Linux, the Web browser Mozilla and the online encyclopedia Wikipedia. 
 ''Can large groups of widely scattered people, working together voluntarily on the net, report on something happening in their world right now, and by dividing the work wisely tell the story more completely, while hitting high standards in truth, accuracy and free expression?'' Professor Rosen asked last week on Wired.com.
 That may not seem like much of a revolution at a time when millions are staring at user-generated video on YouTube, but journalism is generally left in the hands of professionals. 
 Assignment Zero will use custom software to create a virtual newsroom that allows collaboration on a discrete, but open-ended, topic from the very start. 
 In this instance, the topic will be be crowdsourcing, so the phenomenon will be used to cover the phenomenon itself. Citizens with a variety of expertise -- the ''people formerly known as the audience,'' as Professor Rosen describes them -- will produce work to be iterated and edited by experienced journalists.
 ''This is designed as a pro-am approach to journalism. I think I saw possibilities here that others did not, and you can only do so much writing about it,'' Professor Rosen said. ''There is so much up for grabs right now, and the barriers to entry, the costs of doing something have become low enough to where it seemed it was best to just give it a try.''
 If all that sounds like a gossamer bit of Web 2.0 preciousness, consider that Gannett is in the process of remaking the newsrooms at its 90 newspapers into ''information centers,'' a place where readers are given access to all the tools of journalism including, yes, the journalists themselves. 
 At newspapers like The Asbury Park Press in New Jersey, Florida Today in Brevard County and The News-Press in Fort Meyers, Fla., citizens can dial into databases and public records, or contribute their own experiences to provide grist for reported efforts. 
 A project at The News-Press on the high cost of sewer and water lines (available in the newspaper's paid archives at www.news-press.com/apps/pbcs.dll/frontpage) included volunteer engineers going over blueprints in their spare time and an insider who disclosed critical documents. 
 ''This is a new approach to watchdog journalism. Crowdsourcing is engaging the wisdom and expertise in our communities early on in the reporting process,'' Jennifer Carroll, vice president of new media content for Gannett, said.
 Making the choice in favor of transparency, dialogue and in some instances collaboration, the country's largest newspaper company is willing to surrender traditions of competition, expertise and control. 
 Of course, there's an economic rationale, as well. Many hands make light work and cheap ones if they belong to volunteers. But Gannett is also betting that people will be more compelled to stay with a product they helped make. (Ms. Carroll said that jobs will not be cut, but redefined. We'll see about that.)
 Jeff Howe, a reporter who helped coin the term ''crowdsourcing'' and is writing a book about the subject, will draw on the reporting from AssignmentZero to write a feature article in Wired about the phenomenon. 
 Wired has also financed an editor, Lauren Sandler, a veteran journalist, producer and author, who will oversee assignments, edit copy and write a blog to keep the community that grows up around the story informed about its progress. The site has a director of participation, Amanda Michel, who used the Web to enroll citizens in the campaigns of Howard Dean and later, John Kerry and John Edwards, and a nicely named ''directory of verification.'' 
 But the largest share of the reporting is the responsibility to folks who simply raised their hands. In the next few months, deadlines will loom for the citizen journalists, copy will be edited and articles will appear at NewAssignment.net site. A few of those might even make it into Wired magazine, according to Chris Anderson, the editor.
 ''This is an experiment in doing things differently, and maybe better,'' said Mr. Anderson. ''It doesn't invalidate the way things have been done, but it allows us to bring in some nontraditional sources and approaches.''
 The Web has transformed a lot of things, including journalism, turning it into a self-cleaning and occasionally overheated oven. Those of us who perpetrate journalism know in our hearts that it is a craft, not a profession, one that requires a finite set of skills to do competently and a lot of passion to do well.
 This past season, I wrote a blog about the movie business that would flick at topics that I was either too uninformed about or too hard-pressed to nail down. Inevitably, readers would begin buzzing around in comments, a hive that sent out a swarm that eventually, through conversation, argument and annotation, yielded valuable insights and hard facts.
 ''We are not creating a robot that is some kind of journalism machine,'' said Ms. Sandler, the editor of the project. ''This is not a death knell or a new utopia.''
 ''It's like throwing a party,'' she added. You program the iPod, mix the punch and dim the lights and then at 8 o'clock people show up. And then who knows what is going to happen?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); CROWDSOURCING (89%); INTERNET BROWSERS (73%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (73%); WEB 2 (73%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (73%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (66%) News and News Media; Computers and the Internet; Software

ORGANIZATION: Wired (Magazine); NewAssignment.Net

PERSON: Jay (Prof) Rosen; David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



413 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: In New Hampshire, Towns Put Climate on the Agenda

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BARTLETT, N.H., March 18 

 BODY:
As they do every March at the town meeting here, residents debated and voted Thursday on items most local: whether to outfit the town fire truck with a new hose, buy a police cruiser and put a new drainpipe in the town garage. 
 But here and in schools and town halls throughout New Hampshire, between discussions about school boards and budgets, residents are also considering a state referendum on a global issue: climate change. 
 Of the 234 incorporated cities and towns in New Hampshire, 180 are voting on whether to support a resolution asking the federal government to address climate change and to develop research initiatives to create ''innovative energy technologies.'' The measure also calls for state residents to approve local solutions for combating climate change and for town selectmen to consider forming energy committees. 
 ''This is an important issue to people in New Hampshire; it's an environmentally friendly state,'' said Kurt Ehrenberg, a spokesman from the Sierra Club's New Hampshire office. ''One of the driving factors here is the lack of federal leadership on this issue, and it's forced people to find a solution on the local level.'' 
 While the resolution is nonbinding, organizers hope to use it to force presidential candidates to address climate change during the New Hampshire presidential primary. 
 ''We're trying to bring to the attention of presidential candidates that we are concerned about this in little purple New Hampshire,'' said Don Martin, 61, a real estate agent in Bristol who helped collect signatures to put the initiative on the agenda in his town, where it passed by a wide margin. ''New Hampshire is fairly middle-of-the-road to conservative, and if we're concerned about this, then maybe you guys should pay attention to it.'' 
 As of Sunday, 134 towns had passed the initiative; some had yet to hold their meetings. 
 The New Hampshire Carbon Coalition, a bipartisan citizens group led by a former Republican state senator and the former chairman of the state Democratic Party, spearheaded the initiative to have climate change considered at town meetings. The last time voters in New Hampshire focused on a global issue at such meetings was in 1983, when more than 100 towns asked that the federal government do something about acid rain, which was polluting the state's waterways. 
 A handful of towns often take up national issues at their meetings, said Steve Norton, executive director of the New Hampshire Center for Public Policy Studies, an independent state policy group, but ''this is definitely a little more rare.''
 ''It might be somewhat normal for a town to take on a national initiative,'' Mr. Norton said, ''but not half the towns in the state.'' 
 Here in Bartlett, a town of about 2,200 people in the White Mountains, the measure passed almost unanimously at the Thursday meeting. Bartlett's interest is both economical and environmental: best known for its ski areas, the town suffered from a lack of snow last year and in the first half of this winter. 
 ''We have a vested interest in climate change here. We like to get snow,'' said Doug Garland, a town selectman who owns a snowshoeing and cross-country skiing area.
 David P. Brown, a professor of climatology and geography at the University of New Hampshire, said that the state's average winter temperatures had risen over the past 30 years and that snowfall had decreased. ''Every reputable climate model projects a continued warming for New England,'' Professor Brown said, ''and I expect that trend to be mirrored in New Hampshire.'' 
 While the resolution has been supported widely, not all voters have approved of it. Gene Chandler, a selectman in Bartlett, said he did not think national issues should be brought before town meetings. 
 Tom Naegeli, 74, of Mont Vernon, voted against the measure in his town meeting. It passed overwhelmingly. ''I just don't think it should be in the town meeting at all,'' Mr. Naegeli said. ''I don't see any evidence of global warming.'' 
 Barry Rabe, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan who tracks local climate change initiatives, said that Colorado and Washington had passed renewable energy standards by ballot initiative and that Texas had held hearings on the issue. 
 ''To me New Hampshire is breaking a little different ground, using the town meeting approach,'' Professor Rabe said, ''which isn't a widely available operation.'' 
 Mr. Ehrenberg, of the Sierra Club, said he and others hoped the votes would send a message that change could come from the bottom up. 
 ''Those bumper stickers you see,'' he said, '' 'Think globally, act locally' -- this is really the embodiment of that.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doug Garland, a selectman in Bartlett, N.H., who owns a snowshoeing and cross-country skiing area, supports a resolution on climate change being considered at town meetings across the state. ''We like to get snow,'' Mr. Garland said. (Photo by Tim Shellmer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); WINTER SPORTS (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (60%); ACID RAIN (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Weather; Global Warming; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008; Primaries; Weather

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%)

PERSON: Katie Zezima

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



414 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Atlantic City Aiming Higher As Casinos Slip

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, March 14 

 BODY:
Making money used to be so easy in this doleful seaside resort, at least if you were in the casino business: Efficiently shuttle a steady parade of day-tripping grandparents clutching rolls of quarters through midmarket gambling halls, and success was all but assured. 
 But now casino operators and politicians here are worried about a fall in revenue in the first two months of the year and are braced for what analysts predict could be Atlantic City's first annual drop since gambling was legalized in the state in 1977.
One culprit can be found 77 miles away at the Philadelphia Park Casino, a low-frills slot parlor that opened in December amid the suburban chain restaurants of Bensalem, Pa. There, on a sunny Sunday afternoon, sat Ron Thomas, 72, who would agree to talk only if it did not interfere with his simultaneous play of a pair of $5 Double Diamond slot machines.
 ''The wife and I, we went to Atlantic City around once a month for years,'' said Mr. Thomas, a retiree who lives in Churchville, Pa. ''But this place, we're 10 minutes away.'' 
 Why would he ever return to Atlantic City, Mr. Thomas asked, when it would require a 90-minute car ride ''to do exactly what we can do here?'' 
 No wonder, then, that Atlantic City is once again plunged deep in what seems a perennial discussion of how to reinvent itself. 
 Faced with competition from three new casinos in eastern Pennsylvania and slot machines recently added to Yonkers Raceway in the New York suburbs, casino operators here are wagering large sums that they can transform this low-rent gambling factory on the Jersey Shore into a world-class entertainment destination. They envision a future in which Atlantic City moves upmarket to become a kind of Las Vegas East, where fine food, big-name performers and other amenities -- and not just the thrill of pulling a slot machine handle or throwing dice -- lure a younger, more free-spending tourist from among the roughly 50 million people who live a tank of gas away.
 ''This is a town that had been on cruise control for 25 years,'' said Larry Mullin, president and chief operating officer of the Borgata, the city's newest, largest and most successful casino, which spent $200 million last year adding restaurants tied to the celebrity chefs Wolfgang Puck and Bobby Flay and a nightclub as glittery as it is pricey. ''The biggest challenge now facing Atlantic City is itself.'' 
 Money is one way Atlantic City is fighting back, sex another. 
 The city is in the midst of its biggest building boom since the 1980s. Casino operators have invested more than $4 billion in Atlantic City over the past five years, and plans are on the drawing board for at least two more megacasinos, each costing $1 billion-plus. 
 The city recently dropped its building height restriction as a further draw to casino companies seeking to bring a touch of Vegas bravado to a burgh of 40,000 perhaps as well known for its political corruption and violent crime as for its Boardwalk and ocean views. 
 These days, cocktail waitresses working the flashier casinos show more skin and are younger and more buxom than they used to be, and a few years ago the city adopted a new slogan: ''Always Turned On.'' The Borgata, the first billion-dollar casino in town and one of four to report a jump in revenue so far this year, sells a ''Babes of Borgata'' pinup calendar featuring female employees covered by little more than feathers and strategically placed hands.
 ''This is an adult entertainment town,'' said Mayor Robert W. Levy. ''That's what our casinos have to capitalize on to keep the industry healthy.''
 But the mayor and others began seriously worrying when January turned out to be a poor month at the casinos, and February was worse still. Slot revenue was down 8 percent -- and overall gambling revenue 4 percent -- for the first two months of 2007 compared with those months last year. Michael Pollock, publisher of The Gaming Industry Observer, a trade journal based here, predicted that 2007 would ''almost undoubtedly be the first time Atlantic City sees a year-to-year decline in revenues at its casinos.'' 
 A dip in receipts hurts not just the casino industry, but also the public agencies that rely on its tax dollars. Last year Atlantic City's 11 casinos contributed $417 million -- 8 percent of the $5.2 billion gamblers collectively lost -- to a state pool used to finance programs to help the state's senior citizens and disabled residents. The casinos paid an additional $65 million, or 1.25 percent of revenues, into a redevelopment fund intended to combat blight throughout the state, though a portion of that money has been reinvested in casino expansions and renovations.
 Atlantic City long ago lost its East Coast casino monopoly as Indian tribes opened gambling outlets in eastern Connecticut and nearby states like Delaware and West Virginia legalized slot machines. Yet gambling revenue in Atlantic City has risen reliably year after year, as it has in Las Vegas and in virtually all the 30-plus states where some form of casino gambling is legal. 
 But the competition seems to be catching up to Atlantic City, which is steeling itself for what many see as the greatest threat of all: the increasing likelihood of a Las Vegas-style resort in the Catskills, just 90 miles north of Manhattan. More and more, regulars in Atlantic City, 130 miles south of Manhattan, are being offered free meals and generous cash rewards to keep them coming back.
 This year's dip in casino revenue comes at a time when many here thought Atlantic City was on an upswing. The Boardwalk is looking spiffier than it has in years, and the city -- using casino dollars set aside for capital improvements -- has induced a long list of name-brand retailers, from Banana Republic to Polo Ralph Lauren, to a downtown business district that has been struggling for decades. 
 Yet so palpable are fears over the long-term viability of the casino industry that roughly one-fifth of the money originally intended for economic development across the city and state has in recent years been diverted back to casino-oriented projects. 
 ''It's critical that we give people a reason other than slot machines to come visit our casinos and spend time with us,'' said Jay Snowden, 30, general manager at the Showboat casino. ''For too long people in the industry thought of Atlantic City as nothing but a bus market for blue-haired nickel-slot players.''
 Opened in 2003, the Borgata is in many ways the model for the newest new Atlantic City. Unlike its neighbor casinos, the Borgata does not bus in daily visitors. Even so, gamblers collectively lost $122 million there in the first two months of 2007, nearly twice the average, $65 million, of the city's other 10 casinos. 
 ''The Borgata has certainly opened everyone's eyes to the potential for a new market for Atlantic City,'' said Ken Condon, general manager of Bally's, where gamblers lost just under $100 million in January and February, second to the Borgata. 
 Yet more inspiring than the Borgata's casino revenue is the money other parts of the resort generate. It was in the 1990s that Las Vegas operators started to veer from the long-held notion that every moment a visitor spent somewhere other than the casino floor translated into money lost. As a result, the big players in Las Vegas have long gotten more revenue from shops, high-end restaurants, shows and spas than from casino floors; last year, 59 percent of the income for casinos on the Las Vegas strip was nongambling.
 Mr. Mullin, the Borgata chief executive, said his property collected 35 percent of its revenue from sources other than gambling. That is far behind Vegas, but way ahead of the comparable figure across Atlantic City, which Mr. Pollock of The Gaming Industry Observer put at 10 percent. 
 Jeffrey S. Vasser, executive director of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority, said that is largely because the average visitor spends 24 hours here rather than the three or four days he might spend in Las Vegas.
 ''We still have a long way to go before we get where I know we can be,'' Mr. Vasser said. ''But where in the old Atlantic City the casino operators would never let people out of the building, at least now they understand that it might be a good idea to let them play a round of golf, because that way they might even be inclined to stay here for a few days.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Borgata, Atlantic City's newest and most successful casino, is in many ways the model of what casino operators see as a newly upscale entertainment destination. (Photographs by Sylwia Kapuscinski for The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart: ''Atlantic City's Smaller Take''For the first time, more than half of Atlantic City's 11 casinos posted lower revenues for the first two months of the year, compared with the same period last year.CASINO: ShowboatJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: $68.4 million2007: $63.1 millionCHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: -7.7 %CASINO: Trump PlazaJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 44.12007: 41.6CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: -5.6CASINO: TropicanaJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 69.72007: 66.5CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: -4.5CASINO: AC HiltonJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 50.62007: 48.3CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: -4.4CASINO: Bally's ACJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 103.72007: 99.6CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: -3.9CASINO: Trump MarinaJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 38.92007: 37.8CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: -3.0CASINO: Trump Taj MahalJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 81.92007: 80.3CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: -1.9CASINO: ResortsJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 43.22007: 44.8CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: +3.7CASINO: BorgataJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 116.22007: 122.3CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: +5.3CASINO: CaesarsJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 83.72007: 88.2CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: +5.4CASINO: Harrah's MarinaJANUARY/FEBRUARY REVENUE2006: 75.92007: 80.2CHANGE FROM '06 TO '07: +5.6(Source by New Jersey Casino Control Commission)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); CASINOS (92%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); RESORTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); SUBURBS (74%); CELEBRITIES (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Travel and Vacations; Gambling; Casinos; Slot Machines; Yonkers Raceway; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: BOBBY FLAY (53%); WOLFGANG PUCK (53%) Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Atlantic City (NJ); Las Vegas (Nev); Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



415 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Opposition Official Beaten as Zimbabwe Crackdown Grows

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, March 18 

 BODY:
Zimbabwe's crackdown on the nation's political opposition expanded on Saturday and Sunday to block foreign travel by leading government critics, and one official of the main opposition party was severely beaten while en route to Harare's airport for a flight to Brussels. 
 Nelson Chamisa, the spokesman for the largest faction of the party, the Movement for Democratic Change, was stopped and beaten with iron bars by four assailants as he tried to drive to the airport late on Saturday, a party official, William Bango, told news agencies in Harare, Zimbabwe's capital. Mr. Chamisa was headed to Brussels for a meeting with European Union officials.
Mr. Chamisa was reported to have suffered a fractured skull and a crushed eye socket. He was among scores of opposition activists whom riot police arrested and beat on March 11 as the activists sought to stage an antigovernment prayer meeting south of Harare. 
 Those who attacked Mr. Chamisa on Saturday were not identified, but his faction of the Movement for Democratic Change said Zimbabwe's espionage service, the Central Intelligence Organization, was behind the attack. 
 Separately, Zimbabwe's police arrested the leader of a smaller faction of the opposition party, Arthur Mutambara, as he sought to leave Harare to fly to South Africa. Mr. Mutambara was charged with inciting public violence. 
 Two other antigovernment activists who were seriously injured in the March 11 beatings, Grace Kwinje and Sekai Holland, were stopped as they sought to fly to South Africa to seek medical treatment.
 Zimbabwe's political stability has deteriorated in recent weeks in lockstep with its economy, now plagued by ever-steeper inflation and worsening shortages of basic commodities. The annual inflation rate is now more than 1,700 percent, and the black-market value of Zimbabwe's beleaguered dollar plunged 57 percent last week alone, to 17,500 for one American dollar. 
 Rising public dismay over the economic collapse has emboldened Zimbabwe's usually fractious political opposition, which has united in a ''Save Zimbabwe Campaign'' aimed at toppling President Robert G. Mugabe. Both factions of the Movement for Democratic Change, which split last year into two bitterly divided camps, have thrown their weight behind the campaign.
 Mr. Mugabe's response was to ban most political gatherings and to respond with force to anyone who tried to defy that ban. The March 11 attack on antigovernment activists sent at least 50 protesters to hospitals, including the leader of the main faction of the Movement for Democratic Change, Morgan Tsvangirai.
 A government-controlled newspaper, The Herald, quoted Mr. Mugabe on Saturday as threatening to expel Western diplomats who supported his opponents and to send the police to ''bash'' any activists who fomented violence.
 On Sunday, Mr. Tsvangirai told the BBC that ''things are bad, but I think this crisis has reached a tipping point, and we could be seeing the beginning of the end of this dictatorship.''
 Aides to Mr. Tsvangirai have said that he suffered a fractured skull and broken arm in the March 11 beatings, although that has not been confirmed. Photographs of his swollen face brought widespread condemnation of Mr. Mugabe's government.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson Chamisa was stopped and beaten with iron bars as he tried to drive to the airport late on Saturday, an opposition party official said. (Photo by National Democratic Institute, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); RIOTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); ARRESTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEAD INJURIES (69%); ESPIONAGE (67%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (52%) Freedom and Human Rights; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Demonstrations and Riots; Travel Restrictions

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (59%) European Union

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (59%) Michael Wines; Nelson Chamisa; Arthur Mutambara; Robert G (Pres) Mugabe

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (55%) ZIMBABWE (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); BELGIUM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%) Zimbabwe; South Africa; Zimbabwe

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



416 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; IWO JIMA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Renewed Interest in Japanese Who Died in Epic Battle

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: IWO JIMA, Japan, March 14 

 BODY:
A breeze carried the scent of salt off sun-speckled waves, and a pod of whales spouted playfully near shore, but it was a prayer of mourning that Yoshitaka Shindo directed toward the sand and surf that stretched before him.
 This was Invasion Beach, where 62 years ago 61,000 United States marines poured onto this remote volcanic island in the Pacific Ocean in one of the bloodiest and final campaigns of World War II. Mr. Shindo's grandfather, Lt. Gen. Tadamichi Kuribayashi, commanded the badly outnumbered Japanese defenders, most of whom fought to the death. 
The blasted concrete bunkers and splintered, rusting machine guns that still litter the island testify to the ferocity of the Battle of Iwo Jima, re-created in two recent movies by the director Clint Eastwood. Now it is a Japanese air base that is usually off-limits to civilians, though once a year a joint American-Japanese ceremony is held to mark the battle. Mr. Shindo said he came to pay respects to his grandfather.
 ''I can feel he's still here,'' said Mr. Shindo, 49, a member of Japan's Parliament, one of about 200 people -- mostly veterans, family members and officials from both nations -- who visited the island. ''It's heart-wrenching that he had to fight, and that his bones are still missing even now.''
 Of the 21,925 Japanese who died in action on or near Iwo Jima, the remains of only 8,595 have been recovered and brought back to Japan proper, according to the Association of Iwo Jima, a Japanese veterans group. Most of the rest remain sealed in their collapsed tunnels and bunkers, turning the island into a vast tomb.
 By contrast, the United States, which returned Iwo Jima to Japan in 1968, was able to find all but 493 of about 7,000 Americans killed there, according to the Marine Corps. Most of the American missing were from the Navy, suggesting they were either downed pilots or seaman on ships hit by Japanese fire, not fighters lost on the island.
 For decades, a defeated Japan put its dead out of mind, dedicating itself to rebirth through economic development. Only a fervent few, mostly veterans and bereaved families, kept their memories alive, visiting the island to pray and search for remains.
 Japan's amnesia underscores the nation's broader failure to come to terms with the war, something for which it is frequently criticized, especially by Asian neighbors. But Japan is not alone in struggling with how to remember a war that it lost, and those who died in it. During the Vietnam era in the United States, many soldiers came home to indifference and ridicule, and there was an emotional debate over the erection of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington.
 In Japan, the only significant memorials to the Battle of Iwo Jima, which took place in February and March 1945, are on Iwo Jima itself, a fish-shaped island about a third the size of Manhattan that is a two-hour flight south of Tokyo. Some are atop Mt. Suribachi, the dormant volcano at the island's southern end that was the site of the flag-raising famously depicted in the Joe Rosenthal photograph taken at the time.
 During the memorial ceremony, veterans and families from both sides gathered at a stone monument close to Invasion Beach. With the sun beating down, they watched as Mr. Shindo, the commander's grandson, washed the monument with water and then bowed deeply in prayer, a traditional Shinto ritual.
 ''Anyone who had that dedication should be honored,'' said Thurman Fogarty, 81, a former marine who was among 15 American veterans of the battle at the ceremony. ''The Japanese were tough people, tough fighters.''
 Of the 1,023 Japanese survivors, only about 20 are alive today, and only one was healthy enough to attend the ceremony, said the veterans association. Over all, the American visitors outnumbered the Japanese by about two to one.
 Association members say that is because Americans often know more about the battle, which is barely mentioned in Japanese textbooks. It was not until the release last year of the second of Mr. Eastwood's movies, ''Letters from Iwo Jima,'' which showed the battle from the Japanese side, that there was a surge of interest in Japan. The veterans association said it was suddenly flooded with e-mail messages from young Japanese.
 ''They wanted to know more about how their grandfathers had died,'' said Yoshiaki Echigo, an association official whose own father was killed in the battle. ''They said their grandmothers had taken what they knew to the grave.''
 Mr. Shindo said his mother told him only that he should be proud of his grandfather, who had done ''a hard job for his country.'' Most of what he knew came from books, and about 80 letters from his grandfather on Iwo Jima that the family keeps.
 ''When I watched the movie, I felt I had finally met my grandfather,'' said Mr. Shindo, who admitted he had been skeptical at first that an American movie could portray the Japanese fairly. ''That movie changed my view of Hollywood.''
 In the movie, Mr. Shindo's grandfather, played by the Japanese actor Ken Watanabe, is buried in an unmarked grave by a loyal enlisted man. Mr. Shindo said he believed that his grandfather's remains were still on the island, but that it was possible they had already been found. Only 78 sets of Japanese remains have been identified.
 The veterans group still searches for remains. But with time, the collapsed bunkers and tunnels are harder to locate, said Tadanori Anshou, an association official who heads the searches.
 He said he usually looked for telltale signs, like depressions in the earth or small mounds. Another clue is rusting strands of wire, used to detonate dynamite by Americans destroying Japanese fortifications, often with the Japanese still in them. The most recent search turned up a cave with the remains of 84 people.
 Mr. Anshou believes that many of the remains are sealed beneath the island's 9,000-foot concrete runway, which the Americans hastily built as a base for fighters to escort B-29 strikes on Japan. But an even bigger obstacle, said relatives of the dead, is lack of interest, which would press the government to finance more extensive searches.
 ''Maybe the movie will change priorities here,'' said Yasunori Nishi, whose father died on the island. ''It's very painful that so many dead are still sleeping on this island.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yoshitaka Shindo, grandson of the Japanese commander on Iwo Jima, during the March 14 commemoration of the battle. Below, the famous image of six servicemen raising an American flag over the island in 1945. (Photo by Martin Fackler for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Joe Rosenthal/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (92%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); BEACHES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); VETERANS (89%); ARMED FORCES (76%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%) World War II (1939-45); Monuments and Memorials; World War II (1939-45)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (58%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (53%) Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%) Iwo Jima

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



417 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; THE EMPIRE ZONE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Odd World as G.O.P. Seeks More Spending

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
These are strange days in the capital. When the Republican-led State Senate called last week for spending more in next year's budget than did the Democratic governor, Eliot Spitzer, or the Democratic-led State Assembly, newspapers around the state marveled at what one called a political ''Freaky Friday'' and another termed ''Bizarro world,'' a nod to the alternate, topsy-turvy universe of Superman and ''Seinfeld'' fame. 
 That through-the-looking glass quality was only heightened when Michael R. Long, the chairman of the state's Conservative Party, wrote a letter to Governor Spitzer in support of his budget, saying, ''as difficult as your budget is, what the Republican-controlled Senate is proposing forces me to re-evaluate your proposals.''
Senate Republicans even held two long floor debates to get Senate Democrats to come out on record against more spending for health care and education. All this has allowed Governor Spitzer -- who proposed a $120.6 billion budget that would raise spending well above the rate of inflation, but who is calling for some politically difficult health care cuts -- to portray himself as the fiscal conservative. 
 So what does John Faso, the former Republican assemblyman who ran against Mr. Spitzer last year as the fiscally conservative candidate, make of it all?
 ''I think that I laid out last year the place where the Republican Party needs to be,'' he said. ''We need reform, first of all. We need fiscal responsibility and lower taxes. I don't think any of the budget proposals out there meet those criteria.''
 ''But I got just under 30 percent of the vote,'' said Mr. Faso, who has returned to the practice of law. ''I'm not sure New Yorkers at this point really are focused on the fiscal condition of the state in the long term.'' 
 ''No one has yet repealed the business cycle,'' he said. ''None of the decision makers seem to be considering what happens if the money spigot slows down. That's my concern with the level of projected spending with all the parties' budgets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (66%); INFLATION (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Michael Cooper; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Michael R Long; John J Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007



418 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2007

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2911 words

HEADLINE: Does Free Speech Exist in School?

BYLINE: AMANDA CHRISTY BROWN and BRIDGET ANDERSON


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students explore their First Amendment rights by learning about the Supreme Court case Frederick v. Morse, researching other important court decisions and creating a brochure for their peers illustrating their rights. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students explore their First Amendment rights by learning about the Supreme Court case Frederick v. Morse, researching other important court decisions and creating a brochure for their peers illustrating their rights.
Author(s):
Amanda Christy Brown, The New York Times Learning Network
Bridget Anderson, Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: one hour.
Objectives:
1. Consider the First Amendment to the United States Constitution as it relates to their own lives.
2. Read and discuss the article "Free-Speech Case Divides Bush and the Religious Right."
3. Assess and expand students' knowledge of the First Amendment by taking an online quiz and then doing further research for the purpose of creating a brochure for their peers.
4. Create and distribute a brochure outlining First Amendment rights for students.
Resources and Materials:
- paper.
- pens/pencils.
- copies of "Test Your Knowledge of Student Press Law" (www.splc.org/falawtest) (one per student).
- computers (at least one per group of three or four students).
- access to the Internet or school library.
- copies of the article "Free-Speech Case Divides Bush and Religious Right," at (one per student).
Activities and Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: When students are settled, ask: "Who knows what the Bill of Rights is? What are some of the rights it protects? Who knows the First Amendment? What is it?" Elicit responses and discuss briefly.
Together, read the text of the First Amendment (it might have been written on the board and "unveiled" at this point or copied and handed out to students):
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances."
Then ask students: "What are some examples of rights you have under this amendment? Do you think this amendment applies to minors the same way it applies to adults? Do you think it applies to students in school? Why or why not?" Discuss responses.
At this point you may wish to let them know that the article they are about to read contains drug references.
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "Free-Speech Case Divides Bush and Religious Right" (www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070319monday.html), focusing on the following questions:
a. What happened to cause the lawsuit and ensuing free-speech battle between Joseph Frederick and Deborah Morse?
b. Why might a principal, like Ms. Morse, be upset about the banner's slogan "Bong Hits 4 Jesus"?
c. According to Mr. Frederick, why did he create this banner?
d. Why have some conservative religious groups taken Mr. Frederick's side in this matter?
e. Why has the Bush administration taken the side of Ms. Morse and the school board?
f. Who is Kenneth Starr, and why is it notable that he is representing the school board and the principal, and doing so without charging a fee for his services?
g. What does the law professor Robert Destro mean when he says about the Bush administration's position that "To the people who put them in office, they are making an incoherent statement"?
h. According to the article, how has the Supreme Court ruled before in cases in which school officials act against student dissidents?
i. Why do you think the court's doctrine on student rights issues is not clear-cut?
j. What message does their mixed response to such cases suggest?
k. In your opinion, what should the principal have done?
l. In the article, the law professor Douglas Laycock is reported as stating in an interview that "religiously observant students often find the atmosphere in public school to be unwelcoming." Do you think the atmosphere in our school is inclusive, or do students feel marginalized because of their religious beliefs?
m. What other issues of free speech might come up in school settings?
3. Following the discussion, direct students to test their knowledge of the First Amendment by taking the online quiz available at the Student Press Law Center's Web site (www.splc.org/falawtest), either individually or in groups of three or four. If computers are not available, the quiz may be printed out and paper copies distributed to students. (An answer guide is also provided by the law center, and may be printed out for teacher use.)
Explain to students that, using what they have learned, they are now going to do some more research and design a brochure for an audience of their peers that explains and illustrates student rights under the First Amendment. Their brochure should highlight at least three hypothetical situations, like those presented on the quiz, and outline student rights in each situation. The brochure should be eye-catching and include graphics or other appealing visuals.
Divide students into groups of three or four and have them research the First Amendment as it relates to three areas of student life: oral speech, written speech and clothing in their type of school (public, private/independent or parochial). They should find or create at least one scenario for each area and research case law about it. For each situation they offer in their brochure, they should aim to answer the following questions in order to be able to outline student rights fully:
- What is the situation?
- What are the provisions and limitations of the First Amendment in this situation?
- What are the provisions of the state constitution in this situation?
- What legal precedents have been set in similar situations?
- Are the actions of this student protected under the law? Why or why not?
The following Web sites will help them to answer these questions; provide the annotated list below in a handout. If Internet access is not available, students can work in the library, using news databases and print resources.
Web sites - The text of the First Amendment is available from the Cornell University Law School (www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/constitution.billofrights.html#amendmenti). This Web site gives a good general overview of the First Amendment (www.law.cornell.edu/wex/index.php/First_amendment).
- The First Amendment Center provides comprehensive coverage of First Amendment issues ).
- First Amendment Schools offers resources and responses to frequently asked questions about cases specifically dealing with the rights of students and teachers: www.firstamendmentschools.org/freedoms/speechfaqs.aspx.
- The Bill of Rights Institute () gives an overview of landmark Supreme Court cases, including Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School District and Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier, among others.
- The Student Press Law Center () offers information and free legal advice to student journalists and their advisers. The site includes a number of articles on the Frederick case, downloadable text of the 9th United States Circuit Court of Appeals decision, as well as the brief student law center wrote regarding the case.
- The Exploring Constitutional Law Web site on "Free Speech Rights for Students" provides information about key First Amendment cases involving students, including the Frederick case ().
- The American Civil Liberties Union Web site () offers information about the organization and its mission, including past and present activities.
- Links to state constitutions are provided by FindLaw: www.findlaw.com/11stategov/indexconst.html.
When research is complete, students should plan their brochure's design and decide which situations each group member will be responsible for writing up and illustrating at home.
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Each group member takes his or her assigned situation and writes it up at home, following the design guidelines the group agreed upon. Brochures will be assembled in the next class and can then be photocopied and handed out at a table during lunch or before or after school.
Further Questions for Discussion:
- In what ways do the rights of public school students differ from those of private school students? Why?
- How do the other rights afforded by the Bill of Rights affect students?
Evaluation and Assessment:
Students will be evaluated on their participation in class discussions and group work, and the quality and accuracy of their final brochure.
Vocabulary:
fissure, allies, squelch, appeal, advocacy, fray, harried, ensuing, prevailed, dissent, vulgar, doctrine, solicitor, array, litigate, brief, dissident, strange-bedfellows, ideological, galvanized, precedents, immunity, implication, suppress, countervailing.
Extension Activities:
1. Host a classroom First Amendment Forum. Invite students, teachers and administrators as you hand out brochures and engage participants in a discussion of their rights.
2. Interview a principal, other administrator or school publication adviser about any First Amendment issues he or she has encountered. What was the situation? How did he or she handle it?
3. How does the Patriot Act curtail individual freedoms? Look at criticism of the act on the Web site of the American Civil Liberties Union (www.aclu.org). In your opinion, does national security warrant limiting First Amendment rights? When? What precedents do such limitations set?
4. Research the Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School District and Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier cases -- landmark Supreme Court decisions affecting high school students -- and their influence on American secondary schools and students, especially school publications.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
American History - Investigate the historical reasons behind the creation of the First Amendment and its position of primacy in the Bill of Rights. Do those reasons still exist? What First Amendment issues have cropped up that the Founding Fathers never could have imagined?
Global Studies - Research freedom of speech issues in another country. What rights do people have? What laws exist to protect them? For example, you might investigate the decision made to prevent religious students from wearing visible religious symbols to school in France or current issues regarding the freedom of the press in Russia.
Fine Arts - How has the First Amendment affected the rights of visual and performing artists, writers and lyricists throughout history? Is it legal for lyrics to be censored for radio broadcast or for sale in certain stores? Is it legal for a museum to shut down a show of an artist's work because of its content?
Teaching with The Times - Follow the progress of this case and analysis of whatever verdict is eventually handed down in The Times. Clip articles and post them on a classroom bulletin board.
To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Other Information on the Web:
The National School Boards Association provides a summary of the decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Frederick v. Morse (), as well as a link to the court's full opinion.
Information about the Frederick case can be found on the Juneau School District Web site: www.jsd.k12.ak.us/newdistrict/.
The Liberty Legal Institute (www.libertylegal.org/) is one of the organizations involved in the Frederick case.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades Six to Eight.
Civics Standard 3 - Understands the sources, purposes and functions of law, and the importance of the rule of law for the protection of individual rights and the common good. Benchmarks: Understands the difference between the "rule of law" and the "rule of men"; Understands how and why the rule of law can be used to restrict the actions of private citizens and government officials.
Civics Standard 9 - Understands the importance of Americans' sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Identifies fundamental values and principles that are expressed in basic documents, significant political speeches and writings, and individual and group actions that embody fundamental values and principles; understands how certain values are fundamental to American public life.
Civics Standard 11 - Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society. Benchmarks: Knows a variety of forms of diversity in American society; knows major conflicts in American society that have arisen from diversity; knows how an American's identity stems from belief in and allegiance to shared political values and principles, and how this identity differs from that of most other nations, which often base their identity on things like ethnicity, race, religion, class, language, gender or national origin; knows basic values and principles that Americans share; knows why it is important to the individual and society that Americans understand and act on their shared political values and principles.
Civics Standard 18 - Understands the role and importance of law in the American constitutional system and issues regarding the judicial protection of individual rights. Benchmarks: Understands the importance of the rule of law in establishing limits on both those who govern and the governed, protecting individual rights, and promoting the common good; knows historical and contemporary examples of the rule of law.
Civics Standard 25 - Understands issues regarding personal, political and economic rights. Benchmarks: Knows what constitutes personal rights and the major documentary sources of personal rights; understands the importance to individuals and society of personal rights like freedom of conscience and religion, freedom of expression and association, freedom of movement and residence, and privacy.
Language Arts Standard 1 - Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; writes expository compositions; writes persuasive compositions.
Language Arts Standard 4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics; determines the appropriateness of an information source for a research topic.
Grades nine to 12.
Civics Standard 3 - Understands the sources, purposes and functions of law, and the importance of the rule of law for the protection of individual rights and the common good. Benchmark: Knows alternative ideas about the purposes and functions of law.
Civics Standard 9 - Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands how the institutions of government reflect fundamental values and principles; understands the interdependence among certain values and principles; understands the significance of fundamental values and principles for the individual and society.
Civics Standard 11 - Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society. Benchmarks: Knows how the racial, religious, socioeconomic, regional, ethnic and linguistic diversity of American society has influenced American politics through time; knows different viewpoints regarding the role and value of diversity in American life; knows examples of conflicts stemming from diversity, and understands how some conflicts have been managed and why some of them have not yet been successfully resolved; knows why constitutional values and principles must be adhered to when managing conflicts over diversity; knows beliefs that are common to American political culture; knows how shared ideas and values of American political culture are reflected in various sources and documents.
Civics Standard 18 - Understands the role and importance of law in the American constitutional system and issues regarding the judicial protection of individual rights. Benchmarks: Understands how the rule of law makes possible a system of ordered liberty that protects the basic rights of citizens; knows historical and contemporary practices that illustrate the central place of the rule of law; knows historical and contemporary illustrations of the idea of equal protection of the laws for all persons.
Civics Standard 26 - Understands issues regarding the proper scope and limits of rights and the relationships among personal, political and economic rights. Benchmarks: Understands different positions on a contemporary conflict between rights like one person's right to free speech versus another person's right to be heard; knows examples of situations in which personal, political or economic rights are in conflict; understands the argument that personal, political and economic rights reinforce one another.
Language Arts Standard 1 - Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; writes expository compositions; writes persuasive compositions that evaluate, interpret and speculate about problems and solutions and causes and effects.
Language Arts Standard 4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics; determines the appropriateness of an information source for a research topic.

        
Free-Speech Case Divides Bush and Religious Right

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (92%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); RELIGION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ETHICS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); PETITIONS (73%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (73%); JOURNALISM (72%) Civics; Education; Individual Rights; Journalism; Journalistic Ethics; Language Arts; Social Studies; U.S. Constitution

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



419 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Nowadays, Angola Is Oil's Topic A

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA, March 16 

 BODY:
Angola, which shared the stage with the world's most powerful oil-producing nations at its first OPEC meeting here Thursday, is an unlikely candidate to be the darling of the global oil industry. 
 A corrupt, underdeveloped and war-scarred country, Angola is one of the poorest lands on earth. But ask any energy executive these days and another picture emerges: a place of immense riches, solicitous of foreign investors and among the three fastest-growing oil exporters in the world today.
In the capital, Luanda, hotel rooms cost more than $200 a night and are booked two months in advance by the oil companies; three times a week, nonstop charter flights known as the Houston Express ferry workers to and from Texas; offshore, dozens of oil fields have been discovered and given names like Cola and Canela. 
 Exxon Mobil, Chevron, BP and others have poured billions into Angola in the last decade to unlock petroleum resources in the country's deep waters, where the vast majority of the oil is, and the payoffs are finally coming in. 
 In recent years, Angola has become the fastest-growing source of oil exports to the United States and, along with Nigeria and smaller West African countries, it is about to become an important component of American energy security. 
 Within three years, producing nations in western Africa will account for one of every three new barrels pumped worldwide. By 2015, the United States is projected to import a quarter of its oil from Africa, up from 15 percent today.
 Angola's promise stems from a series of big discoveries some 100 miles offshore, which have increased the country's oil production tenfold since the mid-1970s, to 1.5 million barrels a day in 2006. Next year, Angola is expected to reach two million barrels daily and by 2011, 2.6 million barrels, the equivalent of Kuwait's output. 
 But Angola is finding itself at the crossroads of today's energy geopolitics. It has become the latest stage in a global rivalry playing out among Western, Russian and Chinese oil companies. This year, it joined the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which has been paring global supplies to keep prices from falling below $50 a barrel.
 China has identified this country as a promising source in its rush for energy resources, providing billions in loans and development aid in return for favorable treatment of its oil interests. Last year, Angola overtook Saudi Arabia as the largest oil supplier to the Chinese. It is currently the sixth-biggest exporter to the United States.
 The Angolan government seems emboldened by its new status as a member of the small club of big oil producers. The decision to join OPEC baffled energy analysts because it implied that Angola might have to slow its growth just when it seemed to be hitting the jackpot in oil.
 But Angolan officials showed no signs of restraint when they appeared in Vienna for their first OPEC meeting. ''We've been wanting this for a long time,'' said the oil minister, Desiderio da Costa, a long-faced technocrat who has been involved in the country's energy sector since 1976. Manuel Vicente, the chairman of Sonangol, the national oil company, added, ''It means we're a real exporter now.'' Western executives say OPEC membership is unlikely to affect their investments. 
 ''Angola is in a growth phase,'' said Christophe de Margerie, chief executive of Total, the French oil giant. ''They need to develop. They need the money. I don't see why they would mutilate themselves.''
 Energy companies have big stakes in the notion that Angola, which is nearly twice the area of Texas, may be one of the last large untapped regions of the world. Eni of Italy bid a startling $902 million last year to secure the rights to drill offshore, then the highest fee ever paid by an oil company.
 ''At that time it seemed crazy,'' Eni's chief executive, Paolo Scaroni, said. ''In reality, we feel it was not crazy at all. There are big deposits in Angola. It's an area of Africa where production can only grow, and we want to be part of that growth.''
 After the Eni bid, Sinopec, a Chinese state-owned company, and Sonangol jointly offered $2.2 billion for two other offshore blocks. 
 While oil companies talk at length about how welcoming the government is to foreign investors, they are much more circumspect when it comes to the country's lack of transparency or its history of corruption.
 Angola suffered through a devastating civil war for 27 years and became a focus of cold war proxy battles between Western and Soviet allies in Africa. When the fighting ended in 2002, an estimated 500,000 people had died and much of the country was in ruins. The ruling Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola had imposed a brand of African-tinged Marxism, something the government has since abandoned. 
 These days, Angola still has a terrible record on corruption and ranks on the lowest rungs of nearly all development indicators. Elections have been postponed several times and are currently scheduled in 2009.
 The nation's contradictions are glaring. Angola earned more than $30 billion last year from its petroleum exports. But according to a recent World Bank report, 70 percent of the population lives on the equivalent of less than $2 a day, the majority lack access to basic health care, and about one in four children die before their fifth birthday. 
 President Jose Eduardo dos Santos has shown little interest in improving transparency of oil accounts. Last month, his government arrested a prominent British transparency campaigner, Sarah Wykes of Global Witness, who was visiting the northern oil region of Cabinda. Ms. Wykes, who has lobbied producers to publish their oil accounts, was jailed for three days and accused of being a spy. [She returned to Britain on Monday after the authorities allowed her to leave the country, Global Witness said.]
 There is no guarantee that African producers will end up being more stable suppliers than many in the Middle East have been. Consider Nigeria, where a quarter of the production, or about 600,000 barrels a day, has been cut for nearly two years as a result of violence in the oil-producing Niger Delta. The violence stems from years of neglect, mismanagement and corruption by both the national and regional authorities in Nigeria and the oil companies.
 For consumers, relying on such volatile parts of the world where democratic institutions are weak and oversight of oil revenue is limited, could spell trouble. In the next decade, 70 percent of world oil production will be concentrated in 15 countries, compared with 55 percent today, according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
 And Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultant in New York, said, ''Energy sources are going to come from increasingly unstable regions in the world.'' 
 The Gulf of Guinea has some of the world's greatest untapped oil reserves. From 1995 to 2005, western Africa accounted for 5 percent of all wells drilled worldwide but 21 percent of discoveries. Half of them were made in Angolan territory. Africa's new importance has recently led to the creation of a separate Africa Command at the Pentagon.
 ''It's a good story for consumers,'' George L. Kirkland, a senior executive at Chevron, said. ''The greater the diversity, the less your risk -- not just political, but also technical and commercial.''
 Angola has about 11.4 billion barrels of proven reserves, according to Wood Mackenzie, an energy consulting firm in Edinburgh -- about the same as Brazil or Algeria, two medium-size producers, though much less than reserves in the Persian Gulf region.
 But it is more than enough for big projects. Total has made 15 oil discoveries in Angola's Block 17, about 100 miles offshore, since it began drilling there in the 1990s. 
 Since 2001, it has been producing 250,000 barrels a day from a Block 17 field called Girassol and plans to ramp up its output to 500,000 barrels a day by the summer with a $4 billion development named Dalia. Farther out, in the deeper waters of Block 32, Total has announced eight discoveries since 2003, including three so far this year -- Manjericao, Caril and Salsa. 
 Exxon Mobil and its partners produce more than 550,000 barrels a day, after having completed two $7 billion projects offshore, Kizomba A and Kizomba B in Block 15. In 2008, the company plans to bring on a third big field, Kizomba C.
 And Chevron, which expects to double its western Africa production in the next four years, is planning an ambitious liquefied natural gas partnership in Angola with Sonangol that is projected to bring gas supplies to the United States in a few years. These projects are likely to make Angola much richer in coming years. But what the government in Luanda does with its oil wealth and where the money goes have long been frustrating matters for human rights groups. In 2001, for instance, Angola chastised BP for disclosing a $111 million fee without the government's approval. 
 After that, officials clashed with the International Monetary Fund over opening the books to scrutiny. From 1997 to 2002, $4.2 billion was unaccounted for, according to an estimate by Human Rights Watch. 
 Since the war ended around five years ago, the Angolan government has made some progress in improving transparency. It publishes more details about its oil revenue and production and posts some of the data on the finance ministry Web site, though it is often out of date. 
 But Angola still fails to disclose how it spends money, including its budget. It ranks 142nd among 163 countries in Transparency International's annual corruption perception index.
 ''Angola has no interest in transparency and there is no source of external leverage on the government right now,'' said Monica Enfield, an analyst at PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. ''With all their oil revenue, they don't need the I.M.F. or the World Bank. They can play the Chinese off the Americans.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Total of France aims to double its output at the Girassol field off Angola. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
The Angolan oil minister, Desiderio da Costa, expressed satisfaction over his country's new OPEC membership at the meeting in Vienna. (Photo by Heinz-Peter Bader/Reuters)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Angola's Oil Production Has Doubled . . .''Graph tracks Angola's oil production since 2001.. . . But It Is Dwarfed By Other Members of OPECSaudi ArabiaAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 9.2PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 262.3IranAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 4.0PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 136.3United Arab EmiratesAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 2.6PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 97.8KuwaitAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 2.5PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 101.5VenezuelaAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 2.5PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 80.0NigeriaAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 2.4PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 36.2IraqAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 2.0PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 115.0AlgeriaAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 1.8PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 12.3LibyaAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 1.7PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 41.5AngolaAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 1.5PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 11.4IndonesiaAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 1.0PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 4.3QatarAVG. DAILY OIL PRODUCTION, 2006, MILLIONS OF BARRELS -- 0.9PROVEN OIL RESERVES, BILLIONS OF BARRELS* -- 15.2*Oil and Gas Journal estimates, as of Jan. 1, 2007(Source by Energy Information Administration
 oil companies)Map of Angola shows surrounding area: A poor country in a poor region, Angola has mineral resources. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ETHICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Production; Ethics

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%); ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) ANGOLA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); NIGERIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%) Angola

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



420 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: The Ex-Elite Flier Club

BYLINE: By BARBARA S. PETERSON

 BODY:
Elizabeth Davidson knew she would need to cut back on her business travel when she learned she was expecting her first child. 
 A computer technical support consultant in Greensboro, N.C., Ms. Davidson had earned gold status with US Airways' frequent flier program, a level that provided perks like frequent upgrades to first class.
''There is something magical about being able to fly around the country,'' she said, especially when one can enjoy shorter lines and a more comfortable flight than most other fliers. But the magic may be gone. Earlier this year, as she prepared to resume her work several months after her daughter was born, she learned that her travel hiatus had a come with a cost: her elite status with the airline had expired. 
 ''My first thought is the lines,'' she said, imagining life as a newly demoted flier. ''I really grew to loathe the crowds at the airport, and the elite check-in counters and security lanes are just about the only way to bypass them.'' 
 Airlines like to dole out benefits, like wider seats and access to first-class airport lounges, to their repeat customers as a way to reward loyalty and bestow exclusive status. But fliers have to renew their status every year. If they fail to keep pace, their privileges will disappear -- even if the lull is temporary. Such situations are on the rise, said Randy Petersen, who tracks loyalty programs on his Web site, webflyer.com. He estimated that tens of thousands of very frequent fliers each year must take a break from their schedules to attend to their own health or family concerns like caring for an ailing parent. 
 Although the program rules are usually clearly spelled out, travelers who have spent years cementing their loyalty to a particular company may find it galling to be told, in effect, that their past patronage is worthless. 
 ''It can certainly seem like a lack of sensitivity on the airlines' part,'' said Hal Brierley, president of Brierley & Partners, a loyalty-plan consulting firm based in Dallas. ''Losing the special treatment may make you, subconsciously at least, want to travel on that company less.''
 The airlines say they are just sticking to longstanding policy, which limits special treatment to those who earn their miles the old-fashioned way: by flying within a specified period of time. 
 Kent Landers, a spokesman for Delta Air Lines, said that if the airline granted too many exceptions to the rules it might create resentment. ''Our customers have told us that they work hard for their status and that they want to be fairly recognized,'' he said. 
 But that has not stopped some fliers from trying to appeal their expulsion from the road warrior elite. Ron Hackler of northern Florida, for example, thought he had a compelling reason for his brief respite from flying: in the last half of 2006 he was posted to Iraq on assignment for his job with a military contractor. His gold status with Delta's Sky Miles program was demoted to silver -- a change that means a lower priority for upgrades. 
 Back from Iraq, he sent Delta a request for reinstatement of his previous status, along with documentation of his work in Iraq. The airline eventually responded by restoring his status to gold -- and Mr. Hackler said he expected to reach platinum this year because of more international travel. ''It makes a big difference when you are doing these kinds of trips,'' he said. (Mr. Landers of Delta said the airline tried to work with fliers who had lost their status because of military work.) 
 A loss of V.I.P. status may seem a minor setback, but the consequences can be felt in many ways. Several fliers pointed out that shorter security lines and roomier seats in first class could provide a significant boost in productivity. 
 Mr. Brierley, who has worked on several loyalty programs for airline clients, said a ''leave of absence'' plan allowing fliers to opt out for a year might be a good idea. 
 United allows travelers to apply to regain lost premium status through a fast-track program, which costs $299 and requires that they fly 6,250 miles within 90 days of resuming membership. For those who are not sure they will make the cut, United offers one-year access for $299 to seats in its Economy Plus rows, a perk automatically extended to elite members. 
 Mr. Brierley said that what airlines really cared about was ensuring that fliers would not bolt to the competition. ''Keep in mind that the point of these annual renewal requirements is to create an 'opportunity cost' for being disloyal,'' he said. 
 For one flier, however, loyalty went further than the airline. H. Scott Matthews, an engineering professor at Carnegie Mellon University, said he lost his top status with US Airways, a level the airline calls ''chairman's preferred,'' when he took time off to care for his father, who passed away last year. Mr. Matthews said he wrote to the airline to explain why his travel had paused and noted that his father had worked for US Airways for 43 years. The airline ultimately agreed to give him gold-level perks, two notches below the top. ''I have mixed feelings about their response, but I guess it's better than nothing,'' he said. 
 In such situations, some travelers employ the negotiating skills that got them ahead in their careers. Gary Dollinger, president of an Illinois technology consultancy, said that he had been dropped from the platinum club at Northwest Airlines when he cut back temporarily on flying to open his new business. 
 He pleaded his case to an executive with the airline's WorldPerks program, and was granted a partial reprieve in the form of silver status. But he persisted and worked out an arrangement that would let him regain his perks if he proved his road warrior mettle, a challenge he took seriously: he booked himself a globe-trotting trip, and after 34,000 miles and 15 stops at airports from Amsterdam to Vancouver, he was back in full standing. 
 ''It was actually a lot of fun,'' he said. 
 But for many fliers, the outcome is not so positive. For Paul Quick, a doctor in San Francisco, the final blow came when he lost his premier status on United after the airline canceled what would have been his last two qualifying flights for the year, because of a snowstorm that shut down the carrier's Denver hub. Protests went unheeded, he said, adding: ''I am switching to another airline.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elite frequent-flier status means shorter lines at airline check-in counters and security stations. But eligibility for such programs can lapse if not renewed every year. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); CUSTOMER RETENTION STRATEGY (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%) Airlines and Airplanes; Travel and Vacations; Cellular Telephones; Productivity; Production; Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Buses; Los Angeles International Airport; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); BRIERLEY & PARTNERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: American Express Co; CFO Research Services; World Travel and Tourism Council; Federal Aviation Administration; Cessna Aircraft Co; Los Angeles World Airports

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



421 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Cue the 4:53 Silver Bullet to Happy Hour

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
YOU know the old drinker's saying that it is always 5 o'clock somewhere? Coors is turning back the clock seven minutes in an effort to turn the clock forward when it comes to reaching consumers through new media.
 For the Coors Light beer brand, the Adolph Coors Brewing Company division of Molson Coors is planning an interactive initiative, scheduled to start in mid-April, that promotes 4:53 p.m. as the new 5 o'clock.
At 4:53 p.m. local time on weekdays, the Coors Light brand symbol, an old-fashioned train called the Silver Bullet, will race across entertainment, news and sports Web sites that are frequently visited by the brand's core audience of men ages 21 to 34.
 The train's brief onscreen appearance will be followed by an invitation to ''Catch the 4:53 to Happy Hour'' and a ''Happy Hour Countdown'' clock, both in onscreen spaces devoted to advertising. Other elements of the campaign, by the Portland, Ore., office of Avenue A/Razorfish, part of aQuantive, may include maps displaying the locations of nearby bars and lounges serving Coors Light. 
 The 4:53 initiative will be preceded by new television commercials for Coors Light, scheduled to begin Monday. The spots, by Draft FCB in Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, feature the train rushing across the TV screen to deliver batches of Coors Light, described in a new theme line as ''the world's most refreshing beer.''
 Coors executives plan to describe details of the campaign today at an annual convention for distributors, being held in Las Vegas. The focus on the online elements is indicative of the growing importance of the Internet for marketers.
 ''We've learned a lot about continuing to diversify the way we deliver our message to consumers,'' said Sara Mirelez, brand director for the Coors family of brands at Coors Brewing in Golden, Colo.
 ''In the online environment, you can really target consumers in a precise way,'' Ms. Mirelez said, citing surveys showing that 71 percent of the Internet use of men 21 to 34 takes place at work and 61 percent of that ''is done at the end of the day, 3 to 6 p.m.''
 Molson Coors is joining a lengthening list of mainstream marketers that are devoting significant attention to their interactive ads. Others include Johnson & Johnson, Microsoft and Nike.
 Nielsen Monitor-Plus, a division of the Nielsen Company, reported yesterday that spending for online ads increased 35 percent last year from 2005 -- more than the percentage gains of the next four fastest-growing media categories combined.
 Data released last week by another ad-tracking service, the TNS Media Intelligence division of Taylor Nelson Sofres, showed that online ad spending last year rose 17.3 percent from 2005. (The numbers vary because the companies use different calculation methods.)
 The brewers that provide the most competition to Coors Molson -- Anheuser-Busch and the Miller Brewing Company -- are also intensifying their online efforts. Miller, for example, decided last month to change digital agencies of record, switching to Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe, from Agency.com, a unit of the Omnicom Group.
 Anheuser-Busch has gone as far as to start a broadband video Web site, bud.tv, meant as a destination for entertainment, sports and talk programming. Data released last week by comScore Media Metrix indicated that the Web site, which arrived early last month, is getting off to a somewhat slow start.
 Executives at Anheuser-Busch say they are taking a long-term perspective, and plan to step up marketing and promotions for bud.tv.
 Coors and Miller, on the other hand, are concentrating their online ads not on their own Web sites but on those with owners like espn.com, maxim.com and yahoo.com.
 ''We want a balance between hosting content in a Miller environment and syndicated content in external environments, which have large audiences the content providers have already aggregated,'' said Peter Marino, a spokesman for Miller, part of SABMiller.
 Levi Patterson, account director at Avenue A/Razorfish, the digital agency of record for Coors Brewing, offered a similar reason for the media strategy for the 4:53 campaign.
 ''We're creating content, but we're letting people stay on the site they're on and not redirecting them to our home page,'' Mr. Patterson said. ''We're not asking the consumers to come to us and leave where they already are.''
 Creating and producing the online campaign ''has been challenging,'' he added, because of the need for ''geo-targeting for the time zone you're in'' as well as trying to ''push the envelope a bit'' in terms of the train image briefly covering the editorial content of the Web sites.
 The Silver Bullet train made its first pitch for Coors Light in 2005 in a commercial from a Draft FCB predecessor, Foote Cone & Belding. It was initially intended ''as a single execution,'' said Sean McGrath, vice president and management director at Draft FCB, but the response from consumers led to a starring role for the train in campaigns.
 ''It's getting back to the roots, back to a brand promise of cold refreshment,'' Mr. McGrath said, tracing the provenance of the train to how Coors Brewing transported its beer from the Colorado mountains.
 The brewer still uses trains, ''but they don't look like that,'' he added, laughing, in a reference to the old-school look of the locomotive and train cars.
 The train shows up at the end of the commercials that are to begin running next week, which present men of superlative achievement offering humorous endorsements of Coors Light as ''the world's most refreshing beer.''
 The endorsers include Michael Johnson, identified as ''the world's fastest man,'' and Takeru Kobayashi, identified as ''the world's fastest eater.''
 The commercials are in a funny way a counterpoint to a successful radio campaign for Bud Light beer, sold by Anheuser-Busch, which offers mock salutes to ''real men of genius'' who are actually imaginary magnates of dubious achievement.
 The Coors Light campaign's fanciful superlative of ''world's most refreshing beer'' is what is known in the advertising industry as puffery, a subjective claim that cannot be substantiated because of its broadness.
 Such claims are becoming more popular in a world of ad clutter in which marketers strive to stand out. For example, a brand advertised in Valassis coupon inserts in Sunday's newspapers, sold by GPC Pet Products, is called World's Best Cat Litter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Coors Light train will race across Web sites visited by the brand's core audience of men 21 to 34. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); BEER & ALE (89%); BREWERIES (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (77%); MEN (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (72%); ADVERTISING COPY TESTING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Alcoholic Beverages; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Beer; Men; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (94%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (61%); AVENUE A/RAZORFISH INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Coors Brewing Co; Nielsen Monitor-Plus

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (94%); IPG (NYSE) (82%); JNJ (NYSE) (61%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (94%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (94%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (61%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



422 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Merger Activity Buoys Markets

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street joined overseas markets in riding a wave of merger news yesterday to bounce back from a losing week. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 115 points.
 Buyouts, particularly the possibility of an enormous deal that would unite the Dutch bank ABN Amro Holding with the British bank Barclays, propelled stocks higher as investors theorized that companies must be upbeat about the economy if they were willing to cut new deals.
The advance opened an important week for economic data. The first reading, a report yesterday from the Chicago Federal Reserve, said regional manufacturing slowed in January. Today, the Federal Reserve will begin a two-day meeting on interest rates. While few expect the Fed to adjust short-term rates, investors will be looking for any change in posture that could hint at where rates are headed in the coming months. 
 Given the volatility that has returned to the marketplace, market watchers are not ruling out more big swings in stocks.
 ''I think the markets are very sentiment-driven,'' said Subodh Kumar, global investment strategist at Subodh Kumar & Associates in Toronto, who added: ''I don't put a lot of faith in the idea that this rally is sustainable.''
 The Dow rose 115.76, to 12,226.17, its biggest one-day gain since March 6, when the index climbed more than 150 points.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 15.11, to 1,402.06, and the Nasdaq composite index advanced 21.75, to 2,394.41. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 8.28, to 787.05. 
 Stocks also rose sharply overseas yesterday, even after China's central banks raised interest rates to try to cool the economy. The Nikkei stock average in Japan rose 1.59 percent, and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong advanced 1.65 percent. The FTSE 100 in Britain closed up 0.96 percent, the DAX index in Germany added 1.39 percent and the CAC-40 in France finished up 1.43 percent.
 Investors seemed to look past a report from the Chicago Fed that said Midwestern manufacturing activity fell 2.3 percent in January, from December, to the weakest reading since October 2005. 
 They also appeared to shrug off a report from the National Association of Home Builders that its index of sales activity for new single-family housing slipped to 36, from a reading of 39 in February, which was revised down from 40. It was the first decline in the index in six months. The Commerce Department reports today on housing starts and building permits, and the National Association of Realtors reports Friday on home sales, inventories and prices.
 Merger news helped lift stocks, especially word that ABN Amro, the largest bank in the Netherlands, is a possible buyout target of Barclays, of London. ABN rose $5.12, to $41.36, while Barclay's fell 15 cents, to $53.35.
 In other news, ServiceMaster, a provider of housecleaning, landscaping and pest control services, agreed to be acquired by an investment group for about $4.48 billion. ServiceMaster rose $1.68, to $15.15.
 Also, the hospital operator Community Health Systems agreed to acquire Triad Hospitals for $54 a share, or about $5.1 billion. Community Health fell $2.02, to $34.78, while Triad rose $2.59, to $51.95.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 5/32, to 10015/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 4.56 percent, from 4.54 percent. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction for three- and six-month Treasury bills:(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.753	97.517	High Rate	 4.930	 4.910	Investment Rate	 5.075	 5.119	Low Rate	 4.900	 4.880	Median Rate	 4.915	 4.900	Total applied for	$57,485,842	$53,613,495	Accepted	$27,756,468	$22,440,452	Noncompetitive	$1,879,510	$1,752,061	Both issues are dated March 22, 2007. The three-month bills mature on June 21, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 20, 2007.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' tracks Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction since Dec. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MERGERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); BUILDING PERMITS (60%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (60%); TALKS & MEETINGS (55%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (57%)

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); MIDWEST USA (57%) UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



423 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
MORE MOBILE TECHNOLOGY -- Work harder, and watch your spending on the road. That's the message from financial executives at midsize companies surveyed by American Express and CFO Research Services. More than 40 percent of 300 executives said they expected to increase spending on mobile technology ''designed to increase business travelers' productivity'' like cellphones, personal digital assistants and laptops, said American Express, which offers business travel management services, including corporate credit cards. 
Nearly three-quarters said they planned to improve procedures for making sure employees complied with travel spending policies to ''spot and halt maverick spending by employees,'' said Tom Tierney, the senior vice president for sales at the American Express U.S. Commercial Card division.BIG TICKET ITEMS -- Global spending on business travel is expected to be about $743 billion this year, according to the World Travel and Tourism Council. Of that, $178.9 billion is expected to be spent in the United States. Spending on tourism and other leisure travel worldwide is expected to be about $3 trillion; about $870.6 billion of that will be spent in the United States. The data is from the travel council's annual Travel and Tourism Economic Research report, sponsored by Accenture and prepared by Oxford Economics.A YEAR FOR VERY LIGHT JETS -- The first few deliveries of so-called very light jets were made late last year, but momentum is building for the new aircraft, with 350 of them expected to be delivered this year, according to the 2007 aerospace forecast by the Federal Aviation Administration. Various manufacturers are making the new jets, which cost $1.5 million to about $2.9 million and are the least expensive private jets. After this year, the very light jet fleet will grow by 400 to 500 aircraft annually, to about 6,500 aircraft by 2020, the F.A.A. said. Very light jets are expected to be used by start-up air-taxi companies as well as by corporate and private fliers.CITATION X DEMAND -- Strong demand continues for the 10-year-old Cessna Citation X business jet, which costs about $20 million. With a top speed of Mach 0.92, or about 600 miles an hour, the eight-passenger Citation X is the fastest nonmilitary aircraft in service. The Cessna Aircraft Company, a subsidiary of Textron, says it is continuing ''to ramp up production'' of the plane. More than 260 have been sold. DOWNTOWN TO LAX, BY BUS -- A nonstop bus route between Union Station in downtown Los Angeles and Los Angeles International Airport on the other side of town carried more than 250,000 passengers in 2006, its first year of service. That was three times initial projections, says Los Angeles World Airports, the agency that operates Los Angeles International and three other airports in the region. Union Station, where major rail lines and the subway connect, is near downtown hotels and convention and meetings centers that draw a large number of business travelers. Because the buses use special lanes on the freeways, they are better able to negotiate traffic jams than taxis, and cost far less. The bus fare is $3 each way; the taxi fare is $35 to $40 each way. The bus trip averages 30 to 40 minutes. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); AIRPORTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); SALES MANAGEMENT (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TOURISM (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (73%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); AIRCRAFT MFG (70%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (70%); CIVIL AVIATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (64%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (64%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); CESSNA AIRCRAFT CO (62%); ACCENTURE PLC (58%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); ACN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (62%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



424 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Utility and Sierra Club Deal Aims to Cut Carbon Dioxide

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
A Midwest electric company and the Sierra Club announced a deal on Monday under which the environmental group will drop its complaints against a coal plant, and the utility, Kansas City Power and Light, will take steps to cut carbon dioxide output by the amount that a new plant will produce.
 The utility promised to buy hundreds of windmills and undertake a major conservation program, among other steps. 
The Sierra Club said it was the first time a utility had agreed to ''fully offset'' a new power plant, which would produce six million tons a year of carbon dioxide. Such offsets have become popular as companies, groups and individuals pledge small steps to reduce carbon emissions by planting trees or investing in windmills or other alternative energy sources to make up for their own ''carbon footprint.'' 
 Also Monday, a group of 65 large companies and investors, including DuPont, BP America, the treasurers of nine states and Calpers, the pension fund for California state employees, called on Congress to establish a carbon policy to limit climate-change risk and to clarify for businesses what requirements are likely to emerge. 
 The group was organized by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies, known as Ceres, a corporate responsibility group, and the Investor Network on Climate Risk, a network of institutional investors and financial institutions focused on the financial risks and opportunities of climate change. 
 Their statement called for ''leadership by the U.S. government to achieve sizable, sensible long-term reductions of greenhouse gas emissions,'' reaching 60 percent to 90 percent below the levels of 1990 by the year 2050. It also asked for the Securities and Exchange Commission to clarify ''what companies should disclose to investors on climate change'' in their required reports.
 The statement said that a program to cut carbon output could create ''vast economic opportunities.'' 
 Mindy S. Lubber, the president of Ceres, said, ''They're all persuaded by the science.'' But she added: ''Not only is it a scientific imperative and a moral imperative to deal with, but an economic imperative. The companies and their portfolios will be stronger if we get on with the business of putting mandatory caps on carbon.''
 In the utility agreement, the Sierra Club will withdraw its opposition to an 850-megawatt coal plant under construction in Weston, Mo., called Iatan 2, and will no longer argue that an existing plant there violates Clean Air Act rules. 
 The power company plans to save huge amounts of electricity by helping commercial landlords and homeowners replace air-conditioning and lighting with newer equipment that does the same work with less power. 
 Kansas City Power and Light, based in Kansas City, Mo., plans to ask regulators and state legislatures to let it invest in higher-efficiency equipment and earn a rate of return on the money it spends, just as it would earn a rate of return on a new power plant. In some cases customers will see bigger bills; others would see their bills go down because of lower consumption, but they would have to help pay the cost of any new equipment. The utility would subsidize the cost of new equipment.
 ''We believe there's a lot of low-hanging fruit there, energy efficiiency that can be invested in that costs less than building a baseload plant,'' said Mike Chesser, the chairman and chief executive of the utility. ''The trick is to get the business model in place,'' Mr. Chesser said. 
 He said that, as part of the agreement, the Sierra Club would help the company persuade regulators that costs and pollution would be lower if the money could be invested in conservation instead of in new construction. The effort might involve buying central air-conditioners in bulk, going into residential neighborhoods and replacing equipment house after house, he said.
 The agreement comes soon after the Natural Resources Defense Council and other environmentalists negotiated with investors buying a Texas utility, TXU, in an agreement to drop eight proposed coal-fired plants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); CARBON OFFSETS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); ETHICAL INVESTING (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%) Electric Light and Power; Carbon Dioxide; Windmills; Coal; Factories and Industrial Plants; Air Pollution

COMPANY: KANSAS CITY POWER & LIGHT CO (58%); BP AMERICA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (94%) Kansas City Power & Light Co; Sierra Club 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%)

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (91%) MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Weston (Mo)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



425 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Health&Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: In Testing For Allergies, A Single Shot May Suffice

BYLINE: By LAURIE TARKAN

 BODY:
At the age of 5, Sarah Marcus had her first skin test for allergies. She had 18 needle pricks and screamed from the first to the last. At 8, when she needed to be retested, she was terrified. 
 ''It was horrible to see your child so panicked,'' said her mother, Ann Marcus, of Watchung, N.J.
Because Sarah had severe symptoms that did not respond to allergy medicines like antihistamines and decongestants, she began immunotherapy -- regular shots to immunize her body against a host of allergens, among them cats, dust mites and birch pollen. But that was an ordeal, too.
 During a third round of testing in high school, Sarah had a severe reaction and passed out. When a fourth series was needed to wean her off the shots before college, she refused the needle pricks. At an impasse with the doctor, her mother mentioned that a friend had gotten a blood test for allergies. Her doctor agreed to give it a try. 
 ''It was one needle prick and then it was all over,'' Mrs. Marcus said.
 Some people describe the traditional rounds of test pricks as archaic or inhumane; others are unfazed by them. But few patients are aware that an alternative technique is available: testing the blood for immunoglobulin E, or IgE. 
 Allergists have typically turned to blood testing as a last resort when skin testing cannot be used. Few in the United States use blood testing routinely, experts say, though it is being used more often to help diagnose food allergies. Yet studies have found that newer blood tests are as sensitive as skin tests and less subjective. 
 The blood test is also part of a larger debate about who should be treating allergy sufferers. Blood testing would allow pediatricians and other primary care doctors to diagnose allergies and treat many patients. But allergists contend that these generalists are not qualified to assess the laboratory results.
 Dr. Dean Mitchell, an allergist in Manhattan, has virtually abandoned the skin-prick test. He was converted, he says, after taking a patient to the emergency room for a severe reaction to his skin test. Dr. Mitchell began to imagine a nearly needle-free office. 
 ''There's been a longstanding fear of skin testing, and it turns off a lot of allergy sufferers from getting help,'' said Dr. Mitchell, the author of ''Allergy and Asthma Solution'' (Marlowe, 2006), which advocates oral immunotherapy, or allergy drops, instead of shots.
 For that reason, he and other experts say, most sufferers never even see an allergist. (And many sufferers of seasonal and pet allergies know what they're allergic to, so they don't need a diagnosis.) For them, care has focused on treating symptoms with antihistamines and decongestants, not diagnosing the allergy and avoiding its triggers. 
 ''The question is, why aren't we identifying more children and adults suffering from allergic rhinitis and asthma to help them?'' Dr. Mitchell said. 
 In Europe, 60 percent of asthma patients are tested for allergies, compared with only 5 percent to 10 percent in this country. A lack of diagnosis may contribute to the worsening of symptoms in children -- the so-called allergy march. 
 It begins with eczema in infants and toddlers, and progresses to respiratory problems and asthma in preschoolers and beyond. Half of babies who have eczema in the first two years of life will develop asthma in childhood, said Dr. Thomas A. E. Platts-Mills, president of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology. 
 In skin testing, a practitioner makes rows of pricks on a patient's back or forearm so allergen-containing extracts can seep into the skin. If the antibody IgE is bound to the immune system's mast cells in the skin, the patient will get an itchy, hivelike wheal surrounded by redness. The size of the wheal and the diameter of the redness help determine if the patient is allergic. 
 A patient typically gets 15 to 20 skin pricks, but sometimes many more. Because the test comes with a small risk of a serious reaction, it should not be performed in very young children and pregnant women, among others. 
 The blood test, which is not without its own ouch factor, measures levels of circulating IgE. The lab sends the physician a report with these figures and the patient's risk of a reaction. 
 The first generation of blood tests were developed in the 1970s. Because they were not considered very sensitive, physicians were left with a lasting impression that blood testing was inferior to skin testing. 
 A more sophisticated test with improved sensitivity, called ImmunoCAP, became available in 1992. It has performed equally well in comparison studies with skin-prick testing, said Dr. Jay M. Portnoy, chief of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology at Children's Mercy Hospital in Kansas City, Mo. 
 Still, most allergists prefer skin testing. ''Skin testing is more sensitive and tells you more,'' said Dr. Dean D. Metcalfe, chief of the laboratory of allergic diseases at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. With blood tests, he went on, ''you're not really measuring an allergic reaction, but a potential for a reaction.'' 
 Skin testing produces an answer in about 20 minutes, compared with 48 hours for a blood test. The quick turnaround allows doctors to offer a diagnosis and immediate advice. 
 But skin-testing results can vary from one allergist to the next, and most allergists don't rely on a prior allergist's results when a patient switches practices.
 Some experts contend that allergists resist blood testing in part to protect their revenue. ''A barrier to allergy testing in the states has been the economics in our system,'' said Dr. Richard G. Roberts, professor of family medicine at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health. If an allergist does an in-office skin-prick test, he gets the fees for those tests. If he requests a blood test, the laboratory gets the fee. 
 But others say allergists are simply more familiar with skin testing. ''They have been trained to do skin testing, they're comfortable with it, and they get an answer in 20 minutes,'' said Dr. Portnoy. 
 Allergists say some patients previously treated by primary care physicians were taken off foods like peanuts, though they never had an allergic reaction to them. Diagnosing requires a thorough medical history and interpreting the test results within that context; generalists may lack the time to do a complete history, especially under the pressures of managed care. 
 Dr. Roberts says that if primary-care physicians used the blood test, many more patients would be treated appropriately. While most allergy patients are seen by these generalists, he says, many allergies are not adequately diagnosed. 
 ''Could we do a better job collectively?'' he asked. ''Absolutely.'' 
 Some allergists have made the switch to blood testing -- especially in the area of food allergies, where blood testing is replacing the so-called food challenge test, a two- to six-hour procedure in which patients are given increasing amounts of suspect foods like egg or milk to determine whether they will have an allergic reaction.
 Dr. Hugh Sampson, a food allergy expert at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, is seeking to add a level of precision to diagnosis. He correlates levels of specific IgE with a probability that the person is allergic to a food -- a technique, he says, that reduces the need for food challenge testing by half. 
 Dr. Mitchell, the Manhattan allergist, called that approach promising. ''A lot of academic allergists are very conservative,'' he said. ''But Hugh Sampson's work may turn the tide.'' 
 As for Sarah Marcus, starting last summer she was weaned from allergy shots so she would no longer need them when she went away to college, at the University of Pennsylvania. She has been shot-free and allergy-free since Thanksgiving.
 ''All in all,'' said her mother, ''if I could go back, if I had a 2-year-old now, I'd never put her through the skin testing.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: OUCH -- Allergy skin tests can involve dozens of needle pricks on the back or arm. (Photo by Phranie/Photo Researchers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALLERGIES (92%); IMMUNOLOGY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PEDIATRICS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); CATS (75%); FOOD ALLERGIES (73%); ASTHMA (73%); IMMUNODIAGNOSTICS (73%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (71%) Allergies; Doctors; Tests and Testing; Research

PERSON: Laurie Tarkan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



426 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Federal Agency to Inspect Freight Train Tracks

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The Federal Railroad Administration said yesterday that it was speeding up inspection of 1,300 miles of track in New York operated by CSX Transportation after several derailments upstate in recent months.
 The agency, which enforces rail safety regulations nationwide, took the step less than a week after a CSX train with several cars carrying liquid propane derailed in Oneida and burst into flames, forcing the evacuation of thousands of residents and the closing of a stretch of the New York Thruway.
The inspection was scheduled for next month, but the head of the railroad administration, Joseph H. Boardman, who is a former commissioner of the New York Department of Transportation, ordered it moved up. After tracks in New York are examined, the agency will inspect the rest of the 21,000 miles of track that CSX operates in 23 states around the country, as well as networks operated by other freight rail companies. 
 ''The Oneida incident convinced me to do this,'' Mr. Boardman said. ''I want to know if the company has put in place the best safety measures. I want to know what their safety culture is.''
 In December, the agency proposed a large increase in fines for safety violations to prompt railroads to comply more closely with regulations. A final ruling is expected soon.
 CSX could face civil penalties if it is found to have skirted safety regulations. The company, with $9.6 billion in annual sales, paid $1.9 million in penalties to the Federal Railroad Administration last year, 55 percent more than in 2005.
 Robert Sullivan, a spokesman for CSX, said his company was cooperating with government inspectors. He noted that train derailments companywide had declined 24 percent last year, and that they were down again this year.
 ''We're very focused on safety and having an improving safety record,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
 There are a multitude of fines for a multitude of violations, so fines could be heavy although the number of accidents decreased.
 Incidents involving all railroads fell 12.4 percent last year to a record low, according to railroad administration statistics.
 Still, the accidents in New York have alarmed federal regulators. In Oneida last week, 28 cars -- most of them tankers -- derailed, causing a huge explosion, and the fire was so hot that firefighters could only watch as it burned itself out over several hours. 
 Mr. Boardman said the agency was also looking into an episode in January in which CSX freight cars fell from an overpass into the front yards of homes in East Rochester. In December, two derailments occurred in Erie and Chautauqua Counties in upstate New York, one of which involved a CSX train.
 The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating.
 In deciding to step up the inspections, Mr. Boardman said he wanted to make sure local emergency service agencies were not overtaxed. In addition to federal inspections, railroads must check their tracks as often as every week.
 Several rail experts said that a number of major snowstorms in recent months could have contributed to the incidents along CSX's main route between Albany and Chicago.
 ''For as long as railroads have been around, they've had trouble dealing with snow,'' said Daniel McBride, who covers CSX and other industrial companies for H&R Block Financial Advisers.
 He said that Burlington Northern, which operates primarily in the western United States, had faced similar problems.
 The interruptions in service upstate may have a small effect on CSX's financial performance in the first quarter this year. But CSX and other railroads are more likely to be hurt by a slowdown in demand related to a cooling economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); RAIL FREIGHT (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TRAINS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); FIRES (76%) Railroads; Propane ; Accidents and Safety; Fines (Penalties); Fires and Firefighters; Railroads

COMPANY: CSX CORP (92%); CSX TRANSPORTATION INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (94%) Csx Transportation Inc; Federal Railroad Administration

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (92%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (92%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (92%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Oneida (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



427 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: An Olympic Push to Ease Border Rules

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BLAINE, Wash., March 16 

 BODY:
Worried about trade, tourism and the success of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, several states and Canadian provinces are pressing the Department of Homeland Security to ease some restrictions planned for the increasingly tight border between the United States and Canada.
 One goal is to delay the start of a measure that will require people entering the United States by land or sea to show a passport. The rule has been scheduled to take effect as early as January 2008, but the department has the latitude to delay it until June 2009. 
In addition, officials in Washington State say they are in final negotiations with the Homeland Security Department to create an ''enhanced driver's license'' that could be used instead of a passport to cross the border. State officials expect to announce soon a pilot program to give Washington residents who are United States citizens the option to apply for the new license. It would cost about $40, compared with the $97 fee for a United States passport, and it would be the size of a regular driver's license. New York and Michigan are pursuing similar programs.
 The new passport requirement is part of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, which was passed by Congress in 2004. As part of the initiative, in January the United States began requiring United States citizens and anyone else returning to the country by air from Canada, Mexico, Bermuda and the Caribbean to show passports. 
 By January 2008, the same requirement could apply to ground travel. For now, the department says it intends to stick with the 2008 start, even as political pressure and logistical hurdles to put the program in place appear likely to delay it.
 ''There are a lot of moving pieces, and we certainly can't nail down a final date when the notice of proposed rulemaking has not been made yet,'' said Kelly Klundt, a spokeswoman for the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, which is part of the Homeland Security Department. ''The goal is January of 2008.''
 For now, Canadians and Americans entering the United States from Canada by land or sea must show a government-issued photo ID and proof of nationality, like a birth certificate. Customs agents do not always require proof of nationality, however, and showing a driver's license is often enough to get through.
 The efforts to delay the new rule and to find alternatives come as confusion has increased about what exactly will be required to enter the United States from Canada and when those requirements will take effect.
 They also come as Washington State and British Columbia hope more than ever to convey an image of cross-border unity. The Winter Games are expected to be a boon to much of the Pacific Northwest, which many people throughout the region have long viewed as having distinctive cultural and economic ties that transcend national boundaries. 
 ''The governor believes that implementation of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative would create tremendous economic damage to the state, and Premier Campbell feels the same way,'' said Antonio Ginatta, a policy adviser to Gov. Christine Gregoire of Washington, referring to Premier Gordon Campbell of British Columbia. ''We're too closely tied together to build a fence between us.''
 The plans for the passport requirement are separate from the Homeland Security Department's plan to require states to begin issuing standardized, tamper-proof driver's licenses, known as Real ID. That effort has met fierce resistance from many states, and last month the department said it would not penalize states that did not meet the designated start date for issuing the new licenses, May 2008. The department has said it will extend the deadline for some states until December 2009.
 The department also appears to be bowing to some pressure on the passport requirement for crossing the border from Canada. This year, it said it intended to allow United States and Canadian children 15 and younger to enter the country without a passport. 
 Of the 422 million travelers who legally entered the United States in the 2006 fiscal year, according to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, about 75 million came from Canada by land. About 234 million came across the Mexican border.
 Still, officials in Canada have been focused intensely on the passport issue, particularly in light of a decline in American tourism there since the Sept. 11 attacks.
 ''Canada actually asks us like once a week, 'Do you have a final date yet?' '' Ms. Klundt said.
 Members of Congress from states including Michigan, New York and North Dakota have joined Canadian provincial leaders in asking to delay the passport requirement, but officials in Washington State and British Columbia have cast the issue as particularly urgent in light of the 2010 Winter Olympics. 
 Lines at the border crossing here in Blaine, at the terminus of Interstate 5, are longer since scrutiny increased after 9/11. While wait times can be less than 20 minutes, others last hours. Many fear that adding the passport requirement will only make the wait longer.
 Canadian officials say they worry that some United States citizens will decide against visiting Canada out of concern that getting back into their country could be difficult. And officials in Washington State worry that visitors to the Olympics might decide not to extend their visit into Washington. 
 While Washington State's enhanced driver's license would not work for non-Washington residents, officials here hope it will be part of a larger rethinking of ways to expedite passage across the border without jeopardizing security. The license would include technology enabling it to be read electronically, although travelers who have them still could face interviews and inspections. 
 A program already in use, called Nexus, allows travelers the department considers to be low risk to get electronic cards that permit expedited travel. Extensive documentation is needed to get a card. The State Department also plans to introduce a license-size identification card that could be used instead of a passport in some cases, but it is not clear when it will be ready. 
 British Columbia hopes to introduce an enhanced driver's license of its own, one that would eventually be recognized by the Homeland Security Department. But even as some Canadian leaders want to delay the passport requirement and create alternatives, they also say they want clarity on what the changes will be.
 ''It's certainly critical for the Games that we have these issues tested and operational,'' said British Columbia's minister of state for intergovernmental relations, John van Dongen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lines at the border crossing from Surrey, British Columbia, to Blaine, Wash., have grown longer since the tightening of security after 9/11. (Photo by Don MacKinnon for The New York Times)Maps of Washington highlighting Blaine: The 2010 Winter Games will be in Vancouver, British Columbia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DRIVERS LICENSES (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TERRORISM (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (61%) Travel and Vacations; United States International Relations; Olympic Games (2010); Driver's Licenses; Travel Restrictions; Travel and Vacations; Passports; Identification Devices; Olympic Games; Winter Games (Olympics); International Trade and World Market; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: William Yardley; William Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (98%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); BERMUDA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%) Vancouver (British Columbia); Canada; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



428 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: MySpace Restrictions Upset Some Users

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Some users of MySpace feel as if their space is being invaded.
 MySpace, the Web's largest social network, has gradually been imposing limits on the software tools that users can embed in their pages, like music and video players that also deliver advertising or enable transactions.
At stake is the ability of MySpace, which is owned by the News Corporation, to ensure that it alone can commercially capitalize on its 90 million visitors each month. 
 But to some formerly enthusiastic MySpace users, the new restrictions hamper their abilities to design their pages and promote new projects.
 ''The reason why I am so bummed out about MySpace now is because recently they have been cutting down our freedom and taking away our rights slowly,'' wrote Tila Tequila, a singer who is one of MySpace's most popular and visible users, in a blog posting over the weekend. ''MySpace will now only allow you to use 'MySpace' things.''
 Ms. Tequila, born Tila Nguyen, has attracted attention by linking to more than 1.7 million friends on her MySpace page. To promote her first album, she recently added to her MySpace page a new music player and music store, called the Hoooka, created by Indie911, a Los Angeles-based start-up company. 
 Users listened to her music and played the accompanying videos 20,000 times over the weekend. But the Hoooka disappeared on Sunday after a MySpace founder, Tom Anderson, personally contacted Ms. Tequila to object, according to someone with direct knowledge of the dispute. She then vented her thoughts on her personal blog.
 MySpace says that it will block these pieces of third-party software -- also called widgets -- when they lend themselves to violations of its terms of service, like the spread of pornography or copyrighted material. But it also objects to widgets that enable users to sell items or advertise without authorization, or without entering into a direct partnership with the company.
 A MySpace spokeswoman said yesterday that the service did not remove anything from Ms. Tequila's page. ''A MySpace representative contacted her and told her that she had violated our terms of service in regards to commercial activity,'' the spokeswoman said. ''She removed the material herself, after realizing it was not appropriate for MySpace.''
 Ms. Tequila and her representatives would not comment.
 But Justin Goldberg, chief executive of Indie911, said MySpace's actions undercut the notion that the social networks' users have complete creative freedom. ''We find it incredibly ironic and frustrating that a company that has built its assets on the back of its users is turning around and telling people they can't do anything that violates terms of service,'' he said. 
 ''Why shouldn't they call it FoxSpace? Or RupertSpace?'' Mr. Goldberg said, referring to the News Corporation's chief, Rupert Murdoch.
 The tussle between MySpace and Indie911 underscores tensions between established Internet companies and the latest generation of Web start-ups. Without a critical mass of visitors to their sites, many of these smaller companies are devising strategies that involve clamping on to sites like MySpace and Facebook and trying to make money off their traffic.
 MySpace, meanwhile, is trying to show that it can generate stable revenue. Google will pay it at least $900 million over the next three years to serve ads to the site's users. And last fall, MySpace announced a partnership with Snocap, a San Francisco-based company, to sell music.
 Perhaps not coincidentally, this year, MySpace blocked widgets from Revver, a video-sharing site that embeds advertisements in its clips, and Imeem, a music buying service. 
 ''Our users weren't happy,'' said Dalton Caldwell, Imeem's chief executive, who was nevertheless ambivalent about the MySpace ban because he thought the move might encourage his users to visit his site directly. ''If MySpace isn't really 'their space' after all, maybe users will think about things differently.'' 
 In the past, MySpace executives have said that the service failed to block companies like YouTube that began successful businesses from MySpace's pages.
 ''We probably should have stopped YouTube,'' Michael Barrett, chief revenue officer for Fox Interactive Media, a part of the News Corporation, said in an interview in late February. ''YouTube wouldn't exist if it wasn't for MySpace. We've created companies on our back.''
 MySpace and its corporate parent say they want to find ways to support and exploit the growing widget economy. Last year, Fox Interactive Media introduced a service called Spring Widget. The service provides tools to help developers create widgets for use both on computer desktops and online networks like MySpace.
 In a recent use of its technology, the studio behind the horror film ''Dead Silence'' used a Spring Widget tool on its promotional MySpace page to count down the minutes until the film's release.
 Fred Wilson, a New York-based venture capitalist who invests in social media companies, said the strategy showed that the News Corporation was trying to take advantage of growing interest in widgets while also trying to carefully control what made it onto MySpace.
 But that could be a dangerous strategy, Mr. Wilson said.
 ''Every attempt everyone has ever made to try to dictate what a person's Internet experience will be has ended up coming up empty,'' he said. ''You have to accept the fact that you are never going to be the be-all and end-all of everyone's experience. They are one click away from everyone else on the Web.''
 As for Ms. Tequila, who wrote on her blog that she was a personal friend of Mr. Anderson, the MySpace co-founder, she wrote that she felt bad about blasting the site but that she could not stay silent. 
 ''You guys used to be so cool,'' she wrote of MySpace. ''Don't turn into a corporate evil monster.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (77%); STARTUPS (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); PORNOGRAPHY (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Computers and the Internet; Software; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Recordings and Downloads (Video)

COMPANY: MYSPACE INC (91%); NEWS CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Myspace.com; News Corp

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (91%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%)

PERSON: Brad Stone

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



429 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: For G.O.P., First Stop on '08 Trail Is Hotbed of Immigration Politics

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Rachel Swarns contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: DES MOINES, March 17 

 BODY:
Immigration, an issue that has divided Republicans in Washington, is reverberating across the party's presidential campaign field, causing particular complications for Senator John McCain of Arizona.
 The topic came up repeatedly in recent campaign swings through Iowa by Mr. McCain and Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, another Republican who, like Mr. McCain, supports giving some illegal immigrants a path to citizenship, a position that puts them at odds with many other conservatives. Both candidates faced intensive questioning from voters on the issue, which has become more prominent in the state as immigrants are playing a larger and increasingly visible role in the economy and society.
''Immigration is probably a more powerful issue here than almost anyplace that I've been,'' Mr. McCain said after a stop in Cedar Falls.
 As he left Iowa, Mr. McCain said he was reconsidering his views on how the immigration law might be changed. He said he was open to legislation that would require people who came to the United States illegally to return home before applying for citizenship, a measure proposed by Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana. Mr. McCain has previously favored legislation that would allow most illegal immigrants to become citizens without leaving the country. 
 Beyond whatever influence it has as the state whose caucuses kick off the presidential nominating contest, Iowa has become something of a laboratory for the politics of immigration. Not only is it a place where industries like meatpacking rely heavily on immigrant workers and where a once relatively homogenous population is confronting an influx of Hispanic residents, but the presidential candidates who are criss-crossing the state are also providing forums for Iowans to express their views and influence national policy.
 On Saturday morning in Des Moines, Mr. Brownback stood for 30 minutes at a breakfast with Republicans as question after question -- without exception -- was directed at an immigration system that Iowans denounced as failing. ''These people are stealing from us,'' said Larry Smith, a factory owner from Truro and a member of the central committee of the state Republican Party.
 Finally, Mr. Brownback, with a slight smile, inquired, ''Any other topics that people want to talk about?''
 ''What are you going to do with illegal immigrants who come here and become criminals?'' demanded Jodi Wohlenhaus, a Republican homemaker who lives outside Des Moines.
 The debate on the campaign trail is both reflecting and feeding the politics of the issue in Washington. President Bush and the two parties in Congress have been engaged in a three-way negotiation that has pitted demands from many conservatives to concentrate first on improving border security against Mr. Bush's call, backed by many Democrats, for a guest worker program that could include a right for some illegal workers to eventually get legal status. 
 The issue has become much more complicated as the presidential campaign has gotten under way, exposing the Republicans in particular to voters who are angry about what they see as porous borders, growing demands from immigrants on the social welfare and education systems and job losses that they link at least in part to a low-wage labor force coming over the border.
 Mr. McCain, for example, appeared to distance himself from Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat with whom he formed an alliance last year on an immigration bill that stalled in Congress.
 ''What I've tried to point out is we couldn't pass the legislation,'' Mr. McCain said. ''So we have to change the legislation so it can pass. And I've been working with Senator Kennedy, but we've also been working with additional senators, additional House members.''
 Mr. McCain focused instead on the proposal by Mr. Pence, a conservative. ''Pence has this touchback proposal,'' Mr. McCain said at a news conference. ''I said hey, let's consider that if that's a way we can get some stuff.''
 Mr. McCain's aides said his identification with Mr. Kennedy accounted for much of his political problem on the issue with conservatives. One of his rivals for the nomination, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, has taken to attacking what he calls the McCain-Kennedy bill.
 Mr. McCain has found himself particularly identified with this battle in no small part because he is from a border state that is deeply divided over immigration. The issue is not likely to recede, regardless of the outcome of the debate in Washington: The Republican field of presidential candidates includes Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who has based his campaign on an anti-immigration message and who will almost certainly participate in Republican presidential debates starting this spring.
 In a speech to conservatives in Washington two weeks ago, Mr. Romney said: ''The current system is a virtual concrete wall against those who have skill and education, but it's a wide open walk across the border for those that have neither. And McCain-Kennedy isn't the answer.''
 Mr. Romney did not always take that position. He was quoted in The Boston Globe in November 2005 describing Mr. McCain's immigration initiatives as ''reasonable proposals,'' though he stopped short of endorsing them, the newspaper said.
 A third major Republican contender, Rudolph W. Giuliani, former mayor of New York, has supported measures similar to the one Mr. McCain is pressing. Mr. Giuliani has yet to campaign in Iowa and has not been pressed on his views on immigration; he is scheduled to spend a week in Iowa at the beginning of April.
 Mr. McCain's aides said they were confident that he could overcome concerns among Iowa voters if he pointed to the enforcement mechanisms he supports, arguing that only about one-third of Republican primary voters have strong-line views on immigration. ''How are we dealing with it?'' said John Weaver, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain. ''We're facing it head-on. John's position -- and the president's position -- is widely supported by a vast majority of primary and caucus voters.'' 
 Republicans have a tougher view than the general population on whether illegal immigrants should be deported, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted this month. In that poll, 49 percent of Republican respondents said illegal immigrants who had lived in the United States for at least two years should be given a chance to keep their jobs and eventually apply for citizenship; 45 percent said they should be deported immediately. By contrast, among the general electorate, 59 percent said they should be allowed to apply for legal status, compared with 36 percent who said they should be deported.
 The poll found that 31 percent of Republicans said immigration into the United States should be kept at its current level, 14 percent said it should be increased and a majority, 51 percent, said immigration should be decreased. Those figures were similar to the finding among the general population.
 Other Republicans said they thought Mr. McCain's identification with the push for easing immigration laws could prove to be among his greatest vulnerabilities. ''Senator McCain will be hurt badly if he continues to support a bill like last time,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama. ''I think he'll have a hard time defending that piece of legislation. I think it would be important for him to demonstrate that his position on immigration is not defined by the bill that he introduced last time.''
 Nowhere does that appear to be more the case than here, a state crucial to Mr. McCain's hopes of winning his party's nomination. A front-page article in The Des Moines Register after the first day of Mr. McCain's bus trip here focused on his defending his efforts on changing immigration laws. 
 Mr. Smith, the Republican Party central committee member, said Mr. McCain's views on immigration had eliminated him as a contender in the view of many state Republicans.
 ''I have a hard time appreciating McCain's position at all on this issue,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I feel he's been extremely weak.''
 ''When I go county to county visiting 29 counties in my area, I believe almost without exception that immigration is that issue that puts fire in their eyes,'' he said. ''They just really are livid that we have allowed this to happen to the point it has.''
 Mr. Brownback was reminded of that throughout the day on Saturday, including during his march in the St. Patrick's Day Parade up Locust Avenue in Des Moines. ''We need to build a fence,'' Mike Clark, 38, a pig farmer, told Mr. Brownback as he walked alongside him. ''We need to get them stopped.''
 Mr. McCain's suggestion that he might be open to Mr. Pence's legislation requiring most workers to return home risks alienating business, a powerful constituency in the Republican Party.
 ''The business community has always been skeptical about any requirement to make workers leave the U.S. to obtain legal status,'' said Laura Reiff, of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, which represents service industries. ''We haven't ruled a Pence-like touchback completely out of the question, but it would need to be an efficient, functional process.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Immigration is probably a more powerful issue here than almost anyplace that I've been,'' Senator John McCain said on a recent trip to Iowa. (Photo by Greg Brown/Associated Press)
 Senator Sam Brownback, right, with Pat Hickey at the St. Patrick's Day parade in Des Moines, where he heard from voters on immigration. (Photo by Charlie Neibergall/Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); REFUGEES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); NATURALIZATION (79%); IMMIGRATION LAW (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Citizenship; Primaries; Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues ; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (90%); MIKE PENCE (79%) Adam Nagourney; John S (Sen) Mccain; Sam (Sen) Brownback

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%) IOWA, USA (96%); KANSAS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



430 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: RUSSIA TELLS IRAN IT MUST SUSPEND URANIUM PROJECT

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; David E. Sanger and Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: PARIS, March 19 

 BODY:
Russia has informed Iran that it will withhold nuclear fuel for Iran's nearly completed Bushehr power plant unless Iran suspends its uranium enrichment as demanded by the United Nations Security Council, European, American and Iranian officials say.
 The ultimatum was delivered in Moscow last week by Igor S. Ivanov, the secretary of the Russian National Security Council, to Ali Hosseini Tash, Iran's deputy chief nuclear negotiator, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because a confidential diplomatic exchange between two governments was involved.
For years, President Bush has been pressing President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to cut off help to Iran on the nuclear power plant that Russia is building at Bushehr, in southern Iran. But Mr. Putin has resisted. The project is Tehran's first serious effort to produce nuclear energy and has been very profitable for Russia. 
 Recently, however, Moscow and Tehran have been engaged in a public argument about whether Iran has paid its bills, which may explain Russia's apparent shift. But the ultimatum may also reflect an increasing displeasure and frustration on Moscow's part with Iran over its refusal to stop enriching uranium at its vast facility at Natanz. 
 ''We're not sure what mix of commercial and political motives are at play here,'' one senior Bush administration official said in Washington. ''But clearly the Russians and the Iranians are getting on each other's nerves -- and that's not all bad.''
 A senior European official said: ''We consider this a very important decision by the Russians. It shows that our disagreements with the Russians about the dangers of Iran's nuclear program are tactical. Fundamentally, the Russians don't want a nuclear Iran.''
 At a time of growing tensions between Washington and Moscow, American officials are welcoming Russian support on the situation with Iran as a sign that there are still areas in which the two powers can cooperate. 
 Russia has been deeply reluctant to ratchet up sanctions against Iran in the Security Council, which is expected to vote on a new set of penalties against the country within the next week. 
 But American officials have been trying to create a commercial incentive for Russia to put pressure on Iran. One proposal the Bush administration has endorsed since late 2005 envisions having the Russians enrich Iran's uranium in Russia. That creates the prospect of tens or hundreds of millions of dollars in business for Russia, and a way to ensure that Iran receives only uranium enriched for use in power reactors, instead of for use in weapons.
 Iran has rejected those proposals, saying it has the right to enrich uranium on its own territory. 
 The Russian Atomic Energy Agency, or Rosatom, is eager to become a major player in the global nuclear energy market. As Security Council action against Iran has gained momentum and Iran's isolation increases, involvement with the Bushehr project may detract from Rosatom's reputation.
 In a flurry of public comments in the past month, Russian officials acknowledged that Russia was delaying the delivery of fuel to the reactor in the Iranian port city of Bushehr. It blamed the decision on the failure of Iran to pay what it owes on the project, not on concerns about nuclear proliferation.
 But last month, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov informed some European officials that Russia had made a political decision not to deliver the fuel, adding that Russia would state publicly that the sole reason was financial, European officials said.
 And then last week, a senior Iranian official confirmed in an interview that Mr. Ivanov had threatened Iran with an ultimatum: The fuel would be delivered only after Iran's enrichment of uranium at Natanz was frozen.
 Members of the Security Council are moving toward a vote this week on a draft resolution imposing further sanctions on Iran for its defiance of demands that it suspend enrichment activities and return to negotiations over its nuclear program.
 The resolution focuses on the country's arms exports, a leading Iranian bank and the elite Revolutionary Guards military force. It will reduce Iran's access to foreign currency and isolate the bank, Bank Sepah, from international financing.
 The United States State Department has granted visas to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran and a retinue of 38 aides and security staff so that he can address the Security Council meeting.
 Throughout the negotiations, the Russians tried to water down the resolution, a reflection of both their desire to avoid a backlash in Iran and their strong skepticism about the effectiveness of sanctions.
 The pending resolution follows a similar one passed in December that required four months of negotiations, in large part because of Russia's resistance. Russia's support came only after an initial proposal, which would have imposed curbs on Bushehr, was dropped.
 Russian officials have gone out of their way to not publicly link the Bushehr project and the crisis over Iran's decision to forge ahead with producing enriched uranium, which, depending on the level of enrichment, can be used to produce electricity or make weapons.
 In remarks on Sunday, for example, Mr. Ivanov said there should be no linkage between discussions on Iran's nuclear program and the Bushehr plant. ''It is a separate issue,'' he told a conference of Russia's Foreign and Defense Policies Council. He added, ''All the work being done is under strict control of the International Atomic Energy Agency,'' the United Nations' nuclear watchdog agency based in Vienna.
 He also cautioned against using possible nuclear sanctions for other purposes, saying, ''We oppose attempts to use this issue as an instrument of pressure or interference in Iran's internal affairs.''
 But Mr. Ivanov also called on Iran to resolve outstanding questions with the agency about its nuclear program and to stop enriching uranium. The Russians have been pressing Iran to take some sort of pause in its uranium enrichment that might allow the Security Council sanction process to halt and bring Iran back to the negotiating table.
 ''The clock must be stopped; Iran must freeze uranium enrichment,'' Mr. Ivanov said. ''The U.N. Security Council will then take a break, too, and the parties would gather at the negotiating table.''
 The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, has also called for a ''pause,'' noting that even a brief suspension of enrichment would be enough to get the United States to the negotiating table with Iran under an offer that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made in May.
 The Bushehr nuclear project has a long history. For more than a decade, Russia has been working under a $1 billion contract to complete the plant, which began with Germany during the time of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. After the 1979 revolution, the project was halted; then the site was bombed by Iraq during its eight-year war with Iran. When Iran decided to complete the facility after the war ended, Germany, under pressure from the United States, refused to finish it, or even provide Moscow with the original blueprints.
 The project -- already eight years behind schedule -- is now almost complete. Last year, Russia agreed to ship low-enriched fuel to the plant by March 2007 and start it in September, with electricity generation to start by November.
 But in mid-February, Russia said Iran had not made the last two $25 million monthly payments after insisting that it be allowed to pay in euros instead of dollars. Russian officials cited a delay in the delivery of safety equipment from an unspecified third country as another reason for the decision.
 Iranian officials denied that payments had been delayed. ''Iran has had no delay whatsoever in making payments for the Bushehr nuclear power plant,'' Mohammad Saeedi, deputy head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, was quoted by Iran's state-run news agency IRNA as saying after the Russian claim.
 ''We would be crazy at this late date to endanger the project by not paying,'' the official said. ''There is no financial problem. The Russians want to use this issue as a bargaining chip.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); ARMS TRADE (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%) United States International Relations; Arms Sales Abroad; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) Security Council (Un)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN (92%) Iran; Russia; Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007



431 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: A Glimpse of a More Vertical Los Angeles

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Long before ''the new urbanism'' became a tired phrase, Playa Vista, the last remaining large tract of undeveloped land on this city's traffic-choked West Side, was envisioned as a place where people could live, work, shop and play without leaving their neighborhood.
 Now a community of 4,500 people, Playa Vista is situated between Westchester Bluffs and Marina del Rey, about a mile from the Pacific Ocean. It is dotted with small parks and made up of blocks of four-story buildings, mainly condominiums, in styles that include Spanish, Art Deco and contemporary, and will eventually contain nearly 6,000 units of housing.
 With about 32 units to an acre, according to Steve Soboroff, the president of Playa Vista, it is one of the densest residential communities in Southern California and a harbinger, some say, of Los Angeles's vertical future. 
 Though Playa Vista encourages its residents to travel around their new neighborhood in electric carts, it has yet to free them from their cars. Commercial development has been confined so far to a smattering of retail storefronts and a glassy complex at the intersection of Jefferson and Lincoln Boulevards that has been leased since 2003 by Electronic Arts, the video game manufacturer.
 But a new stage in the community's evolution is about to arrive. Two major developers are planning large Silicon Valley-style projects that they hope to lease to the type of new-media companies that have been flocking to the West Side.
 In February, Tishman Speyer, the company that owns Rockefeller Center, and its financial partner, Walton Street Capital, acquired a 64-acre site near Jefferson and Centinela Avenue, on the eastern edge of Playa Vista, for $200 million. It is the same site where DreamWorks, the movie company, once intended to build a studio that would have been Playa Vista's showpiece. But those plans were shelved in 1999. A couple of years later, the office market went into decline.
 The timing is right for Tishman Speyer to begin developing a 1.1-million-square-foot campus of low-slung buildings, said John R. Miller, a senior managing director. 
 ''It's only recently that this made economic sense,'' Mr. Miller said. The complex will surround a nine-acre park with ball fields and tennis courts to be developed by Playa Vista. 
 Symantec, the Internet security technology company, is building a campus on nine acres near Playa Vista in Fox Hills, and Yahoo took 256,000 square feet of space at the former Colorado Center in Santa Monica in 2005.
 Though the vacancy rate on the West Side is less than 6 percent, new construction has been hindered by a scarcity of land and strong public resistance to development. Only 65,000 square feet of new space was added to the market in 2006, according to the CoStar Group, a real estate research company in Bethesda, Md.
 Playa Vista sits on land once owned by Howard Hughes, the eccentric aviation pioneer and filmmaker. The Tishman site includes 16 structures that were built from 1941 to 1953 for the Hughes Aircraft Corporation, including the hangar where Mr. Hughes created the flying boat known as the Spruce Goose. Because of their role in the development of the aerospace industry in Southern California, most of these buildings are listed on the National Register of Historic Places and must be preserved.
 Mr. Miller acknowledged that it would have been easier to start with ''a clean slate.'' But he said his company was toying with the possibility of modernizing the Spruce Goose hangar, which has been used as a soundstage in recent years for movies, including ''Titanic'' and ''World Trade Center.''
 Near Tishman Speyer's site, another national developer, the Lincoln Property Company of Dallas, has begun driving piles into the ground for the first phase of Horizon at Playa Vista, which will consist of two five-story buildings totaling about a million square feet of office space, also for prospective new-media tenants. 
 Playa Vista has ''a lot of things that are un-L.A. in a good way,'' said David S. Binswanger, an executive vice president at Lincoln. ''We looked at the Playa culture and we looked at the culture of the tenants, and we decided they matched awfully well.''
 Another selling point, he said, was the Village at Playa Vista, the new town center that Rick J. Caruso, the developer of the Grove, the popular open-air retail-and-entertainment center near the Farmers Market on Third Street and Fairfax Avenue, plans to build on an 11-acre site near the office complexes.
 Mr. Caruso said the new center would have a ''beachier'' atmosphere than the Grove and would be smaller and more locally focused, with an upscale supermarket, 175 luxury rental apartments and a movie theater. Construction has been delayed by a long-running environmental lawsuit concerning the cleanup of gases emitted at the former industrial site.
 In 1978 a previous owner, the Summa Corporation, a company managed by the Hughes heirs, announced plans to develop Playa Vista, prompting one of the most protracted development battles in the history of Los Angeles. Opponents said the project would destroy the fragile Ballona Wetlands to the east of Lincoln Boulevard and would have devastating consequences involving traffic and air pollution. 
 In the intervening years, the project has been vastly reduced in scale from the huge commercial development that Summa intended to build, and more than 600 acres of land have been preserved as open space.
 In 1989, a new owner, Maguire Thomas, brought in a group of architects from the fledgling New Urbanist movement, including Andres Duany and Stefanos Polyzoides, to design a mixed-use village inspired by pedestrian-friendly places like Santa Barbara. ''Playa Vista was the beginning, of the recognition that planning standards from the post-World War II era were wrong and counterproductive,'' said Nelson C. Rising, who managed the project for Maguire Thomas.
 But litigation tied up the project for years, and Maguire Thomas lost control of it in 1997. The current owners, Playa Capital, a group led by Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, hired a management team from Orange County with a more suburban orientation than Mr. Rising, said Ruth Galanter, a former City Council member who was elected because of her opposition to Summa's plans for Playa Vista. Land was sold to 15 separate builders and the design standards were sacrificed, she said.
 Many design and planning specialists fault Playa Vista for its narrow sidewalks, the uniform height of its buildings and architecture they regard as uninspired. ''It's such a comedown from what Maguire Thomas initially proposed,'' said Richard S. Weinstein, a professor of architecture and urban planning at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''It's one of the biggest pieces of undeveloped land of any city in the U.S., and you build exactly what you would produce on any corner lot.''
 But Mr. Soboroff, a former president of the City Parks Commission, who joined Playa Vista in 2001 after the project was under way, dismissed such complaints as the grumbling of purists. ''This is not a purebred, this is a Prius,'' he said. ''If we were doing pure, we'd still be an airport.''
 And Ms. Galanter, who was instrumental in forging a plan to save much of the wetlands from development, said there was still much to admire in Playa Vista, including a new fresh-water marsh, a first-rate water management system and housing discounts for police officers, firefighters, nurses and teachers.
 ''Playa Vista fell short of what it could have been,'' Ms. Galanter said. But, she said, it was ''a lot better than any other development of the same size that I know of, certainly in Southern California.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Playa Vista development in Los Angeles, top, which has 4,500 residents. Steve Soboroff, above, the president of Playa Vista, said it was one of the densest residential communities in Southern California. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); FILM (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (66%); COMPUTER GAMES (51%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (50%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%) Geographic Profiles; Area Planning and Renewal; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Renting and Leasing 

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (68%); SYMANTEC CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Tishman Speyer Properties; Lincoln Property Co; Walton Street Capital

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (68%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (68%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif); Playa Vista (Los Angeles); Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



432 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Once Again, Debt Is Miscast As the Villain

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Later this year, the National Film Preservation Foundation is going to re-release a silent movie from 1912 called ''The Usurer's Grip.'' It's a cautionary tale about borrowed money that revolves around the Jenkses, a fictional middle-class family who need a $25 loan so their young daughter can be treated for consumption. After a loan shark tricks Mr. Jenks into borrowing at an interest rate of 180 percent, the family is brought to the brink of ruin.
 The timing of the re-release is coincidental, but it really couldn't be better. Just like the Jenkses, thousands of families have recently fallen sway to the sweet promises of moneylenders. Today's version of the story typically involves a house that a buyer couldn't actually afford or a refinanced mortgage that had a devil lurking in the fine print. As everyone knows by now, delinquencies and foreclosures have started rising, and they will certainly rise further. 
 Most worrisome of all, the mortgage boom of the last few years wasn't an isolated phenomenon. It was instead the newest way for consumers to go into debt. The small consumer loan of the Jenkses' day begot the installment loan, which begot the credit card and eventually the interest-only adjustable-rate mortgage. Now, a lot of people are saying that the economy is finally going to pay the price for its spendthrift ways. 
 Which, when you stop and think about it, is roughly the same warning we have been hearing since at least 1912. 
 Americans have a very strange relationship with debt. We seem to take on more of it than any other society ever has, but, boy, do we like to beat ourselves up about it. Benjamin Franklin implored his fellow citizens, for the sake of their own independence, not to become ''a slave to the lender.'' Those of us in the media tend to focus on the economic risks. ''Never Have So Many Owed So Much,'' as one recent headline in U.S. News & World Report put it (if, that is, you consider 1959 to be recent).
 At this point, it would clearly be a little crazy to dismiss the mortgage meltdown as insignificant. More than a few families are going to lose their homes this year, either because they were misled or because they were unrealistic. The fallout will further weaken the housing market and has the potential to spill over into other parts of the economy, as Alan Greenspan warned last week. Mr. Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, puts the odds of a recession by the end of the year at one in three.
 But whatever happens, it's important to remember that the mortgage market is following a classic cycle that nearly every other form of consumer credit has also followed. When somebody comes up with an innovation, be it consumer loans, credit cards or creative mortgages, it inevitably leads to an explosion of borrowing that includes a good amount of excess and downright abuse. After the abuse is cleaned up, though, most families end up better off.
 That's what I find so appealing about ''The Usurer's Grip.'' It came out at a time very much like today, when the excesses were becoming so obvious that they obscured almost everything else. The producer of the movie was a man named Arthur Ham, not yet 30 years old at the time and arguably the Progressive movement's leading crusader against the consumer-loan business, according to Lendol Calder, a historian at Augustana College in Illinois who is an expert on debt. To Mr. Ham, moneylenders were ''sharks, leeches and remorseless extortioners'' with ''an arrogant disregard of human rights.''
 And some clearly were. But Mr. Ham didn't really distinguish between the true sharks and the lenders who were in fact selling a useful new product, namely loans for ordinary families. To him, anyone charging a higher interest rate than banks then charged businesses (6 percent) was a crook. 
 This, Mr. Calder argues, made the message of the movie ''more wrong than right.'' Mr. Ham himself came to realize as much in the years that followed. By 1916, he had teamed up with the better elements of the lending business to pass laws that set a standard rate of 42 percent -- an eye-popping rate by today's standard but, at the time, still progress. ''It was the birth of the modern personal finance business,'' Mr. Calder says.
 It's easy to see everything since then as a step in the wrong direction, to romanticize a time when debt was less common. But think about what life was like before easy money. Think about how hard it would be to buy a house or pay for college if a 42 percent interest rate still seemed normal. 
 Some of the changes are surprisingly recent. Just a generation ago, a temporary setback, like illness, divorce or job loss, was much more likely to force a family to take drastic measures than it is today. That's in large measure because of debt, which allows families to smooth out the rough edges of their financial lives. 
 You can see this change in the national statistics on consumer spending. Since the early 1990s, the peaks in spending growth rates haven't been as high as they were in the 1960s, '70s and '80s, but the valleys haven't been as low, either. Not coincidentally, recessions have come less often over the last two decades and they have been fairly mild.
 Mortgages are a big part of this story. Thanks to the enormous amount of foreign capital that has flowed into the market over the last decade -- the same influx of capital, yes, that helped cause the boom to get out of hand -- the mortgage business has become bigger, more competitive and more innovative. 
 If you take out a mortgage today, you'll pay thousands of dollars less in upfront fees than you would have in the mid-80s. (Those fees have fallen by 80 percent in just two decades.) Home buyers who know they're going to live in their house for only a few years now also have the ability to get an interest rate that reflects their situation. The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage isn't the only game in town. 
 Of course, people in the mortgage business -- the brokers, lenders and Wall Street executives who brought you the meltdown -- like to argue that the current problems are mere footnotes compared with all the progress. They are wrong about that. The excesses were real, and they were big. We're still figuring out just how big.
 The solution will have to involve new guidelines, voluntary or government-imposed, that force lenders to be clearer about the terms they're offering borrowers. But as long as we take tough measures to clean up the mess, we'll end up with a healthier mortgage market than we had beforehand. And then we can go looking for the next form of debt to captivate and torment us.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from the 1912 movie ''The Usurer's Grip,'' a film about debt. (Photo by The National Film Preservation Foundation)(pg. C1)Chart: ''More Predictable Consumers''The growth in consumer spending has become less volatile in recent years.Graph tracks the yearly growth in consumer spending, four-quarter moving average since 1955.(Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis
Moody's Economy.com)(pg. C8)Chart: ''Affordable Closings''The upfront cost of buying a home has fallen steadily.Graph tracks initial mortgage fees and points as a percentage of total mortgage, four-quarter moving average since 1986.(Sources by Census Bureau
Moody's Economy.com
 Federal Housing Finance Board)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FAMILY (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (88%); FORECLOSURE (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); RECESSION (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%) Housing; Motion Pictures; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Housing

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



433 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: In Two Concerts, a Russian Is a Russian Is a Russian

BYLINE: By BERNARD HOLLAND

 BODY:
On Sunday afternoon at Avery Fisher Hall the Russian National Orchestra played music by Russian Romantics, including a superbeloved Rachmaninoff piece for piano and orchestra. On Monday night at Avery Fisher Hall the National Philharmonic of Russia played music by Russian Romantics, including a superbeloved Rachmaninoff piece for piano and orchestra. I went to both concerts, but one or the other would have done.
 Every time you look up there is another Russian orchestra onstage. Russia's newfound free-market economy and the resulting scramble for financial survival must be a shock to a lot of them. Evidently the National Philharmonic is in a cozier spot, having President Vladimir V. Putin as its personal godfather. Still, export or die seems the motto for this parade of visitors, whose rivals seem not to be other international orchestras but one another. Getting together and comparing travel schedules might be helpful. 
When they come, we know what we are going to get: big Russian music conveyed by big Russian sound reinforced by oversized string sections. (Monday's program listed 32 violins, but I thought I counted more.) Often attached to these events are Russian pianists or violinists of howitzerlike virtuosity. Tender foreign sensibilities are not used to such firepower. When the Russian National Orchestra played in New York last week, it was a Greek, Leonidas Kavakos, playing -- what else? -- the Tchaikovsky Violin Concerto.
 Surprise is not on the menu at these events. If you have not heard the Rhapsody or the Concerto in the last few hours, do not worry. They are coming soon to an elevator near you. How terribly these lovely works have been abused by the ambitious, strip-mined of their freshness. Nikolai Lugansky played Rachmaninoff on Sunday and was an absolute whiz at the piano. Olga Kern played Rachmaninoff on Monday and was an absolute whiz at the piano. 
 Given Ms. Kern's swooning luftpauses, rubbery rubato and arbitrary tempo changes, Mr. Lugansky came off as the truer musician. Ms. Kern's conductor, Vladimir Spivakov, was so palpably confused by her sudden shifts of gear that the first movement very nearly fell apart. Yet here were two pianists and two sides of the same tradition. In a mutuality of career-building, Lug/Kern knocked the stuffings out of the Rhap/Con.
 Is there no interesting Russian music written after Shostakovich? Are these musicians so lacking in curiosity about the rest of the world, or are powerful patriotic bearhugs all we are likely to get? The most provoking piece during these two days was the Glazunov Sixth Symphony conducted by Mikhail Pletnev on Sunday, music of endearing sweetness written in 1896. Welcome as well on Monday was the better-known ''Symphonic Dances,'' perhaps the most sophisticated music Rachmaninoff ever wrote.
 You can't help loving that great wall of Russian orchestral sound, a noise we would take for obesity were it not for the dark, intense shine that reaches down to the floorboards and out to the farthest backbench string player. Tchaikovsky's ''Francesca da Rimini'' on Sunday had an almost frantic emotionalism. The Russian National on Sunday had a richer Russian sound than the better established National Philharmonic, even with its ambassador-at-large credentials.
 Both orchestras felt no shame in making big points by being loud. So deafening were the cymbals and gongs at the end of ''Francesca da Rimini'' that nothing else could be heard. Shostakovich's joyously propagandistic ''Festive Overture'' on Monday shrieked, yelled and boomed at the top of its voice.
 Certainly these two concerts bumped into each other accidentally, but they are more typical than not. All of us are beset by sameness. Driving toward Amsterdam on a Dutch superhighway, one could just as well be in New Jersey. Italian teenagers wear Harvard sweatshirts. Russian orchestras are different and tell us about a specific place. We have to preserve that.
 But these programs? One explanation for them is patriotic: this is their music proudly presented. Another explanation is commercial: many orchestras chasing a finite audience have to play what sells. Other possibilities: Are Russians revealing their own limited tastes, or their contempt for ours?

GRAPHIC: Photos: Playing Rachmaninoff: Nikolai Lugansky, top, with the Russian National Orchestra
Olga Kern with the National Philharmonic of Russia. (Photo by Paul Hawthorne for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Nan Melville for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); LITERATURE (74%); SURFACE MINING (63%) Books and Literature; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Computers and the Internet; Music

ORGANIZATION: Powell's Books; Russian National Orchestra; National Philharmonic of Russia

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Julie Bosman; Ian Mcewan; Bernard Holland

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (59%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Portland (Ore); Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



434 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW: LAST CHANCE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Collective Creation, in Philadelphia and Beyond

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, March 16 

 BODY:
The city of brotherly -- and sisterly -- love is home to an unusual number of art collectives, specialized communities of shared interests in which groups of artists work and, often, live together under one roof. 
 And there are more of them than ever in town at present, thanks to ''Locally Localized Gravity'' at the Institute of Contemporary Art, an exhibition in the form of a series of events that brings four homegrown collectives together with others from cities around the country.
 Communal art-making has a long modern history, from the Russian Revolution to the Flower Power 1960s and beyond. Collectives come in all sizes and forms. Some are based on political convictions; others function like Edenic play groups, or extended families, or cottage-industry ateliers. One way or another, like-mindedness is the binder. If you're going to share a bathroom and breakfast table with people, you had better like the way they think. 
 You also had better be ready to defer to group needs. Most collectives are economically self-sustaining, with members pooling individual resources to pay the rent or working together to generate marketable services or products. And, aesthetically, they are worlds unto themselves. Space 1026, one Philadelphia's oldest and largest collectives, occupies two floors of a funky downtown building once owned by a jewelry-making company, from which it has carved a gallery, a performance space, print and design workshops, shared studios and a gift shop. 
 Space 1026 began a decade ago as a spinoff from other collectives in Providence, R.I., another city with dynamic art schools and relatively cheap rents, at a buffering distance from New York and its market machinery. Group members have come and gone, but most keep returning, drawn to the ideal of a community set apart from art world business-as-usual, an environment in which art is lived as well as made and in which talents and ideas can develop slowly and organically. Judging by the recent resurgence of collectives across the country, a lot of artists are feeling a similar attraction. 
 ''Locally Localized Gravity'' is, as a show, a movable and participatory feast. The environments set up in the gallery are basically stages waiting for performers -- artists and visitors -- to arrive. To ask why it doesn't have more conventional art objects, or why they aren't better made, is to miss the whole point. Contingency is the point: change, revision, make-it-and-throw-it-away.
 Not that there aren't some spectacular sights. Space 1026 contributes a fairy-tale cluster of walk-in towers -- one functions as a gallery and two serve as video booths -- shingled in rainbow-colored prints by all of the collectives' 30 members. 
 Other environments are more stripped-down. LTTR, a peripatetic queer feminist collective based in New York City, presents videos of its performances and a tabletop display of its art journal, some issues of which are actually multiple items, printed or otherwise, packed in a clear plastic bag. 
 Another Philadelphia group, Basekamp, has set up two picnic tables piled with fliers, papers and posters. These are byproducts of its ''Plausible Artworlds'' project, which consists of group discussions, live and on the Internet, focusing on themes like the politics of art history, art and activism, and the history of collectivity. 
 Almost everything else takes the form of a self-contained space within the larger gallery. Red76, a collective from Portland, Ore., spearheaded by the artist Sam Gould, assembled a kind of lean-to from which street performances called ''Revolutionary Days'' have emerged during the course of the show. A solar hothouse erected by the Philadelphia collective LURE (Lighting for Urban Rooftop Environments) is a setting for environment-friendly events. 
 Matthew Bakkom of Minneapolis provides a modular unit of facing benches as the visual component for group research projects he organizes, one of which took place in a branch of the city's public library. 
 And Fritz Haeg, who runs an educational salon called Sundown Schoolhouse in Los Angeles, raised a dome-shape tent in the gallery for, among others things, creative writing workshops. (One, titled ''The Fine Art of Writing Bad Poetry,'' included group recitations of verse by the pop star Jewel, followed by critiques.) 
 Finally, Philadelphia's Black Floor Gallery (which recently changed its name to Copy) is represented by a plain, wheeled platform, left empty until used. It has served as a stage for one-day painting shows, a rock concert and a craft fair. When I was there a Ping-Pong match was in progress. 
 How seriously to take all of this is a question. Is the vogue for collectives just about a bunch of kids wanting to have fun? Is it a feel-good cosmetic gloss on an art industry obsessed with money and product? Or is it a new kind of politics-as-play, a carnivalesque version of an industrial strike: nonparticipation -- passivity -- as activism? 
 If there is no single, easy answer, there is certainly a lot of activity to prompt questions. LTTR is a consistently stimulating and radical presence in New York. Space 1026 will soon be a presence there, too, with a show at Cinders Gallery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, at the end of this month. 
 And ''Locally Localized Gravity'' will wrap up this weekend with a three-day blowout of lectures, poetry readings, exhibitions, street performances, music and a pirate radio transmitter workshop. The goal of the workshop is to instruct anyone who wants to join in on how to get alternative voices -- theirs, yours, mine -- out there, albeit illegally, on the airwaves. The messages delivered don't have to be polemical, but they also probably won't be party-line. The idea is that any alternative, no matter how soft, is better than none.''Locally Localized Gravity'' continues through Sunday at the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania, 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia; (215) 898-7108.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An installation view of Space 1026's contribution to ''Locally Localized Gravity'' in Philadelphia. (Photo by Aaron Igler)
Left, Anton Carlone during a Space 1026 performance event
right, a view of LTTR's installation at the Institute of Contemporary Art exhibition. (Photos by Left, Institute of Contemporary Art
 right, Aaron Igler) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FAMILY (69%); HISTORY (55%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Institute of Contemporary Art (Philadelphia)

PERSON: Holland Cotter

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



435 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Bounce Back, but Building Permits Drop Again

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
Construction of new homes rebounded in February after a steep slide in January, but a further decline in building permits was seen as worrisome for the troubled housing industry.
 The building of new homes and apartments rose 9 percent in February, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.525 million units, the Commerce Department reported on Tuesday. Construction fell 14.3 percent in January, to the slowest pace in more than nine years. 
Even with the better-than-expected rebound, activity remained 28.5 percent below the level of a year ago, underscoring housing's steep downturn.
 Applications by builders for new permits, a gauge of future activity, continued falling in February, dropping by 2.5 percent, to an annual rate of 1.532 million units. It was the 12th decline in the last 13 months in building permits.
 Patrick Newport, an economist with Global Insight, forecast that housing construction would decline by 19 percent this year, shaving overall economic growth by nearly one percentage point for the entire year.
 David F. Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders, said the organization's survey of builder sentiment tumbled in early March. Many builders expressed concern that tighter loan requirements prompted by rising mortgage delinquencies would hurt sales.
 ''About 30 percent of the builders responding to the survey said their sales have been adversely affected since the beginning of the year by the tightening of loan standards,'' Mr. Seiders said.
 By region, the West led the gains in construction, posting a 26.4 percent jump, which was the best showing since January 1997. Construction activity was also up in the South, increasing by 18 percent, the biggest percentage gain in that region in nearly two years.
 Construction fell by 29.7 percent in the Northeast, the biggest one-month plunge in that region since December 1990. Construction fell in the Midwest by 14.4 percent after a 16.4 percent decline in January.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Housing starts rose 18 percent in the South. This project is in Florida. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (94%); BUILDING PERMITS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%) Housing; Housing Starts; Building (Construction)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (78%); MIDWEST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



436 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Trial Begins For Ex-Chief Of Hollinger

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 20 

 BODY:
Two wildly different portraits of Conrad M. Black were presented to the jury in opening arguments Tuesday at the criminal trial against the former newspaper baron and three colleagues.
 In the version put forward by a prosecutor, Mr. Black is a thief who is different from a bank robber only in that his methods involve artfully worded memorandums and he wears suits and ties.
Jeffrey H. Cramer, an assistant United States attorney, began his opening statement to the jury by saying, ''You are sitting in a room with four men who stole $60 million.''
 In the view of Mr. Black's defense lawyer, however, he is a law-abiding entrepreneur who has been smeared by the accusations that he and three former executives looted the newspaper company Mr. Black built and ran. 
 ''This isn't a story about a theft by Conrad Black,'' Edward M. Genson told the jury. ''This is a story about theft from him.''
 Mr. Black and the other defendants -- Jack A. Boultbee, Mark S. Kipnis and Peter Y. Atkinson -- are accused of helping themselves to unauthorized bonuses. Mr. Black is also individually facing charges of abusing company perquisites, racketeering and obstruction of justice. 
 In laying out its prosecution against Mr. Black, now a Briton who gave up citizenship in his native Canada to become Lord Black of Crossharbour, Mr. Cramer portrayed the defendant as someone who betrayed the trust of directors and the public shareholders. They owned the majority of the equity in Hollinger International, the company Mr. Black built over three decades. 
 During his 90-minute opening statement, Mr. Cramer sought to educate the jury about the global newspaper empire Mr. Black built. Mr. Cramer spoke of the web of companies Mr. Black controlled, and the way in which, Mr. Cramer said, Mr. Black misused so-called noncompete agreements to skim millions from the company as it sold more than $3 billion worth of newspapers in the United States and Canada from 1998 to 2001. 
 In one instance, he said, the executives received money for signing agreements that they would not compete with a subsidiary of Hollinger International -- in effect, agreeing not to compete with themselves.
 Mr. Kipnis, a company lawyer who arranged many of the payments at the heart of the case, did not receive any of the payments but received $150,000 in bonuses. 
 ''His price was just a little lower,'' Mr. Cramer said.
 At one point, Mr. Cramer stood across from the table where Mr. Black was seated, stared at him, and angrily described Mr. Black as having ''decided how much of the shareholders' money he would take.'' 
 Mr. Black's stern expression did not change but his face turned slightly red as he stared straight ahead. 
 It was clear from Mr. Cramer's statement that the case against Mr. Black would rely heavily on testimony from Hollinger's star-studded board -- which was hand-picked by Mr. Black -- as well as by Mr. Black's former partner, F. David Radler, who has pleaded guilty to fraud and agreed to testify for the prosecution. 
 In the last week, Mr. Radler has also agreed to pay more than $100 million to settle civil litigation with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Sun-Times Media Group, as Hollinger International is now called, stemming from allegations of fraud. 
 In particular, Mr. Cramer said the former audit committee of the Chicago-based Hollinger International will offer critical testimony.
 Its members included James R. Thompson, the former Illinois governor and United States attorney; Richard Burt, a former United States ambassador to Germany; and Marie-Josee Kravis, an economist who is the wife of the financier Henry Kravis. 
 ''The audit committee members will tell you they were never given full and accurate disclosure,'' Mr. Cramer said. 
 Mr. Radler, he added, will give ''an inside look at how they went about stealing $60 million; Radler will tell you how it worked.''
 The $60 million was lower than a figure of more than $80 million that had been used in the indictment against Mr. Black and the others, and seemed to reflect a decision by the government to no longer challenge one payment made to Mr. Black.
 In his opening, Mr. Genson depicted Mr. Black as a tireless businessman and author who hobnobbed with the rich and famous and a man for whom there was no distinction between his personal life and his business interests. 
 Perhaps in an attempt to defuse at least the tone of some evidence, Mr. Genson described Mr. Black as being egotistical and arrogant and prone to oratorical flourishes. 
 In one e-mail message the jury was shown by the prosecution, Mr. Black described queries from shareholders about his pay as an ''epidemic of shareholder idiocy.'' 
 Another e-mail message to Mr. Radler referred to the ''splendid conveyance of the noncompetition agreements from which you and I profited so well and deservedly.'' 
 But Mr. Genson said that Mr. Black's florid style did not mean he was a criminal, and he noted that there was no accounting scandal or bankruptcy at Hollinger International the way there was at Enron. 
 ''His life is different than ours -- it's not better, it's just different,'' Mr. Genson said of Mr. Black. ''You can't allow the sparkle of wealth to blind you as to the facts of this case.''
 At one point, the lawyer joked that one goal over the course of the trial was to get Mr. Black -- who sat slouching and grim throughout much of the proceedings and during jury selection last week -- to sit straight in his chair. 
 Referring specifically to the idea that Mr. Black misled members of Hollinger's board, Mr. Genson said these are ''not people you could go in and trip and bully.'' 
 He spent much of his presentation trying to distance Mr. Black from Mr. Radler, whom he characterized as a liar who had turned against his longtime partner to assure himself a more lenient prison sentence that he could be able to serve in Canada. 
 One of the biggest questions in the case is whether the jury will accept that portrayal or will instead accept the prosecution's view that even though Mr. Radler was his hatchet man, Mr. Black knew exactly what he was doing. 
 Mr. Genson also pointed out that Mr. Black oversaw the company's newspaper interests in Britain and Canada, while Mr. Radler oversaw the company's ownership of The Jerusalem Post and its United States papers, which at one point included 400 community newspapers and The Chicago Sun-Times. 
 While Mr. Cramer told the jury that the buyers of several groups of small-town newspapers would be testifying that they did not ask for the agreements that funneled millions to the defendants, Mr. Genson argued that those same newspaper buyers would also testify that they never knew Mr. Black and dealt only with Mr. Radler.
 Similarly, Mr. Genson said, it was Mr. Radler's responsibility to obtain the approval for the noncompete payments from the audit committee. 
 The trial will also include accusations that Mr. Black abused perquisites. These include charges that Mr. Black stole money from the company by using the company jet to fly to Bora Bora for a vacation with his wife and refused to pay for it and that he defrauded the company on the purchase of a Park Avenue apartment. Mr. Genson said he would disprove all the accusations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ETHICS (74%); ROBBERY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Racketeering and Racketeers ; Frauds and Swindling; Bonuses 

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Hollinger International Inc; Hollinger International Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: Conrad M Black; Richard Siklos; Jack Boultbee; Mark Kipnis; Peter Atkinson; Jeffrey H Cramer; Edward M Genson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



437 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise as Optimism in Tech Sector Offers Comfort

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Shares rose yesterday as takeover activity in the technology sector reassured investors about equity valuations and offset apprehension about a monetary policy meeting under way at the Federal Reserve.
 Optimism about the technology sector may roll into today's session after the Oracle Corporation, the maker of business software, reported earnings that beat Wall Street expectations, sending its shares higher after the market close.
Another software maker, Adobe Systems, also reported slightly higher-than-expected results. And shares of Affiliated Computer Services shot up nearly 17 percent after the company received a $5.9 billion buyout bid. 
 ''The fact is, there's so many companies with such low leverage on their balance sheets. In aggregate, so many corporate balance sheets are in such good shape,'' said Lincoln Anderson, managing director and chief investment officer at LPL Financial Services in Boston. ''That's what's driving the buyouts and takeovers.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 61.93 points, or 0.51 percent, at 12,288.10. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 8.88 points, or 0.63 percent, at 1,410.94. The Nasdaq Composite Index was up 13.80 points, or 0.58 percent, at 2,408.21.
 Trading was moderate on the New York exchange, with about 1.45 billion shares changing hands, below last year's estimated daily average of 1.84 billion, while on Nasdaq, about 1.71 billion shares traded, below last year's daily average of 2.02 billion.
 Oracle shares were up as much as 2.85 percent to $18.05 in after-hours trading. During the regular session, the stock added 2.2 percent as shares rose 37 cents to 17.55. Adobe shares climbed 3.7 percent to $42.25 after the closing bell; it rose 50 cents to $40.74 during Nasdaq trading.
 Shares of Palm, the hand-held computer and cellphone maker, rose on reports that the company may be close to a $2 billion buyout deal, with the mobile phone makers Nokia and Motorola believed to be among the bidders.
 Palm shares ended up 3.5 percent at $18.77, while Motorola shares were up 2.9 percent at $18.82.
 In the subprime mortgage market, one lender, the Accredited Home Lenders Holding Company, secured financing that should help to quell fears that turmoil in the industry that lends to home buyers with sketchy credit would spawn wider trouble for the economy.
 Accredited Home shares surged 20.3 percent to $10.77. 
 In Washington, the Federal Reserve's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee began its two-day meeting on Tuesday. The Fed was expected to hold its benchmark federal funds rate steady at 5.25 percent, but investors will focus on its statement on the outlook for the economy and future interest rate policy expected today.
 Shares of Affiliated Computer rose 16.9 percent to $59.95 after its founder, Darwin Deason, and the investment fund Cerberus Capital Management offered to buy the computer services company.
 On the downside, shares of the oil field services company Halliburton and those of its rivals declined after the company said its first-quarter profit would not meet Wall Street estimates because of decreased drilling completion in Canada and the northern United States.
 Halliburton stock was down 5.9 percent at $30.50. At rival companies, BJ Services declined 2.7 percent to $26.62 and Weatherford International fell 1.8 percent to $44.36.
 In economic news, a government report showed a stronger-than-expected pace of home construction in February, easing concerns about the impact of subprime mortgage troubles on housing.
 In the Treasury market, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 4/32, to 100 19/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, declined to 4.55 percent, from 4.56 percent. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction for four-week Treasury bills:(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price: 99.600High Rate: 5.140Coupon Yield: 5.247Low Rate: 5.110Median Rate: 5.130Total applied for: $77,394,816Accepted: $28,101,816Noncompetitive: $482,929The four-week bills mature April 19, 2007.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); ACCREDITATION (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (61%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (57%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (85%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (84%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (69%); ACCREDITED HOME LENDERS HOLDING CO (62%); AFFILIATED COMPUTER SERVICES INC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (84%); ADB (FRA) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



438 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Tortillas Like Mama's, But This Is No Bodega

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

DATELINE: AURORA, Colo. 

 BODY:
YOU'RE not going to find Swanson frozen dinners at Rancho Liborio, a shiny new 49,000-square-foot supermarket in this Denver suburb. But you will find the fried plantains called maduros and giant Peruvian kernels of corn. 
 In the produce section, a dollar will buy you three avocados. The tilapia are sold live. Stacks of fresh tortillas, made from 600 pounds of corn ground in the store daily, are always warm. And maybe, if the local political winds shift, shoppers might one day be able to buy a chicken that was slaughtered and plucked on site a few hours earlier.
The store's slogan pretty much says it all: ''Si es de alla lo tenemos aqui.'' Translated, ''If it's from there, we have it here.''
 This upscale store is a new concept for the Cuban family that started the small Liborio chain in Los Angeles in 1966. The idea is to sell food to an increasingly affluent pool of Hispanic grocery shoppers as well as the growing segment of people who want their supermarkets filled with fresher, local and more authentic food. 
 With its bright, wide aisles, agua fresca bar and an expansive selection of hot food like carnitas and even pizza, Rancho Liborio wants to be the go-to store for second- and third-generation shoppers who are attracted to markets like Whole Foods and Trader Joe's, but want to cook and shop in a store that feels like home.
 ''We've gone to all the other markets in the area, but this is the place where the tortillas are the closest to his mother's,'' said Deeanna Zavala, who was shopping on a recent Saturday with her husband, Guellermo. ''And we can still get everything else we need.'' 
 Rancho Liborio is not the only grocery chain hungry for more affluent shoppers whose families have roots in Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America. The 65-store Minyard chain in the Dallas-Fort Worth area is pumping money into its Latino-theme Carnival stores. In Northern California the Super Mercado Mexico chain, based in San Jose, has started buying old Albertsons stores. Publix, one of the biggest grocery chains in the country, is experimenting with Publix Sabor stores in Florida.
 Winn-Dixie, which runs 521 stores in the South, started a Hispanic neighborhood merchandising program at 103 stores in Miami and Orlando, Fla. The hope is that store-sponsored dominoes tournaments, Spanish-speaking employees and a product mix fine-tuned to each neighborhood will help distance the chain from a recent bankruptcy. One offering is La Completa, a line of hot meals featuring combinations like pork, rice and yuca to go.
 ''It appears that the Hispanic community is just as pressed for time as anyone else,'' said Jim Corrado, senior director of neighborhood merchandising for Publix. 
 In 2007 Hispanics are expected to become the minority group with the most spending power in the United States, displacing African-Americans, according to a report by the Selig Center for Economic Growth at the University of Georgia. 
 For decades small markets and bodega-style stores in cities like Los Angeles, Dallas and New York catered to new immigrants looking for lower prices. But larger, more traditional chains are now trying to capture shoppers in those cities, as well as in places like Denver, Atlanta and Minneapolis. 
 They are finding that it takes more than a few Mexican products mixed in among the ranch dressing and Fruity Pebbles to attract them.
 ''If you add jalapenos to the produce department, it doesn't become a Hispanic store,'' said Jack Rosenthal, the food service supervisor for the two Rancho Liborio stores in the Denver area. Mr. Rosenthal, who was born in Peru, speaks English, Spanish and German fluently.
 Although there is no one typical Hispanic shopper, some generalizations are driving the design of the new Latino-theme stores. Many have wider aisles because, research shows, grocery shopping is often a family outing. Hispanic families tend to be larger, and more people cook from scratch, so produce and meat departments tend to be bigger and better stocked. And loyalty to brands from the home country is strong. At Rancho Liborio, Tide is almost an afterthought. Mexican brands like Ariel dominate the shelves. 
 But the generalizations end there. The term Hispanic applies to people from many countries, each with particular preferences for things like fruit, meat, spices, bread and beans. Tastes can change from city to city, even neighborhood to neighborhood.
 A walk through the dried-bean aisle at Rancho Liborio in a case in point. There are pintos, both the larger speckled brown ones preferred by Mexicans and the smaller, lighter-colored ones used in Peru. Pink beans appeal to Puerto Ricans, and black beans to Cubans, Guatemalans and Brazilians. 
 Even individual households are multicultural, which adds to the challenge of finding the right mix of products in an ever-fusing Hispanic food culture.
 ''In many households you have an individual whose grandparents are Hispanic but from four different countries,'' said Joseph Perez, a senior vice president at Goya Foods. The company, which has headquarters in Secaucus, N.J., is the largest Hispanic-owned food company in the country.
 Attracting Hispanic shoppers is a delicate business, said Juan Guillermo Tornoe, who runs Hispanic Trending, a market research company in Austin, Tex. Buyers for big chains will often go to Hispanic food trade shows, order everything in sight and then wonder why their efforts to market to Latinos fail.
 ''Well, what are you buying?'' he said. ''Are you buying hot sauce and expecting to sell it to Cubans?''
 The Rancho Liborio bakery is a study in cross-cultural merchandising. The Cuban bread has to have the right delicate crust and texture for dipping in cafe con leche. The compact Mexican loaves called bolillos (four for $1) are sold near Salvadoran pastries called peperechas, layered with pineapple. The tres leches cake is a hit with almost everyone, including African-American shoppers from the area.
 Customers know the difference, Mr. Rosenthal said. 
 ''If it doesn't taste right, they'll tell you,'' he said. That's why Rancho Liborio hired Eulalia Ventura from El Salvador to make as many as 200 pupusas a day, by hand. The pupusas are stuffed with a mixture of cheese and the herb loroco, and sometimes with pork cracklings and beans, then grilled until the interior bubbles. 
 Monica Mejia, a student at Metropolitan State College of Denver, drove 45 minutes on a recent Saturday with her mother, Sara Mejia, in part for the pupusas. The family emigrated from San Salvador six years ago, and find themselves going to Rancho Liborio as often as they can.
 ''It's really nice here because my mother can get the brands she grew up with,'' Ms. Mejia said.
 Generational differences that arise among Hispanic shoppers further complicate things for grocers. Ms. Mejia doesn't mind spending $2.29 for a pupusa, but to her mother that seems expensive.
 Newer immigrants are more likely to be bargain hunters, especially in the competitive Los Angeles market, said Bob Rosenthal, Jack's brother and the director of food service and bakery for all eight Liborio stores in Southern California, Las Vegas and Colorado. ''But as a culture begins to progress in society,'' he said, ''the younger people want the food that reminds them of Abuelita'' -- Grandma -- ''and they don't care if it costs more.''
 In the meat section at Rancho Liborio, nary a T-bone is to be found. Most people from Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America cook with thinner cuts, so the 10 varieties of beef are stacked like crepes, separated by pink paper. The chicken section is stocked with both the smaller inexpensive yellow-skinned chickens that Jack Rosenthal said are popular with recent immigrants and the plumper white-skinned birds more popular with people who were born here. 
 When the chain started its expansion into Colorado, the owners had hoped a polleria would be the star attraction. Live chickens would be shipped in every morning, then slaughtered and processed by noon. But the polleria, which has met the federal Agriculture Department's guidelines, sits unused at the Commerce City store, the first in the chain to open in Colorado, because the idea of chicken slaughtering didn't go over with some city officials and residents.
 ''You'd think we were planning to kill people,'' Jack Rosenthal said. 
 The company ran into a similar problem when it began plans to open a store with a polleria in Greeley, Colo. Both chicken slaughtering and the chain's bilingual signs tapped a vein of anti-Latino sentiment. The public outcry grew so intense that the company scratched the polleria. The local newspaper, The Tribune, ran an editorial in July welcoming the market and condemning what the editorial board viewed as a vilification of Mexican immigrants.
 ''If this were any other market, people would welcome it with open arms, and maybe wander through the aisles to find some new foods to try at the dinner table,'' the editorialist wrote.
 And in fact the Liborio markets are attracting white, black and Hispanic customers. When it comes down to it, a grocery shopper is a grocery shopper.
 ''It's not so much the cultural stuff,'' said Marie Lopez, a dental hygienist in the Denver area. ''Everything here is fresh, and the prices are good. That's really what I'm looking for.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about Hispanic groceries misspelled the surname of a senior director of neighborhood marketing for one supermarket chain. He is Jim Carrado, not Corrado. The article also misidentified Mr. Carrado's employer. He works for Winn-Dixie, not Publix.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SO FRESH -- Alicia Maldonado serving at a Rancho Liborio in Aurora, Colo. (Photo by Jamie Schwaberow for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 STUFF, GRILL, REPEAT -- Eulalia Ventura, above, makes Salvadoran pupusas, pastries filled with cheese, meat or beans, at Rancho Liborio in Aurora, Colo. The store, left, has a fresh juice bar and prepared foods that appeal to Hispanic shoppers from many countries. (Photographs by Jamie Schwaberow for The New York Times)(pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (95%); FROZEN FOODS (78%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); FAMILY (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%) Food; Hispanic-Americans; Supermarkets; Food

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Rancho Liborio (Aurora, Colo, Supermarket); Whole Foods Market Inc; Trader Joe's Co Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (54%)

PERSON: Kim Severson

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (78%); MIAMI, FL, USA (76%); DALLAS, TX, USA (72%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%) COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (76%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) Aurora (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



439 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Taking Wine Seriously Is a Prerequisite

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

 BODY:
IS Varietal an important restaurant, worthy of your rapt attention and utmost respect? Can't you tell?
 Behold its colors -- or lack of them. It's a minimalist wonderland of white and more white, as if only a canvas this pristine could do justice to the kitchen's brushstrokes.
Learn its elevated argot. What servers promote at the start of dinner isn't just Champagne. It's ''grower Champagne,'' identified that way on a special matte card, which conveys the odd impression that sparkling wine is a crop, like soybeans. The phrase in fact refers to small producers making wines from their own grapes, and if you read the text accompanying the selection of a half dozen glasses, you'll learn that.
 You won't get a cheat sheet for the dessert menu, a province of aggressive experimentation and eccentric, highfalutin name tags. (''Celery root abstract,'' anyone?) 
 A dessert called ''wolfberry'' has, among its listed ingredients, ketjap manis, a syrupy Indonesian condiment with salty as well as sweet notes. A dessert called ''chocolate gel'' includes mastic, the resin of the mastic tree, an evergreen related to the pistachio tree.
 Varietal isn't just a restaurant. It's an epicurean Advanced Placement exam, with a dollop of Oscar acceptance speech. In a bottom corner of the menu is a list of nearly a dozen farms, preceded by the declaration that the restaurant ''would like to thank the following local suppliers.'' And, of course, the Academy.
 At its best Varietal is also a realm of alluring, rewarding surprises where the committed culinary adventurer can find dishes that aren't just slightly altered carbon copies of what's on plates everywhere else.
 I'd bet a lot of money that tuna tartare will never gain a foothold here. I'd bet my life that a molten chocolate cake will never get within 100 feet of Jordan Kahn, the young, gonzo pastry chef, recipient of the kind of intense attention that anyone pressing Campari, rooibos and beets into the service of a ''meditation in purple'' predictably attracts. 
 But like some other restaurants in the grip of a self-consciousness this profound, Varietal can become so entranced with the unusual ingredients it's deploying, the unconventional ideas it's hatching and the uncommon pose it's striking that it seems not to pause and ponder the off-kilter or underwhelming results.
 The lineup of deployers and hatchers is a serious one. Although Mr. Kahn is just 23, he has already worked at the French Laundry in the Napa Valley and Alinea in Chicago. The restaurant's executive chef, Ed Witt, has worked at Daniel and, most recently, Il Buco.
 They've been united at Varietal by its owner, Greggory J. Hockenberry, who not only brings a passion for wine to the picture but also makes that passion the focal point, as the name of the restaurant and that special card of ''grower Champagne'' make clear.
 There are plenty of other clues. Upside-down wineglasses hang from the center of the sleek dining room's ceiling, where a few photographs of glistening grapes adorn mostly blank walls. Scores of wines are available by the glass, and three-wine tasting flights permit comparisons of Spanish reds or chardonnays from different countries.
 A large lounge in front and a long bar nearby provide comfortable perches for tasting expeditions, which can be complemented with small plates -- fingerling potatoes with paddlefish caviar; lamb terrine with lotus crisps -- from a special menu. And those expeditions are facilitated by servers who know the inventory and how to talk about it. 
 But while drinking at Varietal is a delight, eating is a more complicated proposition -- exciting if you hit the best dishes, exasperating if you don't.
 One of my favorite appetizers was a sort of venison carpaccio with a hot blast of Sichuan peppercorns and a cool, tangy sheep's milk yogurt that served as an ideal counterpoint. Another was a dual treatment of sea scallops, some uncooked and studded with pomegranate seeds, some coated with cumin, seared and placed on top of a pumpkin puree.
 While submitting seafood to contrasting preparations isn't all that common around town, plumbing the multiple personalities of pork is. In this regard Varietal played the conformist, presenting roasted loin with braised belly, albeit with a nonconformist twist. Tobacco was used in the braising, imparting a quality for which the adjective smoky is not only inevitable but apt.
 I liked that pork dish. And I loved a grilled beef tenderloin that appeared on a six-course tasting menu, reasonably priced at $75. Although tenderloin isn't the most flavorful cut, it didn't need to be, because it had been marinated in soy sauce and seasoned with sesame oil, minced Thai chili peppers and diced pear. A lot of heat, a little sweetness, a nutty overlay -- this dish had it all.
 Mr. Witt is fond of rounding out a dish with an extra, unexpected element or two, like the white chocolate and parsnip puree that accompanied another beef entree. But some dishes don't wind up tasting as interesting as they sound.
 For one appetizer, he bathed prawns in a chamomile consomme with more alliteration than appeal. Another appetizer rode invention to an unsavory destination. What happens when you combine beets, agrumato oil (a mingling of lemon and olive) and mullet bottarga? If the results at Varietal were any indication, you get a flavor that brings to mind laundry detergent.
 At times it seemed that Varietal's kitchen lavished so much attention on the swishes just inside the perimeter of a plate that it neglected the main player in the center. While I was tickled by a phalanx of candied walnuts alongside a roasted fillet of wild striped bass, I would have traded it for a more carefully cooked, moister piece of fish.
 And then there are those desserts, which don't so much eschew convention as pummel and shatter it -- literally, and often pointlessly. None of Mr. Kahn's creations resemble, say, a tidy layered cake or a round little tart. Some of them look like what would happen if you took a mallet to a tidy layered cake or a round little tart and let the shards and crumbs scatter where they may. Jackson Pollock would have been pleased.
 Mr. Kahn makes ice cream infused with toasted cherry wood chips. He pairs an eggplant puree, which includes fish sauce and Thai chili, with grape-flavored chips of what look like glass. He makes mushroom caramels. The caramel registers right away, but the mushroom flavor sticks around much longer.
 It will definitely get your attention. Your affection is another matter.VARIETAL* 
 [rating: one star]38 West 25th Street; (212) 633-1800.ATMOSPHERE -- A front lounge and back dining room united by a sleek, white, minimalist look.SOUND LEVEL -- Moderate.RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Raw and cumin-seared scallops; venison with Sichuan peppercorns and yogurt; roasted pork loin with braised belly; beef tenderloin with sesame oil; wolfberry dessert.WINE LIST -- A serious, imaginative and varied selection, with many affordably priced bottles; scores of wines by the glass, priced less economically; and three-wine tasting flights served with name tags attached to each glass.PRICE RANGE -- Appetizers, $12 to $18. Entrees, $24 to $36. Desserts, $12 to $14. Six-course tasting menu, $75. Four-course dessert tasting, $35.HOURS -- Dinner from 5:30 to 11 p.m. Monday through Saturday; small plates in lounge from 5 to 11 p.m. Sunday, beginning April 1. RESERVATIONS -- For prime dinner times, call at least two weeks in advance.CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Entrance, restaurant and accessible restroom all on street level.WHAT THE STARS MEAN -- Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. PAST REVIEWS from The Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics: 
 nytimes.com/dining

GRAPHIC: Photo: ENAMORED OF THE GRAPE -- At Varietal on West 25th Street, the wine list is extensive and photographs of grapes decorate the white walls. (Photo by Robert Presutti for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (78%) Restaurants; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Varietal (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Frank Bruni

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



440 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Russia, Iran and the Bottom Line

 BODY:
Let's hear it for the profit motive. Russia has apparently decided that it can do even better financially if it starts pressuring its longtime client Iran to curtail its nuclear appetites. 
 Elaine Sciolino reported in The Times yesterday that Moscow told Tehran privately that it will not deliver nuclear fuel for Iran's Russian-built Bushehr power plant unless Iran stops enriching uranium. There were also reports that Moscow was pulling experts from the nearly finished reactor site. The pressure is welcome and long overdue, considering that the Security Council ordered Iran to suspend enrichment by the end of last August.
As for why Moscow -- which has been working since before August to deflect any serious sanctions against Iran -- may be doing the right thing, that is something of a puzzle. Russia's leaders may have finally figured out that a nuclear-armed Iran poses a genuine danger. But we suspect profits may have brought that threat into sharper focus. 
 Russia has accused Iran of falling behind on payments for the Bushehr project, which Tehran hotly denies. Meanwhile, Russia is very eager to become a leader in the global business of nuclear fuel production and spent fuel storage. Being the chief protector and enabler of Iran's nuclear efforts is not the best advertising for such an enterprise. Moscow will have another chance to put its mouth where its money is in coming days when the Security Council votes on another series of sanctions against Iran. 
 The Bush administration also deserves credit if it helped Moscow to see where its larger interests lie. We are far less enthusiastic about recent threats -- from Capitol Hill and some in the administration -- to impose unilateral sanctions on foreign energy companies that do business with Iran. The administration needs all the friends it can get, and this is another case where quiet persuasion can go a lot further than bludgeoning. 
 The administration might also draw a lesson from Russia's improved behavior and consider coupling a new round of sanctions on Iran with more persuasive incentives. It should start by dropping fantasies of regime change and pledge to re-establish diplomatic and economic ties if Iran abandons its nuclear ambitions. We know the default position is more threats. But sometimes the prospect of profit -- and not just loss -- works better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



441 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: When Workers Lose Their Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Protecting Wages in a Global Economy'' (editorial, March 18): 
 It is important to understand that those who support updating the American worker safety net through the existing wage insurance program do not believe that this should be the only or even the first priority in dealing with job loss.
Unemployment insurance must be modernized and improved to meet the current labor market challenges. 
 We must do a far better job educating and training workers and increasing our country's investment in research to create the jobs of tomorrow. We must also pursue trade agreements that are fair and don't take American workers for granted.
 A more substantial wage insurance program, independent of unemployment insurance, will complement it, not replace it, and is one element of a comprehensive global jobs strategy. 
 Middle-class families are facing many economic anxieties, and wage insurance can help address some of those concerns. 
 Training is important, but if you are a middle-class worker who is forced to take a new job at a lower wage, an insurance program to temporarily replace part of the lost wages can be a real helping hand. 
 There are many tools to help those who are caught in the maw of technological change and globalization: one should not be made the enemy of the other.(Senator) Charles E. Schumer(Rep.) Jim McDermottWashington, March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAMILY (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%) Labor

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (68%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Jim (Rep) Mcdermott

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



442 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Raising Animals for Food

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I appreciate Nicolette Hahn Niman's efforts in raising awareness about the conditions in which pigs are raised (''Pig Out,'' Op-Ed, March 14), but I was struck by her comment that it is incumbent on us to ensure that animals have decent lives because we ask them to make the ultimate sacrifice for us. This doesn't ring true, suggesting as it does that we actually ask the animals to make a sacrifice for our sake. 
What we are doing is raising and then killing animals so that we can eat them. They don't volunteer. 
 If we're going to raise farm animals and then kill them to eat them, we should say so. Catherine di LorenzoWoodbine, Ga., March 14, 2007To the Editor: 
 Contrary to the assertions in Nicolette Hahn Niman's attack on modern pork production, America's 67,000 pork producers treat their animals humanely. They do so because it's the moral and ethical thing to do, and it's in their best economic interest. 
 For many producers, treating pigs humanely means raising them in climate-controlled facilities; safeguarding them from biosecurity hazards and the threat of diseases; placing sows in crates to stop them from fighting with one another and protect their piglets from being crushed; to ensure that they get the feed and water needed; and to better monitor their health. 
 According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, management and husbandry are more important for ensuring the health and well-being of pigs. 
 And while producers do use antibiotics to keep their pigs healthy, drugs are F.D.A.-approved and used judiciously, and administered responsibly under the direction of a veterinarian. Jill AppellPres., Natl. Pork Producers CouncilAltona, Ill., March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PORK (90%); ANIMALS (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (70%); ANIMAL WELFARE (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Livestock; Cruelty to Animals; Pigs

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL (59%); AMERICAN VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%) National Pork Producers Council

PERSON: Catherine Di Lorenzo; Jill Appell; Nicolette Hahn Niman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



443 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Aid to Palestinians Rose in '06 Despite International Embargo

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 20 

 BODY:
Despite the international embargo on aid to the Palestinian Authority since Hamas came to power a year ago, significantly more aid was delivered to the Palestinians in 2006 than in 2005, according to official figures from the United Nations, United States, European Union and International Monetary Fund.
 Instead of going to the Palestinian Authority, much of the money was given directly to individuals or through independent agencies like the World Food Program.
The International Monetary Fund and the United Nations say the Palestinians received $1.2 billion in aid and budgetary support in 2006, about $300 per capita, compared with $1 billion in 2005.
 While the United States and the European Union have led the boycott, they, too, provided more aid to the Palestinians in 2006 than 2005. Washington increased its aid to $468 million in 2006, from $400 million in 2005. 
 The European Union and its member states alone are subsidizing one million people in the West Bank and Gaza, a quarter of the population, as part of their effort to avoid creating a catastrophe from the embargo.
 Asked if the European Union could spend any more money on the Palestinians if it recognized the new Palestinian government than it does now, a senior European diplomat laughed and said, ''We'd probably spend less.''
 One side effect of the redirected aid, some officials said, is that while starvation has been avoided, institutions are withering and a culture of dependence is expanding.
 In 2007, the United Nations began a humanitarian appeal for the Palestinians of more than $450 million, twice the 2006 appeal, the third largest United Nations request, after Sudan and Congo, ahead of 18 other disasters.
 ''These numbers are quite stunning,'' said Alexander Costy, head of coordination for Alvaro de Soto, the United Nations special Middle East envoy, ''given the relatively small size of the population of the Palestinian territory.''
 He added: ''What we do know for sure is that Palestinians, and their economy and society, are becoming increasingly dependent on humanitarian handouts, and this dependency is growing fast. For a state in the making, I think this was a step backwards in 2006 and a cause for alarm.''
 The International Monetary Fund and the United Nations estimate that direct budgetary support to the Palestinian Authority in 2006 was about $740 million, more than double the $350 million in 2004 and 2005. 
 But Salam Fayyad, the finance minister in the new Palestinian unity government, thinks the Palestinians received at least 250 percent more than that in direct support when cash from Iran and Arab nations is counted, as well as the amount smuggled in by Hamas officials after trips abroad.
 ''I say the minimum for direct budgetary support was $880 million in 2006 compared to about $350 million the year before,'' Mr. Fayyad said. He estimates total aid in 2006 was closer to $1.35 billion.
 The United States, Europe and Israel imposed their boycott because Hamas supports terrorism and refuses to recognize Israel, renounce violence or honor existing Palestinian-Israeli agreements. The unstated aim has been to build enough disaffection among Palestinians that they would drive Hamas from power and replace it with Fatah. 
 Mr. Fayyad, who is from Fatah, says the international embargo should be lifted for the new unity government that includes non-Hamas ministers like him, because much of the money coming in cannot be traced and some is surely being stolen or misappropriated.
 Mr. Fayyad, a former official with the International Monetary Fund, is considered to be credible by the United States and the European Union. He met Tuesday with the American consul here, Jacob Walles.
 The larger amounts of aid Western countries poured into the Palestinian territories in recent months were aimed at making up for the inability of the Palestinian Authority to pay salaries. To a large degree, beginning in the summer of 2006, the European Union and Arab countries paid the salaries instead.
 By the last quarter of 2006, full salaries were again being paid to Palestinian Authority employees, who, over the year, received about 55 percent of their salaries.
 Those salaries were paid despite Israel's decision -- beginning in March 2006, when Hamas took office -- to withhold from the Palestinian Authority some $50 million a month it collects for the Palestinians in duties and taxes, after it deducts the cost of electricity and water that it supplies to the West Bank and Gaza.
 While Israel recently handed over $100 million of the sum as a humanitarian gesture to the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah, Israeli officials say that as of today, they are holding back $475 million in money belonging to the Palestinians, a big hole in the normal Palestinian budget.
 European and American officials also cited the difficulties in Gaza caused by Israeli security restrictions on Palestinian imports and exports as another reason for the increased aid. Their contributions were to United Nations agencies that deal with the Palestinians, like the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, the World Food Program and various health agencies, to nongovernmental agencies and, in the case of the European Union, large cash payments directly to employees of the Palestinian Authority.
 The United States provides more money to the United Nations refugee agency than any other country. Congress authorized $400 million in aid to the Palestinians in fiscal year 2005, including its aid to United Nations agencies, said Micaela Schweitzer-Bluhm, a spokeswoman for the American Consulate in Jerusalem which deals with the Palestinians. In fiscal year 2006, she said, $468 million was authorized. 
 The European Union, moved by the plight of Palestinians, set up a mechanism to pay partial salaries directly to nonsecurity employees of the Palestinian Authority and to help pay fuel bills, either to Israeli fuel companies or through the office of Mr. Abbas of Fatah.
 In 2005, according to Emma Udwin, spokeswoman for the European Commission, the European Union and its individual states contributed about $711 million to the Palestinians, not including contributions through United Nations agencies.
 In 2006, Ms. Udwin said, the European Union and its states spent $916 million on the Palestinians, not including United Nations contributions.
 The amount of aid has increased, but the structure of the aid has changed: aid that had gone to economic development has been diverted to simply keeping people fed and sheltered. In 2005, 16 percent of European aid was classified as humanitarian; in 2006, 56 percent was.
 The point, Ms. Udwin said, was to isolate the Hamas-run authority, ''but not to punish individual Palestinians.''
 But rather than pressuring Hamas, the European aid is now paying 77,000 Palestinian households, or 88 percent of the salaried nonsecurity personnel of the Palestinian Authority, a subsidy to nearly 470,000 people, plus another 73,000 low-income households who are considered to have special needs. 
 Arab countries provided an estimated $400 million in 2006, the International Monetary Fund says.
 Despite all the aid, the economy, hampered by security restrictions put on Palestinian travel and exports and fierce Palestinian infighting between Hamas and Fatah, continued to show signs of collapse. The Palestinian gross domestic product dropped by 6.6 percent in 2006, poverty rose by 30 percent and unemployment was over 30 percent. The proportion of those who would be unable to feed themselves without aid reached 49 percent of Gaza's population, and internal violence among Palestinians caused ten times the number of deaths and injuries as in 2005. 
 Since 1999, before the second intifada caused Israel, in the name of protecting its citizens, to reinvade the West Bank and set up various security restrictions, the Palestinian gross domestic product per capita has dropped 40 percent in real terms, according to the International Monetary Fund -- a severe depression. So even external aid of $1.2 billion or more doesn't offset the loss of what would have been another $2 billion in Palestinian Authority income.
 In general, the Palestinians take in about $15 million to $20 million in taxes a month, Mr. Fayyad said, plus the $50 million or so from Israel. But the budget now is at least $170 million to $175 million a month, with a bill for wages and pensions alone of $115 million a month. 
 The Palestinian Authority's self-generated income, including the amount Israel collects but is not now delivering, is only about 60 percent of the monthly wage bill alone, and only about 40 percent of the monthly budget. So the Authority needs between $1.2 and $1.3 billion in foreign aid every year now just to break even -- about what Palestinians, if not the Authority itself, got in 2006.
 Numerous aid officials think that the current aid structure for the Palestinians is highly inefficient and undesirable since it is not going to development or training but is simply being consumed by one of the most aid-dependent populations in the world.
 A United Nations official who asked for anonymity in order to speak frankly, said ''aid is going down the sink hole,'' keeping people alive rather than creating jobs or helping them to create economic opportunities. 
 Alvaro de Soto, the United Nations special envoy, says that because so much aid has been redirected to humanitarian purposes, development aid has dried up. ''And by not engaging with government bodies that actually run Palestinian affairs, the international community has undercut its ability to promote the reform goals it advocates, to ensure that the Palestinian administration runs efficiently,'' he said in an interview.
 ''There is a real fear that Palestinian institutions that the international donor community has toiled to build and beef up over the years are being gradually undone,'' he said. ''This has grave political consequences, since these institutions are meant to be the foundation on which, one day, a Palestinian state will be built.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about an increase in aid to the Palestinian Authority in 2006 despite an international embargo imposed after the Islamic militant group Hamas came to power misstated the political affiliation of Salam Fayyad, the finance minister in the new Palestinian unity government. He belongs to the Third Way, a party he started in 2006; he is no longer a member of Fatah, the political organization that is a Hamas rival. Also, a caption with the article misstated the type of aid that Mr. Fayyad said had more than doubled in 2006 compared with 2005. It was money to support the Palestinian Authority's budget -- not the total amount of aid, including humanitarian, for Palestinians.

GRAPHIC: Photos: European food aid is delivered to Palestinians in Hebron. Europe alone is subsidizing a million people, a quarter of the Palestinian population. (Photo by Nayef Hashlamoun/Reuters)
 Finance Minister Salam Fayyad estimates that the Palestinian Authority received more than twice the amount of aid in 2006 than in 2005. (Photo by Mohammed Salem/Reuters)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); HAMAS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STARVATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EMBEZZLEMENT (72%) Palestinians; Foreign Aid ; Embezzlement; Economic Conditions and Trends; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); HAMAS (91%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (83%) United Nations; International Monetary Fund; Hamas; United Nations World Food Program; European Union; Costy, Alexander

PERSON: Salam (Min) Fayyad; Steven Erlanger

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Israel; Israel; Europe; Israel

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



444 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Opposition In Zimbabwe Mounts, Says U.S. Diplomat

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, March 20 

 BODY:
The American ambassador to Zimbabwe said Tuesday that opposition to President Robert G. Mugabe had reached a tipping point because the people no longer feared the government and believed that they had nothing left to lose.
 Zimbabwe's government and ruling party are in disarray and can no longer govern effectively, Ambassador Christopher Dell said in an interview. Growing numbers within the government and the ruling party, known as ZANU-PF, also want Mr. Mugabe to step down, he said.
Mr. Dell emphasized that he was not advocating or predicting a violent overthrow of the government, but noted that there was disaffection within the military and a split in the security forces. The economy is in free fall and the people believe that the government is taking away their last hope, he said. 
 ''The key new element in the equation that has become obvious over the past 10 to 12 days is the new spirit of resistance -- some would say defiance -- on the part of the people,'' the ambassador said.
 ''The people have lost their willingness to go on; they are losing their fear,'' he added. ''They believe they have nothing left to lose.''
 Mr. Mugabe's government has come under increasing international criticism for its treatment of the opposition, with activists contending that the police have disrupted their gatherings and beaten their leaders. The opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was among those assaulted on March 11, when the police broke up what his supporters said was a prayer meeting.
 The Movement for Democratic Change, led by Mr. Tsvangirai, reported new abuses on Tuesday, saying 35 of its supporters were hospitalized from beatings by ruling party youths and state agents patrolling townships in unmarked vehicles.
 ''We have urged other African governments to speak out more strongly, and some of them have,'' Mr. Dell said. ''The one thing you will notice is none of them are speaking up in Mugabe's defense anymore. There is a kind of embarrassed silence in the region now.''
 South Africa issued its strongest criticism of Zimbabwe to date on Tuesday, but said it would stick to its policy of quiet diplomacy because open criticism had yielded no results.
 ''The beating and violence against any citizens of Zimbabwe is obviously unacceptable to us as a government,'' said Themba Maseko, a South African government spokesman.
 In Zimbabwe, Mr. Tsvangirai met with South Africa's ambassador on Tuesday to protest the silence of African leaders.
 Mr. Tsvangirai said the silence made a ''complete mockery'' of South Africa's abolition of apartheid and its transition to democracy, the opposition said in a statement.
 President Levy Mwanawasa of Zambia, who will take over the presidency of the 13-nation Southern African Development Community in August, said Tuesday that he hoped the bloc would develop a common stance on the crisis in the coming days.
 Mr. Dell said the violence directed against Zimbabweans by the government was causing a split in the security forces, adding that rank-and-file police officers were increasingly reluctant to carry out such attacks.
 He said the police themselves were telling leaders of the opposition who were arrested and beaten while in custody that the attacks had been carried out by Mr. Mugabe's secret police and the Green Bombers, the ruling party's militant youth militia.
 ''Police are trying to distance themselves from the repression,'' Mr. Dell said. ''Police officers feel insecure. We are told some are afraid to wear their uniforms back and forth to work.'' He noted that most police officers lived in the poor, high-density suburbs of Harare, the capital, and were afraid of reprisals from their neighbors.
 Mr. Mugabe, he said, has always ruled with a combination of repression and patronage. But with a collapsing economy, he can no longer provide adequate patronage. Mr. Dell said a regular police officer made only about $20 a month and is also suffering from the economic woes.
 In the past eight weeks, the Zimbabwe dollar has fallen to 20,000 from 5,000 to the American dollar on the black market, he said.
 Tensions within ZANU-PF are rising, Mr. Dell added, largely because of the impending succession question. Mr. Mugabe, 83, has indicated that he might run for another term next year, but many in the party want him to step down now, and there is fighting over who will succeed him, Mr. Dell said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%) United States International Relations

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (79%) Robert (Pres) Mugabe; Christopher (Amb) Dell

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%); ZAMBIA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%) Zimbabwe

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



445 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Sets Benefits in Universal Health Care Plan

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK; Katie Zezima contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BOSTON, March 20 

 BODY:
Massachusetts took a major step toward enacting its near-universal health care overhaul, with the board that oversees the plan voting on Tuesday to require insurers to provide certain minimum benefits, including coverage of prescription drugs.
 The decision, subject to final approval in June, would make Massachusetts the first state to establish standards that apply to every resident and every health insurer.
 ''It's setting the definition of what is acceptable health care coverage, which is really unique in America,'' said Stuart H. Altman, a professor of health economics at Brandeis University. ''What you're doing is not only affecting what the uninsured can get. You indirectly are affecting what is considered to be acceptable coverage for everybody.'' 
 The requirements were worked out over several months and include several compromises, balancing the interests of businesses, insurers and health care advocates.
 For example, the board, called the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority, agreed to phase in some of its requirements, giving residents and employers an extra 18 months to buy health plans that meet all the new criteria. While residents will still need to have some form of insurance starting in July, they will have until January 2009 to get all the required coverage.
 ''This is another giant step forward,'' Jon Kingsdale, the executive director of the authority, said at the meeting. Later, he said, ''basically we have to be thinking about January '09. It's not a perfect solution, but it's an acceptable solution.''
 The goal of the health insurance law, passed in April 2006, was to make sure that most of the state's uninsured residents, about 515,00 people, would be covered. Those who fail to get insurance would face penalties that could include the loss of a personal income tax deduction.
 About 47,000 of those people fall below the federal poverty line and are eligible for Medicaid. An estimated 150,000 with incomes at 100 percent to 300 percent of the poverty line will get a state-subsidized rate but will still have to pay something, typically $18 to $170 a month.
 The rest will be required to buy insurance that meets standards set by the authority, and the challenge has been to make those plans affordable while ensuring enough coverage. 
 Earlier this month, the authority approved plans from seven insurers with premiums ranging from $175 to $288 a month and deductibles ranging from nothing to $2,000 a year. 
 Among the compromises the board made Tuesday was allowing insurance plans to continue to place caps on lifetime coverage, something that advocates for universal coverage had been pushing to eliminate.
 The authority also voted to set a maximum deductible for basic health plans of $2,000 per individual per year, and a maximum out-of-pocket cost of $5,000 if providers within an insurer's network are used.
 Prescription drugs generated some of the most impassioned discussion Tuesday.
 Richard Lord, a member of the authority board and president of Associated Industries of Massachusetts, which represents 7,500 employers, appealed to the board not to require drug coverage.
 ''No other state does this,'' Mr. Lord said. ''To prescribe it as a requirement I just think is going beyond what the law intended.''
 But Dolores Mitchell, the executive director of an agency that provides health insurance to 265,000 state employees, said that for some residents, drug coverage was ''not just optional, it's maybe life and death, to say nothing of the preventive, since those people who can't afford it often end up in the hospital.''
 Ultimately, insurers, business interests and advocates said they found something to like in the plan.
 ''There are people who are satisfied with insurance that covers less than these requirements, and there are advocates who believe that all insurance should cover more than these requirements,'' said James Roosevelt Jr., the chief executive of the Tufts Health Plan and chairman of the Massachusetts Association of Health Plans. The authority, he said, ''struck a balance.''
 Brian Rosman, the research director for the advocacy group Health Care for All, said he was ''disappointed that the board did not eliminate lifetime maximums,'' but called the drug requirement ''a terrific step.''
 He said his group's next priority was pressing the authority to delay imposing penalties on lower-income people who may struggle to afford the minimum required insurance.
 That could include people like Ali Shriberg, 33, of Brookline, who is afraid she will not be able to afford a $2,000 deductible on a $40,000 salary as a freelance corporate trainer.
 And Maria Alves, 39, a dental assistant from the Dorchester area of Boston, who has two children, ages 9 and 14, and a husband on disability.
 ''I save a lot to give my kids food to go to school and pay the rent for them to live,'' Ms. Alves said. ''Now they will penalize me if I don't have insurance. I cannot afford it. I wish I can, but I can't.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria Alves, a dental assistant in Boston with a husband on disability and two school-age children, says she cannot afford health insurance. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); INCOME TAX (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

PERSON: Pam Belluck; Katie Zezima

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



446 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Captive in Guantanamo Makes Run for Office in Australia

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: AUBURN, Australia 

 BODY:
Mamdouh Habib cannot drink cold water. He vomits when he tries to, he said. He knows he must drink water, so he engages in vigorous exercise in order to force some lukewarm water down. 
 He says his doctor has told him his stomach has been damaged. Mr. Habib thinks it is from having gas forced into it through some kind of tubes inserted into his rectum when he was detained and, he says, tortured in Egypt.
''It made you feel like you were flying,'' he said. 
 Mr. Habib, an unemployed 51-year-old father of four, was an early case of rendition. He was seized in Pakistan in October 2001, where he has alleged that he was tortured, then bound up by tough English-speaking men in black and secretly flown to Egypt, where he was held and, by his accounts, tortured for several months, before being shipped to the American detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in April 2002.
 He was released from Guantanamo and returned to Australia in February 2005 without any charges filed against him, because the Bush administration did not want the torture allegations aired in court, Australian and American officials have said. 
 Now, he is fighting back. He is running in elections on March 24 for a seat in the parliament of the state of New South Wales, whose capital is Sydney. 
 If the fear has been that those released from Guantanamo would return home more radicalized from their experience, Mr. Habib, for his part, has decided to join the establishment, it seems, as a nonestablishment candidate. 
 ''We have to be inside the parliament to know what's going on, and to let the people on the outside know what is going on, and that is why we are doing this,'' said Raul Bassi, a native of Argentina, who recruited Mr. Habib to run.
 The Habibs; Mr. Bassi, a 60-year-old atheist, human rights and antiwar campaigner; and others from Mr. Habib's somewhat ragtag electoral network gathered on a Saturday morning for coffee at Michel's, on the busy corner of Auburn Road and Queen Street. The coalition includes the Greens, the Socialist Alliance and the Communist Party. 
 ''I'm from this community,'' Mr. Habib said, taking another cigarette. ''The people in parliament are not from us -- they're rich people.'' 
 Looking nothing like a traditional candidate, Mr. Habib, his hair in a ponytail, was wearing aviator sunglasses, combat fatigues and a T-shirt with an upside down American flag on it, along with a picture of a hooded prisoner behind barbed wire, and the word ''terrorism'' defined as ''the systematic use of violence and intimidation to achieve some goal.''
 The multiracial nature of the Auburn district is visible everywhere, in the people walking the streets -- women in full chador, Chinese, lanky Ethiopians and Somalis -- and in the shops they go into. Within a 100 yards of Michel's there is the Turkish Gozde Cafe; Ali Baba's Charcoal Chicken; Al Safra Pizza and Kebab House. 
 Tony Oldfield, who works in a flour mill and is also part of the election team, rattles off the census statistics, precisely: 18.1 percent Chinese, 10.7 percent Anglo-Australian, 10.5 percent Lebanese, 4.5 percent Arabic and Turk; there are also Afghans, Iraqis, Iranians.
 American and Australian officials have said that Mr. Habib, who once ran a commercial cleaning service, and then a restaurant, went to Pakistan in 2001, and later to Afghanistan where he trained with Al Qaeda. Mr. Habib does not deny going to Pakistan. He wanted to find a religious school for his children, he has said. 
 Since starting his campaign, he has not been asked by the voters in his district if he trained with Al Qaeda, he said, and if he is, he will answer. But, he said, he is not going to answer that question from a journalist, nor from the government.
 Mr. Habib's campaign has less than $2,000, Mr. Bassi said, and is relying on one-on-one contacts.
 Mike Newman, a 41-year-old computer programmer wearing shorts and sandals who emigrated from Britain seven years ago and whose wife is from Manila, signed a petition in support of Mr. Habib. 
 ''It's an alternative to the two major parties,'' he said, speaking of the center-right Liberal Party and the center-left Labor Party. On race and immigration issues, there is not a lot of difference between those parties, he said.
 Harla Kassem, 24, a bank officer of Lebanese descent, said her two brothers planned to vote for Mr. Habib. But she did not think she would. 
 ''I don't think he's normal, after what he's been through,'' she said, delicately. There have been stories that Mr. Habib, like many Guantanamo detainees, suffered serious mental problems while in custody. It is another subject Mr. Habib does not wish to talk about.
 Mr. Habib said he harbored no bitterness toward the American people. He has sisters and cousins living in New York, he said. He even has respect for many of the guards at Guantanamo. They were just doing their job, he said.
 ''You can't take your anger with you,'' he said. ''You have to control yourself.'' 
 After being beaten and interrogated in Pakistan, he said, an Australian official told him he would never go home, would never see his family again. At the end of what he says was a brutal interrogation, Mr. Habib stood up and shook the man's hand. The man was astonished, Mr. Habib said. 
 ''It makes me proud of myself,'' he said about his gesture. ''It gives me victory. I have my dignity. He doesn't.''
 Mr. Habib does not expect to win, but he does plan to keep fighting, his own way.
 ''If we don't win this election, we'll go to the next one,'' he said. ''And if we don't with that one, we'll go to the next, and the next one after that. This is just practice.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mamdouh Habib with his wife, Maha, in Auburn, Australia, a multiracial town in New South Wales where he seeks a state parliament seat. (Photo by Tony Sernack for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TORTURE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); POLITICS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); NAVIES (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (61%); AL-QAEDA (60%); RELIGION (50%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%) Terrorism; Elections; Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba); Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: Mahdouh Habib; Raymond Bonner; Raul Bassi

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%) AUSTRALIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); CUBA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Australia; Pakistan; Afghanistan; New South Wales (Australia)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



447 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-13 Despite Ban, Palestinians See More Aid Under HamasDespite the international embargo on aid to the Palestinian Authority since the election victory of Hamas, significantly more aid was delivered to the Palestinians in 2006 than in 2005, official figures indicate. A1 Hawks Leaving Bush TeamWhen Robert Johnson, undersecretary for arms control at the State Department, resigned last month, he became one of the last of the hawks to resign from the Bush administration. His resignation reflects what some hawks see as a drift in the administration toward too much compromise and caution. A1 Iraq Bombers Use Child DecoysInsurgents detonated a bomb in a car with two children in it after using the children as decoys to get through a checkpoint in Baghdad, an American general said. 
American soldiers had stopped the car but allowed it to pass after seeing the children. A12 Fire Raises Concerns in RussiaThe fire that killed 62 people at a home for the elderly and disabled in Russia highlights concerns about the state of the nation's buildings and industries, the laxity of safety standards and the strains on emergency rescue services. A3 Britain Considers Veil RuleBritish authorities proposed new rules to allow schools to forbid Muslim students from wearing full-face veils in class, reflecting a wider debate over Britain's relationship with its Muslim minority. A10 World Bank Revises Loan PlanAfter months of wrangling, the World Bank committed itself to a plan to fight corruption in its $20 billion annual loan program but not to cut off financing to poorly governed countries without approval. A11 Scores Die in Pakistan ClashesFierce fighting between foreign militants and local tribesmen in northern Pakistan in the past few days has left nearly 60 dead, government and security officials said. A11 NATIONAL A14-19 Democrats Reject Offer In Prosecutor InquiryThe White House offered to allow members of Congressional committees to hold private interviews with Karl Rove, the president's senior adviser, Harriet E. Miers, the former White House counsel, and two other officials regarding the firing of federal prosecutors. But Democrats promptly rejected the offer. A1 Governor Will Not Run AgainGov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana, a Democrat struggling politically after Hurricane Katrina, announced that she would not seek a second term. A14 Bipartisan Warning for F.B.I.House Republicans joined Democrats in warning the F.B.I. that it could lose the power to demand that companies turn over customers' telephone, e-mail and financial records if it did not correct abuses of the investigative tool known as national security letters. A18 Massachusetts Sets BenefitsMassachusetts took a major step in its near-universal health care overhaul, with the board that oversees the plan voting to require health insurers to provide certain minimum benefits, including coverage of prescription drugs. The decision is subject to final approval in June. A18 SCIENCE/HEALTHDoctors' Ties to Drug MakersRecords in Minnesota, one of the first states to pass a law requiring drug makers to disclose payments to doctors, provide a window on the financial ties between pharmaceutical companies and the doctors who prescribe their products. A1 Alzheimer's on the RiseMore than five million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, a 10 percent increase from the last tally five years ago and a number expected to more than triple by 2050, absent a cure, as baby boomers move into their late 60s and 70s. A14NEW YORK/REGION B1-6New Congresswoman Carefully Picks ProjectsKirsten Gillibrand arrived in Congress two months ago, ready to tackle national problems like health care, immigration and the war in Iraq. But few issues are as challenging as the one she has been confronting for the past few weeks: picking pet projects for her upstate New York district. B1No Rush to Civil UnionsPreliminary figures show that 229 same-sex couples applied for civil union licenses in New Jersey in the first month since they became available, far fewer than the 1,700 who registered as domestic partners in the state within a month of that becoming an option in 2004. B1Rape Victim Slain; Suspect HeldAfter Natasha Ramen was raped, she went to the police and obtained an order of protection against the man she said was her attacker. That did not prevent him from killing her on a Queens street, the police say. B3ARTS E1-10Museum Makes $18 MillionThe first in a series of sales of antiquities from the collection of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo made more than $18 million at Sotheby's, providing a substantial boost to the museum's endowment but saddening a group of patrons who have protested the decision to sell. E1OBITUARIES B8Jim CroninA self-trained zoologist who built a wildlife park on a deserted pig farm in southern England, then roamed the world with his wife to rescue illegally captured chimpanzees, orangutans and other primates, he was 55. B8BUSINESS DAY C1-12 A Warning on Iran Oil DealsThe Bush administration has quietly been warning energy companies that penalties are possible if they pursue deals with Iran. C1 Blockbuster Chief OustedJohn F. Antioco, the chief executive of Blockbuster who has been locked in a dispute with company directors over the size of his bonus, has agreed to leave his job at the end of the year. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A20-21Editorials: What people really need; Russia, Iran and the bottom line; why is Blackstone going public?; Tom DeLay looks back.Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Stanley Fish.Crossword E6Weather D8TV Listings E9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HAMAS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); FIRES (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (66%); HURRICANES (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (52%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (57%); KARL ROVE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



448 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HOME AWAY; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: A Second Home, for the Love of the Land

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
Richard Radcliffe is putting his second home to work. Three years ago, Mr. Radcliffe, 48, who lives in San Francisco, bought a six-acre vineyard in Occidental, Calif., in Sonoma County. He now sells his annual harvest of pinot noir grapes (last year he generated 17 tons) to two local Sonoma County winemakers who use them for wines that retail for $45 to $55 a bottle. 
 Then again, Mr. Radcliffe, a former chef, might say that he is the one being put to work. His time at the property, which has a three bedroom vacation home as well as a house occupied by long-term renters, is spent managing the vineyard, repairing irrigation systems and bringing in crews of workers for late winter vine pruning and the fall harvest.
''I live there full time during harvest,'' he said. ''It's nerve-racking.'' After investing about $30,000 in the vineyard each year, he manages to squeeze out a small profit. 
 Yet while the economics of running the vineyard are important to Mr. Radcliffe, who tries to increase his profits by handling much of the labor on his own, he readily admits that it isn't the financial reward that drives him. ''It's love of the outdoors, and the love of the cycle of nature,'' he said. ''That's why I do it.'' 
 For some second-home owners, a vacation retreat isn't simply about relaxation. Be it a ranch, a vineyard laden with cabernet (or pinot noir) grapes, or an orchard filled with rows of pecan trees, houses with an agricultural element can tap into a second-home owner's inner love of the land. And it is that notion, rather than any potential riches, that drives owners to buy such properties. 
 ''There is a fair amount of romance in it,'' said John Pierce, a partner at Hall and Hall, a real estate brokerage that sells large ranches in the western states and South America. ''It's typically not so much that they think they will make a bunch of money. But the operations can help cover the cost of ownership.'' 
 In addition to its real estate services, Hall and Hall has a farm management division that can create land management plans, figuring out for instance just how many cattle a 100-acre spread can support. Prices for ranches, of course, vary widely and are dependent not simply on the size of the property and the house or outbuildings. Everything from the views, to the presence of a good trout stream or the land's value as a hunting ground can bolster the price from a few thousand dollars an acre to tens of thousands or more. 
 A ranch in Victor, Mont., 30 miles south of Missoula, complete with 120 acres, a house, a guest house and frontage on the Bitterroot River, is going for $2.6 million, or $21,666 an acre, while a 1,100-acre hay farm in Absarokee, Mont., 50 miles outside of Billings, has an asking price of $1.25 million, or $1,136 an acre.
 Playing the role of weekend farmer, rancher or vintner doesn't have to mean getting your hands dirty. For the larger properties, in fact, outsourcing the manual labor may be the only option for a second-home owner. Frank Abatemarco, an agent with Sotheby's International Realty, is the listing agent for a home three miles north of Montecito, Calif., near Santa Barbara, with ocean views and rows of avocado and lemon trees spread out on 80 acres. ''You don't do 80 acres on a weekend,'' Mr. Abatemarco said. ''There are ranch services that will farm the land for you and give you a cut of the proceeds. Income varies from year to year, though. There are good years, and there are bad years.''
 While the $20 million price tag for this oceanside property is lofty, the owner benefits from California legislation, the Williamson Act, that keeps property taxes low on large spreads preserved for agricultural uses and not subdivided. A parcel this size would generally have a property tax bill of $210,000 a year, Mr. Abatemarco said, but because of the Williamson Act, it is just $24,000. 
 Other properties offer the atmosphere of a ranch without the work. Maytag Mountain Ranch, a working cattle ranch in Hillside, Colo., is being sold in 100-acre parcels starting at $895,000. Each homeowner gets a 1/27th stake in the ranch, along with an allotment of grass-fed beef and access to a lodge on the property during the home-building process. Income from the grass-fed cattle operation, which is small scale and takes in about $40,000 a year, goes toward covering the costs of the ranch's two full-time employees. 
 Homeowners of smaller properties may be able to handle the upkeep on their own. Karin Davidson, a real estate agent in Las Cruces, N.M., who has three acres of certified organic pecan trees on her property, said that a resident with a two- or three-acre orchard could maintain the trees on his or her own and sell the harvest to a local nut accumulator, who buys up the production of small farmers.
 ''Some owners use the money to then pay their property taxes,'' said Ms. Davidson, explaining that the owners either agree to a set price for their harvest, say $1 a pound, or opt to determine the payment through a more complicated system that relies on the ratio of the shell to the nut meat. Prices for land with pecan orchards start at about $20,000 an acre if here is no house on the property, she said. 
 Often, buying an agricultural property requires opting for a second home in a remote location. Mr. Pierce, the ranch broker, said that to get bigger parcels, more home buyers are looking at ranches far from metropolitan areas. Sure, there are ranches an hour outside Jackson, Wyo., or Sun Valley, Idaho, but there are many more distant choices that are appealing, he said. 
 His firm's listings include a 465-acre ranch in Rowland, Nev., near the Idaho border; a ranch in Wheatland, Wyo., in the southeast corner of the state an hour north of Cheyenne; and a 160-acre spread in Dillon, Mont., that is 45 minutes from the nearest town and requires a four-wheel-drive vehicle, or snowmobile, to reach. 
 After all, for the most affluent buyer, visiting a remote second home merely requires a nearby private landing strip. ''You are starting to see people looking farther away from the resort communities in order to get a little more bang for their buck,'' Mr. Pierce said. ''But there is a tradeoff: It's a longer drive into town for a latte.''

GRAPHIC: Photo (Illustration by Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FARM MANAGEMENT SERVICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); WINERIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



449 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: To Ingenuity Add a Shovel: Meet the Wovel

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NEW CANAAN, Conn. 

 BODY:
Like Albert Einstein, like Isaac Newton, like Thomas Edison, Mark Noonan had an idea. 
 Actually, like them, he had lots of ideas, though most of them never got past his sketchbooks. But one of them might, in its own small way, make history. So before the snow melts away, while we bid winter adieu here on the first full day of spring, let us praise Mr. Noonan. A throwback to the glory days of American ingenuity, a swimmer against the tide, he's the inventor of the Wovel, the iPod of snow shovels.
The Wovel (rhymes with shovel), looks like one of those high-wheeled 19th-century bicycles incongruously transported to that pile of snow in the driveway. It relies on two simple principles of physics, the wheel and the lever, to revolutionize the humble art of shoveling snow -- at least the part that hasn't been revolutionized out of existence by the plow guy who does it for you. 
 For those of us who actually take pride in getting rid of snow ourselves, the Wovel really is something new. It acts as a lever using as its fulcrum the axis of a wheel three feet in diameter. A shovel blade 26 inches wide and 18 inches deep and a handle extend in opposite directions from the wheel's hub.
 Rather than bending down and using your back to lift and throw 30 pounds of snow, you simply push the snow along, as if pushing a baby carriage, and then push the handle down, throwing the snow wherever you like. Think of pushing down on a seesaw with snow on the other end.
 A study at the University of Massachusetts found back strain from the Wovel is roughly akin to walking, reducing the risk of lower-back injury from shoveling snow by 85 percent. This is not insignificant in that the Consumer Product Safety Commission estimates that nearly 76,000 people a year are treated for injuries from shoveling and blowing snow, not to mention the deaths from heart attacks. And it's a way to get rid of snow without burning fossil fuel. (It's available at the Web site Wovel.com and online from retailers like Hammacher Schlemmer and Home Depot.)
 ''It's the most amazing machine,'' said Richard Lechner, 53, a dentist in New Britain, Conn., who spent much of the winter cursing the blue sky and wishing for snow so he could use his new Wovel. ''The most astonishing thing is that someone didn't come up with this 50 years ago. All it is is a wheel, a handle and a snow shovel, but it makes shoveling snow at least 10 times easier.''
 Mr. Noonan's march to Woveldom began with a bad back. A tinkerer as a kid, he was a physics major in college who then switched to economics in search of something more ''practical.'' But even after going to work on Wall Street, he continued to come up with ideas for tangible products. 
 In 2000, while nursing a bad back, pushing his shovel with his knee rather than lifting, he began thinking of the physics of snow shoveling. How could you create leverage, he thought. After contemplating and abandoning a two-wheeled approach, he built a one-wheel prototype out of sheet metal, sheet metal screws and (what else?) duct tape. He took it to the backyard and was stunned how well it worked. 
 At first, Mr. Noonan's notion was just to have something to clear the skating rink he built in his backyard, but soon he began to think of the Wovel as a commercial product. A serious bout of cancer a year later put that off, and partly because of that, he eventually figured, why not act on this one? 
 In 2003, he quit his job on Wall Street churning out abstruse financial products and decided to see if he could churn out real ones instead. Will the Wovel change the world? Who knows? It looks weird, it requires people to try something new and it must be assembled. 
 For some -- not all -- users it takes a little of practice, like learning to ride a bicycle. At about $120 it's a lot less than a snow blower, but a lot more than the average shovel.
 Still, Time magazine named it one of its best inventions of 2006, it's been praised by Popular Mechanics and was named one of the Top 10 picks at the International Hardware Show in 2006. 
 Mr. Noonan has sold about 15,000 so far, a number that surely would have been higher had there been more snow the past two winters. He just needs to hope climate change doesn't put him out of business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Using physics, the Wovel reduces strain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); WEATHER (77%); SPORTS INJURIES (76%); PHYSICS (73%); ERGONOMICS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); CONSUMER LAW (62%); RETAILERS (62%); INTERNET RETAILING (60%); PRODUCT SAFETY (50%) Shovels; Weather; Snow and Snowstorms; Inventions and Patents; Back (Body Part); Ergonomics

PERSON: Mark Noonan; Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



450 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae Ends Purchases of Loans by New Century

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
New Century Financial, once the nation's largest independent provider of subprime mortgages, was dealt a fresh setback yesterday when Fannie Mae said it would no longer buy its loans made to borrowers with poor credit. 
 In a related matter, People's Choice, a privately held subprime lender, filed for bankruptcy protection, joining more than two dozen home financiers that have sought Chapter 11 status since the crisis involving subprime lenders came to national attention late last year.
Last week, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported a record number of United States home loans going into foreclosure in the fourth quarter, led by the subprime category.
 In a hopeful sign yesterday, Accredited Home Lenders Holding, which has been struggling, said it had won fresh financing from a San Francisco hedge fund, helping it avert an immediate cash crisis. The news bolstered hopes that some investors might see bargains in the battered group.
 But Wells Fargo, which has been the largest American subprime lender though it never made some of the riskiest loans, said it was eliminating 121 jobs at a unit in Tempe, Ariz., that offers mortgages to higher-risk borrowers, on top of 323 previously announced job cuts in other offices of its home loan unit.
 Many other subprime lenders have been cutting jobs or announcing layoffs in recent weeks, including Fremont General, NovaStar Financial and the WMC Mortgage unit of General Electric.
 For New Century, Fannie Mae's decision was a new blow to a company whose lending practices are already under scrutiny by investigators in a number of states.
 Fannie Mae severed business ties with New Century, meaning that the lender can no longer sell its loans to the leading American packager and reseller of mortgages.
 New Century has managed so far to avoid a bankruptcy filing, but investors seemed to be losing faith in its chances of continuing to do so. The news yesterday sent its stock down 22 percent, to $1.69.
 People's Choice became the latest subprime casualty, a group that includes Mortgage Lenders Network USA, Ownit Mortgage Solutions and ResMae Mortgage, which have already filed for bankruptcy protection.
 Shares of many subprime lenders have dropped sharply in recent weeks as a rising wave of delinquencies prompted Wall Street investment banks to cut off a big source of funds to the group.
 But shares of Accredited rose after it said it secured a five-year, $200 million loan from Farallon Capital Management. The loan carries an interest rate of 13 percent. Accredited's stock closed up $1.82, or 20 percent, at $10.77. 
 Any news of financing for the endangered lenders or even of stability in the housing market seems lately to have been a rallying point for investors. 
 Also lifting sentiment was a report by the Commerce Department that the pace of home construction rose 9 percent in February, surpassing forecasts. But building permits were below expectations, extending a downward trend and limiting optimism about a sustained upturn in housing.
 Subprime lenders are coming under increasing pressure from Washington as well. On Monday, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, the chairman of the Banking Committee and a presidential aspirant, said that he had asked executives at the top five subprime companies to explain their lending practices at a hearing on Thursday.
 The companies are New Century, HSBC Holdings, Countrywide Financial, WMC Mortgage and First Franklin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (94%); LAYOFFS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); ACCREDITATION (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); BUILDING PERMITS (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Bankruptcies; Labor; Housing; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); NOVATION COS INC (54%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: New Century Financial; Fannie Mae; People's Choice (Co); Accredited Home Lenders ; Farallon Capital; Wells Fargo & Co

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



451 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: Earmarked for Success?

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
Kirsten Gillibrand arrived in Congress two months ago, ready to tackle national problems like health care, immigration and the war in Iraq. But few issues are as challenging as the one she has been confronting for the past few weeks: picking pet projects for her district.
 Huddled around a coffee table with her senior staff members inside her office on Capitol Hill, Representative Gillibrand has been poring over scores of requests from elected officials and community leaders, Democrats and Republicans alike, who are turning to her for money as Congress begins hammering out the federal budget.
It is the bricks and mortar of legislative life, and, as Ms. Gillibrand has come to learn, the requests for federal aid range from the major (like $7 million to build a new police station in Saratoga Springs) to things that are obscure even to her (like $400,000 to renovate the James Vanderpoel House in Kinderhook).
 ''Who was Mr. Vanderpoel?'' Ms. Gillibrand blurted out the other day as she went down the list of requests, known as earmarks in the shorthand of backroom politics. (This one, she learned, was for a home that the local historical society describes as a ''a distinguished example of Federal Period architecture'' in the 1820s.) 
 Ms. Gillibrand, 40, a Democrat whose overwhelmingly Republican district runs along the Hudson Valley from New York's suburbs to the Adirondacks, agreed to give The New York Times a rare spectator's seat around the table as such calculations were being made as part of a yearlong look at her life as a rookie congresswoman.
 Her choices were not always clear-cut. For example, should she try to obtain financial help for the Opera House in Hudson, or for the Volunteer Fire Department in Clifton Park? 
 The lobbying was often intensely personal. A longtime acquaintance of the congresswoman, who runs a foundation called the Eleanor Roosevelt Papers, was among the legions of people who dropped by seeking support. And the process seemed to be fraught with enough political peril to keep her up at night.
 ''I came up with that idea at literally 3 in the morning when I couldn't sleep,'' she said to her staff at a recent meeting, after proposing a novel way to get $6.8 million in funding for renovations at the Olympic center in Lake Placid. ''It made sense at 3 in the morning.''
 At the heart of Ms. Gillibrand's deliberations over earmarks is a paradox. She rode into Congress, against great odds, partly on a wave of voter revulsion with Washington ethics. Democrats did their best to stoke that revulsion, campaigning against ''special-interest earmarks,'' which they said Republicans would secretly insert into spending bills at the behest of allies and contributors. 
 Ms. Gillibrand, a lawyer, argued that the secrecy of the earmarking process had contributed to the scandals that engulfed the Hill. Now she asserts that earmarks, when dispensed fairly and openly, are an important way of addressing local needs. And under new rules imposed by a new Democratic majority, she is required to attach her name to the pet projects she sponsors and to certify that she has no financial interest in the projects.
 Clearly, her willingness to allow a reporter to observe at least some of her earmark deliberations seemed intended to show that the process has become more open. And she says she wants to wring the politics out of the earmarking process by requiring every project to pass a ''greatest-need, greatest-good'' test. 
 To critics of the earmarks process, it is not enough. Steve Ellis, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, said that Ms. Gillibrand's efforts at transparency, while laudable, barely scratched the surface of the problem, because lawmakers can still submit funding requests based on personal and political calculations. 
 ''The way the process works is that Congress awards winners of taxpayer dollars on the basis of political muscle rather than a project's merit,'' he said.
 On one recent morning, Ms. Gillibrand sat in her office with a purple marker staring at a board with the names of every county in District 20, no doubt mindful of her stated goal of sprinkling money evenly among all the counties.
 ''Which do you think is more important?'' she asked her staff, when she got to choosing between a $1 million request to renovate a recreation center for teenagers and a $1.2 million request to build a community center for the elderly in Hudson. (In the end, the youth center climbed to the top of the list, before the senior center, with Ms. Gillibrand reasoning that Hudson was looking for a way to keep teenagers out of trouble.) 
 The last few weeks have been telling. As Ms. Gillibrand and her staff sat inside her office debating projects, a parade of supplicants -- many representing politically potent constituent groups and institutions -- appeared at her door in the Cannon House Office Building, mindful that the deadline for lawmakers to submit earmark proposals to House leaders was fast approaching.
 The visitors included farmers, representatives of a bus drivers' union in Albany, the president of Siena College in Loudonville, the president of the State University of New York College at Delhi, the director of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, the president of Glens Falls Hospital, and on and on.
 Each decision involved opportunity and risk. For instance, the congresswoman crossed off a nearly $8 million proposal to construct a museum in Fort Edward that would showcase remnants of an 18th-century British fort and Indian artifacts. The remnants and artifacts would be unearthed during an environmental cleanup project in the town that involves the dredging of tons of PCB-contaminated sediment from the banks and bed of the Hudson River.
 Local officials, including an outspoken and politically influential town supervisor, have said the museum would give a boost to the economically beleaguered town, and its rejection was not expected to engender good feelings.
 ''We're going to take some lumps,'' acknowledged Mike Russo, the congresswoman's district director.
 Underscoring the political pressures involved, Ms. Gillibrand and her staff said that they would work on finding federal grants for the museum and other projects that do not get earmark appropriations.
 The congresswoman got a sobering glimpse into the political potency of earmarks in her first few weeks in office. In the months before November's midterm elections, her predecessor, Representative John E. Sweeney, a Republican, had promised community leaders in the district federal money for an assortment of projects that included a new road, a health center and radiology equipment for a local hospital.
 But that money failed to come through because Congress did not pass a budget last fall. Then, after Mr. Sweeney's defeat, his requests were shelved. Local Republicans blamed Ms. Gillibrand, and their complaints were seen in local newspaper and television reports a few weeks ago.
 ''The Pork That Got Away,'' a headline began in one newspaper above an article quoting a local Republican Party leader close to Mr. Sweeney listing millions of dollars in lost projects.
 The Gillibrand camp spent the next few weeks doing damage control, with Mr. Russo, her district director, meeting with local leaders to, among other things, reassure them that the congresswoman had nothing to do with eliminating the projects. ''I got on the horn right away,'' recalled Mr. Russo, a politically connected former union official. ''It was like the campaign, when they made accusations that were not true.''
 Earmarking, in the end, is more art than science, as the deliberation in Ms. Gillibrand's office showed over the last few weeks. People do not have to justify the projects they propose before public hearings or even submit them to the competitive bidding process that governs other grant programs.
 Rather, the fate of the projects is entirely in the hands of lawmakers like Ms. Gillibrand, who submit only a fraction of the requests they receive to House appropriators, who, in turn, whittle down those lists of requests even further. 
 (In Ms. Gillibrand's case, her staff submitted a prioritized list of roughly 70 of the more than 200 proposals that have come into her office, with the expectation that only about 10 will get approved by members of the House Appropriations Committee in a highly secretive process.)
 In a process like this, it is impossible to discount the value of direct personal appeals. At a recent meeting, for instance, Ms. Gillibrand told her staff to put a $1.6 million request for a new civic center in Glens Falls near the top of the list, saying that she had just met with the mayor of that struggling city the previous weekend and he said the project was a priority.
 Inevitably there will be losers, and there is always the danger that some of those groups will become political enemies. But Ms. Gillibrand has managed to use the earmarking process to win over Republicans as well. David G. Kruczlnicki, a Republican and the president of the hospital in Glens Falls, was among the people her office reached out to after the flap erupted involving promises her predecessor made.
 While Mr. Kruczlnicki's hospital did not receive the $400,000 that Mr. Sweeney had pledged for new radiation equipment, Ms. Gillibrand's office is planning to request $3 million for the hospital to construct a new building for a primary health clinic it now runs in a rural part of the district.
 ''I think she did get a raw deal,'' Mr. Kruczlnicki said of the criticism that was leveled at Ms. Gillibrand. ''I've been very impressed with her commitment.''
 Late last week, the process came to an abrupt end. Ms. Gillibrand signed off on the final list of requests and, on Friday, boarded a noontime flight back to her district. Then, three weary members of her legislative staff walked the requests over to Congressional budgeteers spread out in offices throughout the Capitol complex, where the fate of the projects will be decided in the coming months.The Freshman
 This is the second article in a series that is chronicling Kirsten Gillibrand's first year in Congress. 
 The first article is online at nytimes.com/nyregion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Kirsten Gillibrand, seated, a Democrat, and members of her staff sifted through constituents' requests for federal aid last week. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Last week, the congresswoman greeted high school students from her district who paid a visit in the Cannon House Office Building.
 Representative Kirsten Gillibrand talked with farmers, one of many groups from her district in upstate New York to ask for support in Washington. (Photographs by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart: ''Pet Project Spending''Congressional spending on members' projects has increased more than tenfold since 1991.Graph tracks Congressional spending from 1991 to 2006.2006: $29 billion(Source by Citizens Against Government Waste)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ETHICS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); POLITICS (71%); MOUNTAINS (69%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (62%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Surveys and Series

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (59%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (94%) Kirsten (Rep) Gillibrand; Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) United States; New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



452 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tours 2 Auto Plants And Talks of Energy Policy

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: CLAYCOMO, Mo., March 20 

 BODY:
President Bush on Tuesday toured plants of Ford and General Motors, two troubled automakers, and then gave a pep talk to hundreds of workers, saying that their work would help national security by reducing the nation's dependence on foreign oil. 
 Mr. Bush emphasized the points where his agenda intersected with that of the auto companies: ethanol, hybrid vehicles and the hope for fuel cells.
''You're making a new kind of automobile that is literally a part of changing America for the better,'' he told workers at the Ford plant here, standing in front of vehicles that included a pickup painted to look like a cornfield that can run on ethanol. 
 Mr. Bush is scheduled to meet with industry executives next week in Washington. The Detroit automakers are seeking several forms of federal relief, including help with health care costs and continued support for research on ethanol and battery technology. They are eagerly supporting Mr. Bush's path on fuel economy rules, which is mild compared with what Democrats in Congress are calling for.
 Despite early federal intervention in the Clinton administration, American manufacturers have fallen behind in the hybrid business, which is now dominated by Toyota. 
 The Bush administration de-emphasized hybrids and stressed hydrogen fuel cells, though questions remain about whether that technology can be economically competitive. 
 In his speech in Claycomo, a northern suburb of Kansas City, Mr. Bush called on Congress to approve his energy program before the beginning of the summer driving season. ''That would be a good sign that we recognize that we've got a problem here in America, and we aim to solve it together,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush, who has also called for a steep increase in ethanol production, told the autoworkers that it was better to pay a farmer to make energy than a foreign oil producer. But he also acknowledged limits to the current approach, which relies on ethanol made from corn and which some critics say is driving up food prices.
 ''That's fine if you're a corn grower, but it's not fine if you're a hog raiser,'' he said. The longer-term goal is to make ethanol from wood chips, garbage or other wastes, he said.
 The Claycomo plant, which began building Fords 50 years ago, now builds F-150 trucks, and two sport utility vehicles, the Mariner and the Escape, that come in hybrid versions and qualify for federal tax credits.
 The autoworkers are acutely aware of the changes in their industry. Jeff Bohlmeyer started here in 1987, in the truck division, but recently transferred to the area that builds the S.U.V.s. In the truck division, Mr. Bohlmeyer said, ''it was nothing but maximum overtime, from 1987 to 2003.'' 
 But with increasing fuel prices, he added, there was no overtime there any more, but there is in the S.U.V. area. ''It's a lot more interesting being here, where things are happening,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ETHANOL (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); OVERTIME (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); TAX LAW (67%); CORN FARMING (67%); APPROVALS (64%); HOG & PIG FARMING (62%); FOOD PRICES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



453 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Blockbuster Chief Agrees To Exit Deal

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
John F. Antioco, the chief executive of Blockbuster who has been locked in a dispute with company directors over the size of his bonus, has agreed to leave his job at the end of the year.
 Mr. Antioco will exit with far less than he initially wanted and two years before his contract expires.
Blockbuster said yesterday that Mr. Antioco would receive about $3.1 million for his 2006 bonus -- less than half the amount he said he was entitled to, but $772,500 more than the board offered him in January. 
 He will also receive a severance payout of just under $5 million, Blockbuster said.
 The agreement effectively ends a two-year battle of egos and management styles that began when the financier Carl C. Icahn, a Blockbuster director and one of its largest shareholders, objected to Mr. Antioco's $51.6 million compensation package. At the time, the company was facing a crippling financial crisis.
 The feud became an early flashpoint in the push for changing how corporate executives are compensated, and led at one point to Mr. Antioco's brief removal as Blockbuster's chairman after shareholders overwhelmingly elected Mr. Icahn and two of his allies to the board.
 Mr. Antioco, who has led the Dallas-based company for a decade, was supposed to stay in his job until 2009 under the terms of his contract. But his relations with board members became even more strained in January when they awarded him a $2.3 million bonus for 2006 -- an amount he felt underpaid him by some $5.4 million based on what the company said its bonus structure for the year would be.
 In another sign of dissatisfaction with the chief executive, the board said it would give him nothing if he contested the amount of the bonus. For the last six weeks, the two sides tried to reach an agreement that would keep the matter out of court.
 The deal they reached, which was approved by Blockbuster's board and signed by Mr. Antioco on Monday, had something in it for all sides. By still paying him less of a bonus in percentage terms than other Blockbuster employees received, the board signaled their displeasure with the chief executive's job performance. For his part, Mr. Antioco will leave the company on his own terms, avoiding a potentially awkward legal battle.
 ''John believes this is a fair compromise,'' said Blockbuster's senior vice president for corporate communications, Karen Raskopf. ''It allows for management continuity, time for an orderly succession and enables him to leave on a timeline and on terms that are acceptable to him.''
 One point of contention was the amount of Mr. Antioco's severance pay. Under the terms of his contract, he was entitled to $13.5 million if he was terminated ''without cause or resigned for good reason,'' according to a company filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 Mr. Icahn opposed giving Mr. Antioco that large an amount.
 In an interview yesterday, Mr. Icahn said he opposed contracts with large severances because he thought they eroded accountability.
 ''I have nothing against John,'' he said. ''And I have no problem with the C.E.O. being richly rewarded for a job well done. I really believe contracts like this are one of the things wrong with corporate America. When you have these huge severance packages, it so obviously undermines any type of accountability.'' 
 Mr. Antioco declined to comment beyond a written statement that said in part, ''I am pleased that we were able to reach this agreement.'' As part of the agreement, he will receive $4.7 million in compensation for this year. 
 Ms. Raskopf said Mr. Antioco would donate to charity the $772,500 difference, after taxes, between what the board first offered and what it ended up paying for his 2006 bonus.
 The company's stock price gained in 2006, but remains worth a small fraction of its high mark of nearly $30 a share in 2002. Yesterday, shares of Blockbuster closed down 3.5 percent, to $6.86.
 Blockbuster has struggled to stem the flow of customers away from its video stores to online video rental services like NetFlix. Its losses in 2004 and 2005 totaled nearly $2 billion. But its turnaround plan, which has included closing stores and focusing more on renting videos online, gained some traction. Last year, it earned nearly $60 million.
 Mr. Icahn stepped up his efforts for change at the company in 2005, when he nominated himself to the board to oppose what he said was an ''unconscionable'' $51.6 million pay package for Mr. Antioco. 
 With Blockbuster deep in the red, Mr. Icahn pressed the company to sell itself to a private equity firm, a move that the company's management opposed.
 Yesterday, Mr. Icahn declined to name any candidates the board was considering as Mr. Antioco's successor, but he was resolute when asked how the new chief executive's pay and benefits might compare with the departing chief executive's.
 ''I feel the contract has been sort of an albatross around the company's neck,'' Mr. Icahn said, referring to Mr. Antioco's pay and severance. ''You should reward people if the stock goes up. You shouldn't have contracts like this.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Antioco will leave at year's end with about $8 million, rather than the $13.5 million his contract provided. (Photo by Brendan McDermid/Reuters)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%) Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Bonuses ; Boards of Directors

ORGANIZATION: Blockbuster Inc; Blockbuster Inc

PERSON: JOHN F ANTIOCO (94%); CARL ICAHN (87%) John F Antioco; Carl C Icahn; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



454 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
A PUZZLING BUSINESS A Japanese publishing company called Nikoli, widely regarded as the world's most prolific wellspring of logic games and brain teasers, is looking for the next big puzzle to follow the sudoku craze. [Page C1.] PENALTIES FOR DEALING WITH IRAN The administration has been warning energy companies and the governments of China, India, Pakistan and Malaysia that they face penalties from the United States if they assist Iran in producing oil and natural gas. [C1.] PARTING COMPANY A nearly two-year dispute between John F. Antioco, the chief executive of Blockbuster, and his company's board ended with Mr. Antioco's decision to step down before the end of the year. 
He will receive a bonus for 2006 of $3.1 million; he thought he was entitled to $7.65 million. [C1.] DRUG MAKERS AND DOCTORS The widespread financial ties between pharmaceutical companies and the doctors who prescribe and recommend their products are becoming more visible, because a handful of states now require drug makers to disclose payments to doctors. [A1.] NEW AIRLINE WITH BRITISH ROOTS A proposed start-up airline backed by Richard Branson, called Virgin America, has won tentative United States approval, and could become a major new player in the market for flights between the East Coast and West Coast. [C3.] A BID TO TAKE A COMPANY PRIVATE Affiliated Computer Services, a provider of corporate computer services, is the target of a $5.9 billion buyout bid led by the company's founder, Darwin Deason, and the investment fund Cerberus Capital Management. [C4.] SUBPRIME SCOREBOARD New Century Financial, once the nation's largest independent provider of subprime mortgages, was dealt a setback when Fannie Mae said it would no longer buy its loans made to borrowers with poor credit. And People's Choice, a privately held lender, filed for bankruptcy protection. But in a hopeful sign for subprime lenders, Accredited Home Lenders Holding said it had won fresh financing from a hedge fund. [C2.] NEW HOME CONSTRUCTION Construction of new homes rebounded in February, rising 9 percent after a steep slide in January, but a further decline in building permits was seen as worrisome for the troubled housing industry. [C8.] PRENUPTIAL AGREEMENT The British bank Barclays and a Dutch rival, ABN Amro, who are discussing a merger, announced how they would organize the joint company: it would be listed in London, have its headquarters in Amsterdam and would split the top two jobs. [C8.] A LEGISLATIVE SOLUTION There is little consensus on whether financial institutions and law enforcement agencies are making headway in combating identity theft. But Congress is nonetheless taking aim at the crime as a major consumer protection problem. [C3.] MILKEN SELLING A STAKE Michael R. Milken, the former junk bond chief who served prison time for securities fraud, plans to sell a $1 billion stake in his group of educational companies called Knowledge Universe. Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse are helping find investors for the private sale, according to regulatory filings. Mr. Milken, above, is chairman of Knowledge Universe. [C2.]ORACLE'S QUARTERLY PROFIT UP Oracle, the software maker, reported that its profit increased 35 percent during the third quarter, exceeding even management's expectations of 24 percent to 29 percent. [C3.] DON'T TOUCH THAT DIAL ABC is considering changes in the way it interrupts programs for commercial breaks, hoping to encourage viewers to stick around rather than reach for the remote or race to the refrigerator. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.] INFANT CAR SEAT SAFETY Consumer Reports magazine said that the mistakes that forced it to retract a report on the safety of infant car seats stemmed from its failure to consult outside experts when devising a side-impact test. [C5.] TAKEOVER BIDS HELP LIFT SHARES Shares rose as takeover activity in the technology sector reassured investors about equity valuations and offset apprehension about a monetary policy meeting under way at the Federal Reserve. [C9.] LAPSES LED TO OIL EXPLOSION An explosion and fire that killed 15 contractors and injured 180 other workers at the BP oil refinery in Texas City two years ago was caused by company deficiencies ''at all levels,'' a federal safety panel reported. [A15.] ONLINETHE EXECUTIVE PAY PACKAGE Coverage of executive pay packages and interactive features are in a special section on executive pay at nytimes.com/business.WEEKEND BUSINESS In a podcast, reporters and editors from The Times's Sunday Business section offer perspective on the week in business and beyond. Information on subscribing is at nytimes.com/business. THE BUSINESS OF GREEN Companies are seeking economies of scale in alternative energy. A special report on the business of environmental conservation is at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Accredited Home Lenders shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (86%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); BONDS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); STARTUPS (71%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MERGERS (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); IDENTITY THEFT (67%); HOUSING STARTS (66%); GOING PRIVATE (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (62%); ACCREDITATION (62%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); BUILDING PERMITS (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (65%); AFFILIATED COMPUTER SERVICES INC (54%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (54%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (54%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (52%)

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (65%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (65%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (54%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: JOHN F ANTIOCO (69%); RICHARD BRANSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (90%); PAKISTAN (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



455 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cautions Foreign Companies on Iran Deals

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Sabrina Pacifici contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
For all its efforts to apply economic and political pressure on Iran over its nuclear program, the United States has never used a potentially potent tool in its arsenal -- penalties on foreign companies that assist Iran in producing oil and natural gas.
 That may be about to change. The Bush administration has quietly been warning energy companies, including Shell, Repsol and SKS, the Malaysian oil company, as well as the governments of China, India, Pakistan and Malaysia, that penalties are possible if they pursue energy deals with Iran.
As a result, several huge projects planned for Iran could be vulnerable. These include one possible $10 billion project by Royal Dutch Shell and the Spanish oil company, Repsol YPF, to develop a natural gas field offshore in Iran, and a $20 billion venture by SKS Ventures of Malaysia to produce natural gas in Iran's Golshan and Ferdows fields.
 In recent months, the administration has tried to avoid diplomatic or political controversies as a result of its jawboning. But the potential for sanctions is posing a quandary for the administration by setting up a possible fight with Europe if it proceeds with them or a fight with Congress if it does not. 
 One factor behind the warnings, administration officials acknowledge, is that the Democratic-controlled Congress appears to be moving quickly to pass a law that would make sanctions mandatory out of concern about Iran's suspected nuclear arms program and support for terrorism. 
 ''What we're trying to do is create multiple points of pressure on Iran in both the private and public sector,'' said R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs. ''These companies also need to know that the attitude of Congress on their activities in Iran is hardening.''
 But in orchestrating all this pressure on Iran, President Bush and his aides have been careful to avoid any kind of boycott or other threat that might cause oil and gas prices to soar and strangle the economies of the West.
 Short of a cutoff, the administration clearly wants to make it harder for Iran to tap into its oil and gas reserves to increase exports in the future. Iran's energy output has lagged in recent years, and many experts say the country faces the possibility of not having enough oil to export within as little as 10 years.
 Last month, the United States ambassador to Spain, Eduardo Aguirre Jr., met with Repsol executives in Madrid to advise them against going forward with a deal to develop Iran's South Pars field, which contains one of the world's biggest natural gas deposits. The ambassador was told that the deal was not yet final, according to American and Repsol officials.
 ''No investment is being made at present,'' said a Repsol spokesman in Madrid, who asked not to be identified by name. ''There will not be a decision on this until next year.'' 
 The messages to oil companies mark the latest episode in a long campaign of pressure that reached a turning point in December, when the administration won approval of a United Nations Security Council resolution designating 10 Iranian companies and a dozen individuals as off-limits for international financial dealings.
 Another resolution designating an additional 15 individuals and 13 Iranian government and business groups, including a leading Iranian bank, could be approved later this week. The administration, using the Security Council list, wants virtually all of the world's banks and businesses to boycott all of these Iranian entities.
 Despite the stepped up American pressure, some Democratic leaders in Congress are complaining that the administration has not gone far enough. 
 They want Mr. Bush to invoke a statute enacted in 1996 that obliges the United States government to punish any foreign energy company doing business with Iran unless the president waives the sanction on national security grounds.
 ''This administration has done nothing to punish Iran,'' said Representative Tom Lantos, a Democrat of California who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ''The method I don't favor on Iran is to bomb their nuclear facilities. The method I favor is to starve them of resources, which can only be done through sanctions.''
 After the bill passed a decade ago, European governments and companies vehemently objected, charging that it amounted to a brazen case of extra-territoriality, the term for one nation imposing its laws on foreign companies and sovereign nations.
 At the time, President Bill Clinton, acting to avoid a confrontation with Europe and in part to send a conciliatory message to Iran when moderates seemed to be vying for power, waived the sanctions on several European companies, including Total, the leading French oil concern.
 Recalling that precedent, Mr. Lantos said his bill would strip the president of the ability to waive sanctions on Iran on national security grounds. The Bush administration opposes that provision as a weakening of presidential prerogatives in foreign policy.
 A spokesman for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said that she supported Mr. Lantos's bill. Mr. Lantos says he is confident he can persuade lawmakers to pass his bill with a big enough majority to override a presidential veto.
 The existing sanctions law gives Washington the option to choose among several penalties, including denial of government credits to companies that deal with the foreign oil company, denial of export licenses and a ban on United States government procurement or imports from these companies.
 Administration officials say the reason no decisions have been made on whether to invoke or waive sanctions is that the energy exploration deals by Shell, Repsol, China, Malaysia, China and Pakistan are all still in an embryonic stage and that it is better to head them off by using persuasion than penalties.
 But they also say that the administration does not want to take any action now that would divide the United States from its allies in Europe on Iran, or to provoke China, India and Pakistan, whose support Washington needs for other foreign policy objectives.
 A senior European envoy involved in discussions over Iran said that Europeans would be unhappy with American sanctions against private oil companies, but that they also understood the importance of pressing the Tehran government. ''As long as we want to avoid a war with Iran, we have to try sanctions,'' he said.
 The steps being contemplated are part of a web of pressures, American and European officials say, which could be invoked in coming months. These include plans to sanction more Iranian banks, beyond the two that have already been hit by sanctions and barred from obtaining dollars from American banks. 
 The aim, American officials say, is to prevent Iran from obtaining dollars, the world's reserve currency, for use in the purchase of goods or services. Iranian leaders have said that American sanctions are forcing them to sell oil for euros or other currencies, even though oil is traded on the international markets in dollars. 
 In a separate set of actions, American and European officials say that recent pressure on European governments has led several to reduce or to pledge to reduce their government-backed credit guarantees for deals with Iran.
 Germany had $6.2 billion in outstanding export credits to Iran as of 2005, according to figures circulating at the United Nations. But Germany reported recently that after cutting back credits by 60 percent in the last two years, it planned further cutbacks this year.
 Japan, which had $1.9 billion in credits as of 2005, has also informed the United States that it has granted no medium- or long-term credit insurance since last June and has cut short-term credits. American officials say they have received similar pledges from Italy and France to cut back their export credits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BOYCOTTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); TERRORISM (64%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; Law and Legislation; Terrorism; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: REPSOL SA (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Shell Oil Co; Repsol-Ypf Sa; SKS Ventures; Royal Dutch Shell

TICKER: REP (MCE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); SPAIN (93%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); PAKISTAN (92%) Malaysia; China; India; Pakistan; Iran; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



456 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing South: Mississippi: Senate Rejects Changes To Grocery And Cigarette Taxes

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Mississippi Senate voted 31 to 20 to reject an effort that would have cut the state's 7 percent grocery tax in half and raised the cigarette tax. Gov. Haley Barbour, left, a Republican, has said that he opposes raising taxes but that the time is not right to reduce the grocery tax because Mississippi faces too much economic uncertainty in its recovery from Hurricane Katrina. A Senate resolution would have allowed the filing of a bill to cut the grocery tax and to raise the cigarette tax to $1 a pack from 18 cents, the third lowest in the nation. Mississippi residents pay the nation's highest taxes on groceries, yet rank among the lowest-paid households in the country. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (86%) Taxation; Smoking and Tobacco; Food

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (90%) Haley (Gov) Barbour

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



457 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Deadly Fire in Russia Highlights Violations and Negligence

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; C. J. Chivers and Viktor Klimenko contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 20 

 BODY:
A fire that swept through a home for the elderly and disabled in southern Russia killed at least 62 people early Tuesday, a toll that officials attributed to safety violations and a night watchman's negligence. Many of the dead were confined to their beds and unable to flee the smoke and flames, the officials said.
 The disaster comes on the heels of a mine explosion on Monday that killed more than 100 people and an airplane crash on Saturday in Samara, on the Volga River, that killed 7 and injured more than 20 of 57 aboard. The incident highlighted concerns about the state of Russia's buildings and industries, the laxity of safety standards and enforcement, and the strains on emergency rescue services, despite an economic boom fueled by rising oil and gas production. 
Fires, in particular, kill with frightening frequency in Russia, a phenomenon for which officials blame substandard buildings, minimal fire-safety measures and training, and social factors like smoking and drinking.
 In 2006, 17,065 people died in fires, an average of nearly 47 a day. In 2005, the last year comparative figures were available, nearly five times as many Russians died in fires as Americans, even though Russia's population is less than half that of the United States.
 President Vladimir V. Putin took the unusual step of addressing the disasters publicly, appearing on television only hours afterward to observe a moment of silence and then to demand thorough investigations. He later declared Wednesday a national day of mourning, calling for the cancellation of entertainment events and programs.
 In a country seemingly inured to scores of deaths in accidents and attacks, the scale of the nursing home fire -- the deadliest in Russia since the collapse of the Soviet Union more than 15 years ago -- was jarring.
 It erupted in a government facility in Kamyshevatskaya, a small village on the Azov Sea, even as rescuers continued to search for survivors in a coal mine in Siberia. The death toll in that accident rose to at least 107 on Tuesday and included 20 members of the mine's management, officials said. At least three other miners were still missing, though one emerged alive on Tuesday, the emergency services minister announced.
 The toll in Kamyshevatskaya appeared to have been worsened by a series of violations, including insufficient firefighting equipment in the two-story building, home for more than 90 patients, both the elderly and the disabled.
 Two inspections last year turned up 36 fire-safety violations, a senior emergency services official, Sergei S. Salov, said in televised remarks. He acknowledged that not all the violations had been resolved and that the owners -- the regional social welfare department -- had been fined 20,000 rubles, about $770.
 ''The alarm system was incomplete,'' Mr. Salov said. ''The personnel did not have equipment to protect against smoke. The bedrooms' wooden panels were not made flame resistant.''
 Marina A. Loskutova, an official in Yeisk, the largest nearby town, said in a telephone interview that she was unaware of any fine.
 Russia's deputy emergency services minister, Lt. Gen. Aleksandr P. Chupriyan, said in a recent interview that the country's fire services had begun to reduce the frequency and fatality of fires in recent years by acquiring modern equipment and improving training. Still, he said, the country had yet to adopt a culture of fire safety and responsibility.
 ''We have become Russia,'' he said in the interview, conducted before the latest fire, ''but we have carried with us the baggage from the Soviet Union.''
 The cause of the fire was not immediately announced. Of 35 people who escaped, at least 30 were hospitalized, some with serious injuries. The dead ranged in age from 46 to 86, Ms. Loskutova said.
 Among them was a 58-year-old nurse, identified as Lidiya Pechentseva, whom officials praised for helping some patients escape before succumbing herself.
 The toll exceeded that of a fire in a police headquarters in Samara in February 1999 that killed 57 people, according to the daily newspaper Kommersant, which had listed that fire as the worst in Russia's history.
 Last December, a fire in a drug-rehabilitation hospital in Moscow killed 46 people, mostly patients. Many of the victims were trapped behind locked doors and windows, meant to keep them from fleeing treatment.
 In the latest case, officials also criticized a guard on duty overnight, saying he ignored two initial fire alarms apparently because he was outside the building and then delayed calling the authorities for 21 minutes.
 ''Instead of informing the fire department about the tragedy and emergency, he shut off the gas, began calling his bosses and informed the nurses and medical personnel,'' Yuri R. Nenashev, the head of the country's fire inspection department, said in televised remarks. ''Only after this,'' he added, did the guard call the authorities to report the fire.
 A volunteer fire department at a local collective farm was closed last year. The closest fire station was in Yeisk, more than 30 miles away. It took nearly an hour for firefighters to arrive. A resident, identified as Pavel Babenko, complained about the closing. He said people had then plundered the old station and stripped the fire engine of anything valuable.
 ''No one cares about anything,'' he said on Rossiya, a state television channel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fire department investigators worked in a room at the home yesterday. Many of those who died were confined to their beds and unable to flee. (Photo by Alexander Blotnitsky/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
Graves were dug at a local cemetery yesterday after at least 62 patients and staff members died in a fire at a home for the elderly and disabled in the village of Kamyshevatskaya. Safety violations and a night watchman's negligence were blamed for the high death toll. (Photo by Eduard Korniyenko/Reuters)Chart: ''Fire-Related Deaths''The death rate due to fire is nearly ten times higher in Russia than in the United States. Officials blame substandard buildings, minimal fire safety measures and social factors like smoking and drinking. Chart tracks deaths per millions people, since 2003 for the U.S. and Russia.(Sources by Russian Ministry of Emergency Services
Russian Statistics Committee
U.S. Fire Administration
 Census 2000)Map of Russia shows the location of Kamyshevatskaya. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (91%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HOME SECURITY (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); SMOKING (77%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); COAL MINING (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (59%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (59%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (54%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (50%) Nursing Homes; Fires and Firefighters; Mines and Mining; Accidents and Safety; Explosions; Airlines and Airplanes; Smoking and Tobacco; Nursing Homes; Alcohol Abuse

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%) Steven Lee Myers; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Russia; Kamyshevatskaya (Russia)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



458 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Edwards's Energy Plan Proposes a Cap on Heat-Trapping Gases

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NEVADA, Iowa, March 20 

 BODY:
Saying global warming is an international emergency, John Edwards called on Tuesday for a cap on the emission of heat-trapping gases and stricter standards on automobile emissions. 
 ''This is not a threat about the future; this is a crisis today,'' Mr. Edwards said here, 30 miles north of Des Moines, at a research center for converting agricultural products into fuel and other chemicals as he outlined an energy plan in his quest for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008. ''There is a direct link between our addiction to oil and our national security.''
Rejecting suggestions that steps like limiting heat-trapping gases would hurt the economy, Mr. Edwards said sites like the conversion center could lead to an energy-driven economy that could create up to a million jobs.
 ''Energy not only cannot be a hindrance to the America economy,'' he said, ''it can be the fuel for the American economy.''
 His plan sets these goals: 
 Capping emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide beginning in 2010 and cutting them 15 percent by 2020.
 Drafting a global warming treaty that includes developing nations.
 Creating an energy fund by selling $10 billion in greenhouse pollution permits and end $3 billion in subsidies for big oil companies. 
 Aiming to freeze electricity demand over the next decade and produce 25 percent of power from renewable sources.
 Mr. Edwards, a former North Carolina senator and the Democratic vice-presidential nominee in 2004, said he would also set a goal of raising fuel efficiency in automobiles to 40 miles a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); AGRICULTURE (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); JOB CREATION (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (65%) Weather; Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%) John Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



459 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Asks Agencies To Propose Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration warned its agencies this week that they might have to cut 1.5 percent from their budgets for this fiscal year and 4 percent next year because of a slowdown in the national economy, volatility in the stock market and a tentative labor agreement with city firefighters. 
 The cuts would also apply to the district attorney's office in each of the five boroughs, as well as the offices of the city comptroller and the public advocate. Only the Department of Education would be spared. 
Though it is not unusual for the administration to ask its agencies to reduce costs in tight budgetary times, this request comes as the city is basking in an economic glow that has defied national trends. 
 The city has projected a $3.9 billion budget surplus this year and a $1.4 billion surplus for 2008. Earlier this year, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a one-year, $750 million cut in property taxes and $250 million in other tax cuts. 
 ''Although the city's economy has done quite well over the last three years, prudence would suggest that we recognize that the good times do not last forever and plan accordingly,'' Mark Page, the mayor's budget director, wrote in a letter sent Monday to the agency heads about the potential cuts. 
 Mr. Page asked each of the heads to submit proposals by March 28 showing how they would make the cuts. He said the cuts could include personnel reductions, but should have no impact on services to the public. 
 Some on the City Council speculated that the letter might simply be a negotiating ploy on the part of the mayor as he and Gov. Eliot Spitzer battle over the governor's proposed budget. Mr. Page warned the Council earlier this month that the governor's budget would lead to an $862 million shortfall in the city budget. 
 But Stu Loeser, a spokesman for the mayor, said the request was ''common practice to adjust for changing budget expectations.'' 
 For example, the firefighters' tentative contract, reached earlier this month, would add $20 million to the city's budget this fiscal year and $60 million next year if the same contract terms are extended to the other uniformed services, as usually happens in labor talks, Mr. Loeser said. 
 Still, coming in flush times, the letter caught some budget watchers by surprise. 
 ''As of now, there's no indication of tax revenue starting to weaken,'' said Doug Turetsky, chief of staff of the city's Independent Budget Office. ''But the I.B.O. and others have projected that an economic slowdown is going to come in the next few months, and the mayor may want to make sure that all the options for securing the city's ongoing budget balance are in place.'' 
 The Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, and his fellow district attorneys from the other boroughs were sharply critical of the possible cuts yesterday. They would come on top of other cuts the district attorneys' offices have experienced since 2003. 
 While crime is down, arrests and caseloads for prosecutors are up, which would make additional cuts hard to bear, they said during a Council Public Safety Committee budget hearing yesterday. 
 ''The budget director's looking to see every day what the stock market is doing, and that is a waste of time,'' Mr. Morgenthau said. ''He should be watching what's going on in the streets of New York.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); TAX LAW (72%); TRENDS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (65%) District Attorneys; Comptrollers

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Ray Rivera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007



460 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: For Some Subprime Borrowers, Few Good Choices

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Myriam Philemond says she knew almost from the start that she and her husband could not afford the nearly $500,000 house they bought in South Boston more than a year ago.
 After falling behind on payments in July, she is considering whether to turn the house over to her mortgage company because she cannot refinance and modifying her loan will not help. ''We are stuck with a house that we can't afford,'' she said.
As problems with subprime mortgages have escalated, officials on Wall Street as well as in Washington have urged lenders and the government to step in and cushion the blow to troubled borrowers and find ways to enable them to remain in their homes.
 That may not be possible in many cases. 
 Like Ms. Philemond, some will not be in a position to keep their homes because the properties they live in -- bought during the boom in housing prices -- are no longer worth what they paid. Some properties may be worth still less because the price was previously overstated. Many borrowers' incomes, which were often not verified, are insufficient to cover house payments, taxes, home insurance and other requirements.
 ''There is no way they can keep their homes,'' Lillie Searcy, executive director of the Mattapan Family Service Center, said about borrowers like Ms. Philemond, whom she has been helping. ''It's impossible.''
 And in an unusual twist, the process of packaging and reselling home loans to investors -- known as securitization, which has provided much of the cash that fueled subprime lending -- has also made it harder to modify debts that go bad.
 At the end of last year, more than 2.6 million home loans were either past due for more than 30 days or in foreclosure. About 40 percent of them were made to people with weak, or subprime, credit. Most economists predict that the number of troubled loans will continue to rise this year as more mortgages are adjusted to higher interest rates and home prices decline further.
 Last year, more than 37 percent of subprime loans were made without verification of borrowers' incomes, up from 15 percent in 2000, according to an analysis by JPMorgan Chase. Also, a third of borrowers took out a second mortgage, up from 6.8 percent in 2003, suggesting that they did not have enough money for a down payment.
 For these borrowers, the best alternatives, according to some housing specialists, may include short sales, in which a lender accepts a sale for less than what is owed on the house, or a deed in lieu of foreclosure, where a lender takes ownership of a house instead of full payment of the mortgage.
 Rising default rates have thus far had a modest impact on the overall economy, but economists fear that the problems could intensify if a broader range of borrowers, including those with stronger credit, start falling behind on payments. A big increase in the number of homes for sale, because of rising foreclosures, would put more pressure on prices and limit home buying and consumer spending. 
 The Senate Banking Committee will hold a hearing on problems in the subprime market today in Washington. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the committee's chairman, has suggested that the federal government may need to bail out homeowners in trouble, and some housing advocacy groups are calling for a moratorium on foreclosures.
 Ms. Philemond, a receptionist, and her husband, who owns a sign business, have made several payments to try to catch up on past-due payments, but they are still thousands of dollars behind. She is unsure that they will be able to pay off the money overdue, let alone make the regular $3,800 monthly payments on two mortgages. The interest rate on her primary mortgage, now 6.99 percent, will become adjustable early in 2008, making the payments even higher.
 Ms. Searcy said it appeared that the couple's income had been overstated on the mortgage application by brokers who had helped them buy the house and get a loan from WMC Mortgage, a unit of General Electric. 
 WMC said that it had granted Ms. Philemond the loan because the information on her application indicated that she and her husband had income of more than $100,000 a year, savings exceeding $60,000 and had a tenant.
 This month, the company restricted the use of loans in which borrowers state their income without verification.
 A spokesman for General Electric's finance division, Robert J. Rendine, said, ''The industry is becoming aware that because of the stresses that we are seeing, issues like this are being exposed.'' Loss mitigation efforts by mortgage lenders and government subsides, to be clear, can help borrowers and limit losses. But experience thus far suggests that a more concerted and coordinated effort will be needed. It may also require a change in the policies governing what can be done with securitized loans. 
 To increase a borrower's chance of making required payments, lenders can do things like lowering interest rates on the loans, waiving past-due payments and fees, and extending the periods in which low teaser rates apply to loans.
 But the options vary greatly, based on who owns the mortgages. Generally speaking, loans held by the banks that made them in the first place can be modified most easily. Loans that have been securitized are typically subject to greater restrictions, according to the terms on which they were sold to investors. Payments made by borrowers whose loans have been securitized are collected and processed by mortgage servicers.
 According to a Bear Stearns analysis, half of all mortgage securities that make up a widely followed index allow the servicer to modify the interest rate, principal balance or maturity of a loan; 40 percent allow some modifications but require approval from a ratings agency if more than 5 percent of a pool of mortgages is changed, and 10 percent of loan pools allow no changes. About half of all modifications are successful at preventing foreclosures, according to the investment bank.
 The restrictions are intended to protect investors against tampering with the cash flow generated by the loans. But in times of greater distress, investors prefer modifications that let them continue earning a return rather than having the property foreclosed, a costly process.
 ''You will see a greater willingness to work with borrowers,'' said Gyan Sinha, a senior analyst who follows the subprime market for Bear Stearns.
 Much of the revamping will start occurring once investors sell off or write down the value of the loans to account for decreases in home prices and the delinquent status of the loans, said Stan Ross, chairman of the Lusk Center for Real Estate at the University of Southern California. Some borrowers may find that they can stay in their homes if the value is written down enough.
 ''You mark the asset down to current value,'' Mr. Ross said, ''then you look at the borrower and say, 'Is this the borrower that will repay me?' ''
 But housing counselors and lawyers who have worked on behalf of borrowers say their experience suggests that is not yet happening.
 They say that many servicers are unwilling to discuss modifications until loans are at least three months past due, a point when many borrowers are in deep financial trouble. Also, servicers are often unwilling or unable to make big enough changes to account for inflated appraisals and income levels that were used in underwriting the loans.
 ''Some of them take hundreds and hundreds of hours'' of work and negotiations, said Diane Thompson, a lawyer at the Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation in East St. Louis, Ill. ''It seems to me that is a terrible waste of our resources. It would be much better if the bad loans were never made, and if they were made, we would get people to accept responsibility for them.''
 Officials at some big mortgage servicers declined to discuss their practices, but an executive at Wells Fargo, which services the seventh-largest subprime loan portfolio, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication, says it has taken an active approach.
 Mary Coffin, executive vice president for servicing at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, said the company repeatedly warns borrowers about coming interest rate changes, gives them access to loss-mitigation specialists before they are delinquent for 90 days, and refers them to financial counselors if they need such help.
 ''The sooner that we work with them, the more success we will have,'' Ms. Coffin said. She also asserted that the company did not make loans that allowed customers to put little or no money down, which she acknowledged were a lot harder to modify or refinance because the owners typically had no equity in their properties.
 Consider Andrew D. Sobel, a 48-year-old in San Diego, who took out two mortgages to buy a $240,000 condominium in 2004 and is now facing its sale for $175,000. He could not afford higher monthly payments that took effect in September, when his loan was converted to a variable interest rate. Countrywide, which services his loan, would not agree to modify the loan but was willing to accept the short sale. He could not refinance because the home is worth less than what he owes on the property.
 ''There was never any effort to try to keep me in my home,'' he said.
 More borrowers may find themselves in a similar situation in the next two years as the first interest rate adjustments take effect on loans in 2004 and 2005. Those who continue to have spotty credit and little equity in their homes will be at the greatest risk because many lenders are no longer offering no-money-down mortgages to people with weak credit.
 ''If someone calls and says they want do a 100 percent loan,'' said Jeff Jaye, a mortgage broker in San Jose, Calif., ''my antenna goes up. My first question is 'What's your credit score?' ''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lillie Searcy, head of a family center in the Mattapan section of Boston, tries to help homeowners in trouble. (Photo by Erik Jacobs for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Subprime Woes''Delinquencies among subprime borrowers are rising fast . . .Graph tracks percentage of mortgages 30 days or more past due or in foreclosure (subprime and all loans) since 2000.. . . accounting for more than half of all troubled mortgages.Graph tracks subprime mortgages 30 days or more past due or in foreclosure since 2000.Share of all mortgages 30 days past due or in foreclosure that are subprime'00: 8%'01: 9'02: 12'03: 16'04: 31'05: 34'06: 40(Source by Mortgage Bankers Association)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); SECOND MORTGAGES (73%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); FAMILY SERVICES (71%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (69%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Foreclosures; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing; Housing

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%)

PERSON: Christopher J (Sen) Dodd; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



461 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Text of the Fed's Statement

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 5 1/4 percent.
Recent indicators have been mixed and the adjustment in the housing sector is ongoing. Nevertheless, the economy seems likely to continue to expand at a moderate pace over coming quarters. 
 Recent readings on core inflation have been somewhat elevated. Although inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time, the high level of resource utilization has the potential to sustain those pressures.
 In these circumstances, the committee's predominant policy concern remains the risk that inflation will fail to moderate as expected. Future policy adjustments will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Cathy E. Minehan; Frederic S. Mishkin; Michael H. Moskow; William Poole and Kevin M. Warsh. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (56%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); KEVIN WARSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



462 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: A Rapid Rebound: Chinese Stocks Set Record

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, March 21 

 BODY:
After a huge sell-off here just a few weeks ago that helped set off a drop in global financial markets, China's stock market has rebounded and rose to a record Wednesday.
 Many investors say the sell-off on Feb. 27, when the Shanghai composite index plunged 8.8 percent, was simply a temporary setback in a galloping bull market.
 After that drop, which pushed the index down to 2,771.79, share prices plunged around the world, including a 416-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average in New York. 
 But instead of retreating from the volatile market, investors in China have seen the setback as temporary and eagerly opened new stock accounts, rushed to sign up to purchase mutual funds and aggressively bid up the shares of Chinese companies.
 The Shanghai composite index rose 25.19 points Wednesday, to 3,057.38, a record. The Shenzhen component index reached 8,400.30, also close to a record.
 ''The market is promising in the long run,'' said Cao Zitao, an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities in Shanghai. ''Since the economy is doing well, there's no doubt the stock market will continue to grow over the next year or two.''
 With China's economy booming and stock prices soaring, those left out of the boom now appear to be climbing into the market, buoying share prices.
 Investors here have repeatedly ignored warnings from government officials and financial experts that share prices may be rising too fast or that a bubble may be emerging in shares.
 China had the world's best-performing stock market last year, with the benchmark Shanghai composite soaring 130 percent in 2006. Now, just two and a half months into 2007, share prices are already up 14 percent in Shanghai and more than 26 percent in Shenzhen.
 The rise in many ways mirrors the blistering pace of economic growth in this country, which has forced the government to raise interest rates several times in recent months in the hope of cooling things off. With corporate profits strong, some analysts said they could see no economic factors that would deal a severe blow to the market here.
 But some analysts see parallels with the sharp rise and subsequent collapse of technology stocks in the late 1990's in the United States. In 1999 alone, the Nasdaq composite rose 85.6 percent. By March 2000, it reached a record that stands to this day. But that all came crashing down in spectacular fashion over the following few months. There were tentative signs of a rebound, but ultimately it never recovered. The Nasdaq closed at 2,455.92 on Wednesday, about half the value of its 2000 record.
 Unreasonable expectations about stock prices, like those that characterized the technology boom, can wreak havoc on markets once those expectations go unfulfilled, said Todd Salamone, director of research for Schaffer's Investment Research. Mr. Salamone said similar expectations seem to surround the Chinese markets Wednesday.
 ''In the '90s when the Nasdaq went on that tear, investors began chasing the returns,'' Mr. Salamone said. ''Then your everyday investor catches wind of that, begins pouring money in, and the sector becomes vulnerable to major disappointment because expectations have risen so dramatically. The price action in China has created a stampede into that market, and it is in those instances where a sector or a region becomes extremely vulnerable.''
 Some analysts also worry that a slowdown in the United States could pose problems since China's economy is so heavily dependent on trade with the United States and Europe.
 For now, though, share prices are rising so fast that the nation's regulators are worried that heavy trading volumes could destabilize the brokerage system.
 Along with investors, Chinese entrepreneurs and brokerage houses are reaping huge rewards from the market gains and from hot initial public stock offerings in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
 Indeed, the market is so hot that regulators here recently barred companies from raising money on the stock market and then plowing those proceeds back into shares, including investing in initial public stock offerings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese investors have shrugged off the 8.8 percent one-day plunge on Feb. 27 and have resumed pouring money into the stock market. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BONDS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: GUOTAI JUNAN SECURITIES CO LTD (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%) EAST CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



463 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Markets Soar After Remarks From Fed

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street rallied sharply yesterday after the Federal Reserve raised investors' hopes that it had warmed to the idea of lowering short-term interest rates.
 After triple-digit gains yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average has surged 337 points this week, its best three-day performance since November 2004.
The Fed, as expected, left short-term interest rates unchanged at 5.25 percent at the conclusion of its two-day meeting. But investors, who nervously awaited the economic statement that accompanies the Fed's decision, were encouraged that the central bank had not referred to the possibility of ''additional firming'' of rates as it did in January. 
 Instead, policy makers said ''future policy adjustments'' will depend on inflation and growth -- more neutral language that the market interpreted as opening the way for a possible rate cut.
 The Dow soared 159.42 points, to 12,447.52, after having been flat until the Fed announcement. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 24.10 points, to 1,435.04. The Nasdaq advanced 47.71 points, or 1.98 percent, to 2,455.92. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 13.87 points, or 1.75 percent, to 807.47.
 Light crude oil settled up 36 cents, at $59.61 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange after a government report showed that United States gasoline stocks fell more than analysts had expected.
 The Fed's reflections calmed Wall Street's growing unease about worldwide economic growth, which helped set off a Feb. 27 sell-off and a 416-point drop in the Dow. The Dow is now 185 points, or 1.5 percent, lower than it was just before that plunge.
 With yesterday's decision, the Fed has left short-term interest rates, the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, unchanged for six consecutive meetings after raising it 17 times in a row starting in 2004.
 The rally suggested that the market sees the statement as ''less hawkish'' on the part of the Fed, said Sean Simko, head of fixed-income management at SEI Investments.
 ''Although I believe that they're going toward that direction, I think their statement isn't a clear signal that they're there yet,'' he said. ''They have to remain data-dependent. If they take their inflation bias off, they risk losing their credibility.''
 While most of Wall Street's attention yesterday was squarely on the Fed, a few earnings reports also drew interest. Morgan Stanley's fiscal first-quarter earnings and revenue blew past Wall Street's estimates. FedEx's fiscal third-quarter earnings came in stronger than expected, but the company warned that profits in the coming fiscal year could fall below its expectations.
 Morgan Stanley rose $5.22, to $81.33. FedEx fell $1.30, to $110.99.
 Software companies showed gains. An acquisitive Oracle indicated that its expansion plans might be reaping dividends as its fiscal third-quarter earnings and new software sales topped Wall Street's expectations. Oracle advanced 62 cents, to $18.17.
 Adobe Systems rose $2.56, to $43.30, after the company reported first-quarter results that beat Wall Street's expectations and also increased its profit forecast.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about five to one on the New York Stock Exchange after being nearly even before the Fed's announcement. Volume came to 1.63 billion shares, up from 1.46 billion on Tuesday.
 The price on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 100 22/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.54 percent, from 4.55 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); GASOLINE (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (64%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (60%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); SEI INVESTMENTS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (60%); SEIC (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



464 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: When the Boss Is Last in Line for a Paycheck

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
It's been a long time since Michelle Madhok has received a weekly paycheck. In 2004, when she started SheFinds.com, an online shopping publication, she thought she could pay herself a regular salary. But she quickly realized that was not how it worked when you become an entrepreneur.
 Ms. Madhok, who is based in New York, had to put in about $20,000 of her savings, including stock and severance she received from AOL, to finance her venture. And all the money SheFinds generated, which wasn't a lot during those first few months, had to be pumped back into the business, so that meant she had to live on whatever savings she had left.
It took about six months for the business to begin generating income and she was able to pay herself back the $20,000. In 2005, the company took in $300,000 in revenue and today Ms. Madhok pays herself about $10,000 once a quarter, but that's dependent on how the company is doing, she added. 
 ''If I was still a corporate gal I'd be making more than $150,000 a year in stock and bonus,'' Ms. Madhok said. ''But I really don't feel deprived. This business is my passion.''
 One of the most difficult questions for entrepreneurs when they take the plunge into their own business is what to pay themselves when they start out, if they pay themselves at all. 
 Gone are the boom-boom days of the late 1990s and early 2000s when newly minted small-business owners found themselves with hefty paychecks and carte blanche from investors, said Robert Chelle, director for the Crotty Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership at the University of Dayton.
 ''During the dot-com craze when there was all kinds of money and not a lot of value creation, it was easier to overpay yourself,'' Mr. Chelle said. ''Now, with a more constrained economy, there's a notion we have to prove ourselves before we start to overpay ourselves.''
 Indeed, Mr. Chelle added, people who start small businesses should not expect any money that first year. ''So many things could go wrong and capital is dearly critical in the start-up phase,'' he explained.
 Still, it is not all doom and gloom. If a business generates money right out of the gate, or the owner is able to secure venture capital, some specialists say there is nothing wrong with an owner taking a paycheck. But there are limits.
 Dennis Miller, general partner of Spark Capital, a Boston-based venture capital firm that focuses on new media and technology, says early-stage business owners can expect to make $150,000 to $200,000 during their first year. But he stressed that the salary is predicated on many factors, including the type of product or service the business provides and the past success of the entrepreneur.
 Because the majority of start-ups do not obtain venture capital to bankroll their businesses, most small- business owners should expect way less when they open their doors, explained Andrew Corbett, professor of entrepreneurship and strategic management at the Lally School of Management and Technology at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y.
 If the business has started to generate some income, the best way to calculate what to pay the owner, Mr. Corbett advised, is to figure out what the job is worth on the open market.
 ''You want to be true to yourself and to the firm so you don't want to overpay yourself and you don't want to shortchange yourself,'' he added. 
 That means looking at what you do day to day and putting your job in one or several categories, for example, sales executive, product developer or general manager. ''Calculate how much time you're working and how much time is spent on each role. Your salary should reflect the work you do.'' Ask what it would cost to hire someone else outside of the business to fill that role, he suggested.
 The formula he offered includes paying the owner a 30 percent premium over what the open market would pay to cover health benefits and another 20 percent to 30 percent more for the risk. So if a manager or product developer with comparable skills is making $100,000 a year in salary, and that's mainly what the entrepreneur will be doing, she can expect to pay herself $150,000 to $160,000 a year, Mr. Corbett suggested.
 If the entrepreneur errs on the side of taking too much money out, it may end up rattling investors or vendors, said Jerry Mills, founder of B2B CFO, a company in Phoenix that provides small and medium-size businesses with chief financial officer services.
 Investors and banks, he explained, want to see a certain amount of equity in a company before they take a chance on giving a business owner money. And vendors who give a line of credit or merchandise may also worry about the owner's ability to keep up with bills if a chunk of the firm's capital is drained for salary.
 In the last fives years, he said, he has seen a significant change in vendors' attitudes. Some are asking to see company financial statements quarterly and many are paying more attention to how much cash is in the coffers.
 Mr. Mills said one of his retail clients, for example, started taking too much money out of his business and ended up upsetting a vendor. The vendor, who was giving him $1 million worth of appliances and was expecting to be paid back within a certain time, asked for a quarterly financial statement and found that the owner's salary had jumped to $300,000 from $200,000 in one year. The vendor called the loan and the business owner ended up filing for bankruptcy, he said.
 Brian Goss, founder and chief executive of Onsite Videos, a company in Boston that offers a service allowing companies to put a moving image of a person on Web sites, knew he and his partner, Dmitriy Peregudov, would have to bypass a salary for a few months when they started their venture in April 2006. 
 The goal was to start paying themselves by last summer, especially with Mr. Goss planning a wedding and Mr. Peregudov paying a mortgage.
 But the company wasn't generating enough sales so the partners decided to bring in an investor that summer who bought less than 10 percent of the company but gave them enough money to begin paying themselves late last year. 
 ''We got to the point where we needed at least some sort of paycheck,'' he explained. The company made $100,000 in sales in 2006 and he expects to bring in over $2.5 million this year.
 Mr. Goss and Mr. Peregudov now pay themselves $1,000 to $5,000 a month each, depending on cash flow, and plan to focus on keeping as much money as possible in the business. ''We'll never increase our salary, just increase our bonuses,'' Mr. Goss said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michelle Madhok said she could be making $150,000 a year in the corporate world. As owner of SheFinds.com, she earns about $40,000. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (77%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (71%) Small Business; Wages and Salaries; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON (59%) University of Dayton; SheFinds.com

PERSON: Eve Tahmincioglu; Robert Chelle; Michelle Madhok

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



465 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Fremont Selling $4 Billion of Its Subprime Loans

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Fremont General, which is seeking a buyer for its subprime mortgage unit, said yesterday that it would sell $4 billion of subprime mortgages, reducing its exposure to the risky loans. 
 The sale will result in a $140 million pretax loss, less than investors expected, and its disclosure helped push up shares of the company, based in Santa Monica, Calif., by 16 percent, to $10.19. Broad stock indexes advanced strongly yesterday.
The share price of another California lender to people with poor credit histories, Accredited Home Lenders Holding, of San Diego, closed up 11 percent, to $11.96, after a second hedge fund in two days reported a sizable equity stake.
 Fremont said it expected to complete its loan sales in the next several weeks and received $950 million in cash from a first installment. It did not identify the buyers. The projected loss reflected that the loans were priced around 97 cents on the dollar.
 A Fox-Pitt, Kelton analyst, Matt Howlett, commented that ''it's a huge positive and a big step toward exiting the subprime business.'' 
 As of Sept. 30, Fremont had $5.54 billion of loans for sale on its balance sheet, and $5.96 billion held for investment. All its assets totaled $12.8 billion.
 Subprime lenders are struggling amid rising delinquencies and defaults. Many financial companies are selling their subprime units, and more than two dozen have gotten out of the subprime business in the last year. Share prices have slid, attracting some bargain hunters.
 The Citadel Investment Group, a roughly $12 billion Chicago hedge fund that was created by Kenneth C. Griffin, said yesterday that it took a 4.5 percent stake in Accredited. On Tuesday, Accredited said it had received a $200 million loan from a San Francisco-based hedge fund, Farallon Capital Management, which has a 6.9 percent stake.
 Last Friday, Accredited said it would take a $150 million pretax charge for selling $2.7 billion of its loans at a discount. The charge suggested that the loans were priced at roughly 94 cents on the dollar.
 Fremont has stopped making residential loans and has hired Credit Suisse to help sell its subprime unit, Fremont Investment and Loan. It has notified some of the unit's 2,400 employees that they would lose their jobs on May 18.
 Fremont has also said it would comply with an order by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation barring it from risky lending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (97%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACCREDITATION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (59%); FOX-PITT KELTON INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (54%) Fremont General Corp; Accredited Home Lenders; Citadel Investment Group

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



466 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: Japan Society Celebrates Its Centennial While Mending Its Fences

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
You've lost your president, gallery director, executive vice president and education director along with several other pivotal staff members. Your exhibition schedule looms empty. Disaffected donors have stopped giving. What better time to celebrate your 100th anniversary?
 Those were the circumstances facing the Japan Society -- a venerable New York institution founded to foster relations between the United States and Japan -- as it geared up for its 2007 centennial festivities, now under way.
''We had a year or two that was not what we would have liked it to be,'' David W. Heleniak, a society trustee and a vice chairman at Morgan Stanley, said in an interview. ''The board didn't always feel it understood some of the program initiatives. That problem is gone.''
 Frank L. Ellsworth, a former president of Pitzer College in Claremont, Calif., resigned as president of the society last April after a tumultuous two-and-a-half-year tenure. Several trustees and staff members complained of an authoritarian leadership style, his cancellation of exhibitions, changes in budget allocations and other moves that prompted the departures of longtime staff members, including the society's gallery director, Alexandra Munroe, and its executive vice president, John Wheeler. 
 ''My ultimate belief in the institution made me stay a lot longer than I should have,'' said Mr. Wheeler, who had been with the organization for 26 years. ''The situation was untenable because of the leadership.'' 
 Mr. Ellsworth declined to be interviewed by telephone. Questioned by e-mail, he said he was just trying to fulfill his mandate, which was ''to strengthen the internal organization, programs, and develop a long term fund-raising program for Japan Society, as well as bring the financial planning into fiscal responsibility.'' 
 ''Yes, there were personnel changes,'' he said, ''some expected and some unexpected during the first two years.'' 
 In May the society named a successor, Richard J. Wood, 69, a former Yale divinity school dean who speaks Japanese and previously led an organization that promotes a Christian presence in Asian university education. ''There are still a lot of scars from the last three years,'' Mr. Wood said. ''People either quit in high dudgeon or were fired. You're talking about close to 20 years of institutional memory.'' 
 Carol Gluck, a Japan expert and Columbia University historian who sits on the society's board, said she felt that Japan Society was getting back on track. ''We've been through a rocky period,'' she said, ''but we've come out the other end.''
 Yet beyond the internal conflicts, the society has been wrestling with even broader philosophical questions about its role in a changing world. Given the gradual ebb in Japan's economic and political clout over the last 20 years, is the society's mission less relevant? With China and India rising in importance and the Asia Society, another New York institution, already devoted to the entire region, can the Japan Society still command a following?
 The institution asserts that the proof lies in its strong programming, which includes film and dance, language courses and conferences for business and foreign policy executives. Somehow, amid the turmoil and the stock-taking, it has come up with a yearlong centennial celebration featuring art exhibitions, live performances and lectures. Today a double bill of two 14th-century Noh plays reinterpreted by Takeshi Kawamura opens at Japan Society's East 47th Street headquarters; ''Awakenings,'' an exhibition of Zen figure painting in medieval Japan, opens Wednesday. 
 ''This is a 100-year-old organization,'' said Daniel Rosenblum, the Japan Society's vice president for global affairs. ''We've been through World War II. We've been through a lot of change. But we're in a good place now.''
 Several trustees and current and former staff members said Mr. Ellsworth was a mismatch for the institution because he had limited knowledge of Japan and spoke no Japanese. (Half the board is Japanese) 
 ''He made some grievous mistakes,'' said Rand Castile, the founding director of the Japan Society's gallery from 1971 to 1985 and director emeritus of the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco. ''You need to understand what is happening culturally, socially. In terms of fund-raising, you need to know a lot about Japan.'' 
 In an e-mail message Mr. Ellsworth countered that he has broad university experience in setting up language and other education programs involving Japanese culture. 
 But for many the biggest sticking point seemed to be his cancellation of exhibitions. Among them were one about contemporary Japanese residential architecture planned by the writer Naomi Pollock and one centering on the women in the classical 11th-century ''Tale of Genji,'' co-planned by the independent scholar Julia Meech.
 Mr. Ellsworth said of shows in the pipeline, ''There was no way we could fund them all over a five-year period.'' 
 Ms. Meech said she hoped that a successor to Ms. Munroe, who departed in April 2005, would be appointed soon. ''The biggest problem is there is no director,'' she added. ''The exhibitions they do -- that is their public face. The exhibition schedule has been notably absent.''
 Mr. Wood said he hoped to fill the post by the end of the month. 
 By the time Mr. Ellsworth departed last April, the exhibition situation was dire, Mr. Wood said. ''In the world of art this is really pretty horrendous,'' he said. ''It's May 1. There is no show for September.''
 To help bridge the gap Mr. Wood called two friends, Alice and Halsey North, to ask if a show featuring their collection of Japanese ceramics at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston could travel to the Japan Society. The Norths had been active Japan Society members but had become alienated under Mr. Ellsworth's tenure. ''He didn't make you feel welcome or involved or appreciated,'' Mr. North said. ''Dick has reached out his arms and brought people back in.''
 The exhibition arrived last September and closed in January. 
 Mr. Ellsworth said he determined that $350,000 to $500,000 was the amount that could be raised from foundations until the society could build up donations from individuals. 
 But Mr. Wood said this limit was unrealistic. ''He wanted to put the gallery on a very, very restricted financial diet,'' he said. ''I don't know when the last show we did cost less than half a million, but it was years ago.'' 
 All the same, Mr. Wood said he agreed that the exhibitions program should rein in some long-established ''expensive habits,'' like custom-building every show and producing costly catalogs. ''I would like the gallery to be more disciplined about its budget,'' he said, adding that shows should average about $750,000, for example. The Zen show that opens next week cost $1.2 million, and the society has raised $1 million toward it in sponsorships and other donations, Mr. Wood said.
 James S. McDonald, the society's chairman, emphasized that the board has approved financial appropriations with its eyes open. ''The board has voted to spend everything that has been recommended,'' he said. ''We've been attentive to financial details.''
 The society, which has an operating budget of about $10 million, tries to spend just 5 percent of the market value of its $92 million endowment but has exceeded that limit in four of the last five years, Mr. Wood said, adding that trustees wanted to keep to the 5 percent limit. 
 Mr. Heleniak, the trustee and Morgan Stanley executive, said, ''We are very focused on making sure we keep costs in line and increase revenues.'' Mr. Wood said he hoped to expand the endowment to $100 million by May 2008, when he plans to step down.
 Mr. Wood was a Fulbright Fellow at Waseda University in 1968 and studied Japanese language and philosophy. He was the founding chairman of the U.S.-Japan Bridging Foundation and serves on its board as well as the board of the Japanese-American National Museum.
 ''For us the challenge is to make the case that the relationship with Japan is still important,'' he said.
 There has been talk over the years about a possible merger with the Asia Society, but many argue that the Japan Society's identity should not be subsumed. ''Asia Society deals with Asia from Iran to the Pacific,'' said Ms. Gluck, who also serves on the Asia Society board. ''That's Asia in the most broad and inclusive definition possible. Japan Society is focusing on Japan and the U.S. in a global context.''
 ''I actually think we need more associations dedicated to Asia and knowledge of Asia than we have now,'' she added. ''Not fewer.''
 Others argue that the society should focus more on Japanese popular culture, like comic books and anime. In the near term the society plans three exhibitions of contemporary art. ''Making a Home,'' featuring the work of 33 contemporary Japanese artists living in New York, including Yoko Ono and Ushio Shinohara, opens on Sept. 28. A show on Japanese anime is scheduled for spring 2008, followed by a weaving exhibition in the summer. ''What has emerged is a real fascination with Japanese pop culture -- Japan's 'gross national cool,' '' said Christopher Hill, the director of undergraduate studies in the department of East Asian Language and Literatures at Yale University. ''That's a very different kind of image than the Japan Society has been about.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard J. Wood, above, president of the Japan Society. At right, ''Portrait of Mokuan Shuyu'' (1373), a hanging scroll that is part of the society's ''Awakenings,'' an exhibition of Zen figure painting in medieval Japan. Below, Momoyo Torimitsu (in a nurse's uniform) with her robotic sculpture, ''Mr. Jiro Miyata.'' Ms. Torimitsu is one of 33 artists featured in the forthcoming exhibition ''Making a Home: Japanese Contemporary Artists.'' (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
(Photo by Kanai Morio/Kyoto National Museum)
 (Photo by Michael Dames)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HISTORY (72%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Japan Society; Japan Society

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Robin Pogrebin; Frank L Ellsworth; Richard J Wood

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



467 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Oversize Mudrooms Tame the Clutter at the Door

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
IN planning the renovation of her Sherman Oaks, Calif., kitchen, Lynne Lainer knew above all what she didn't want: her two sons' backpacks and soccer shin guards cluttering her kitchen counters, and the family's cell phones and personal organizers plugged into all the outlets so that there wasn't even room for a toaster. Her architect responded by offering an increasingly common solution: an extension that, when the renovation is completed this summer, will accommodate cubbies, a built-in storage bench and charging stations and will provide a proper transition between the garage and the rest of the house. On the floor plan, the 9-by-12-foot space is called a mudroom, but Ms. Lainer doesn't really think of it like that.
 ''It's Southern California -- it barely rains,'' she said, adding that in any case an overhang between the garage and the mudroom door will eliminate all contact with the elements. ''There will be no mud in the mudroom,'' she said. ''I just call it the room where we will channel all our crap.'' 
As American houses become larger, less formal and more child-centric, the lowly mudroom is finally having its day. In its new incarnation, it is not some dark corner of the laundry room or a bench in the garage but -- thanks partly, perhaps, to the example of long-time mudroom champion Martha Stewart -- a full-fledged room, often decked out with hardwood floors, crown molding, windows and a computer or security station. Stephen Melman, the director of economic service for the National Association of Home Builders, said that a survey of architects done by the organization last summer found that the mudroom was taking on increased importance in new construction, especially since the laundry room is now often being put on the second floor, near the bedrooms. 
 ''Architects are telling us that all upscale homes'' -- at least those built in the last two or three years -- ''have transition rooms,'' he said, using one of the terms that has replaced ''mudrooms'' in some parts of the country. And when something becomes popular in high-end houses, he added, ''we expect it to start migrating to average-price homes,'' especially those with primarily open floor plans, which need some kind of space where clutter can be organized and stored. 
 Particularly in the South and arid West, these rooms may be called transition stations, commuter stations, or friends-and-family entrances, but they all share a common purpose: connecting the side or garage entrance to the house, usually by way of the kitchen, and offering cubicles or lockers for each family member in a cheerful, highly organized space reminiscent of a preschool classroom. In the Northeast and Midwest, where winters are predictably slushy, there has always been the need for space to store coats and muddy boots before entering a home. But until only a few generations ago, most Americans had so few possessions that they could fit all their outerwear and outdoor equipment into the closet under the stairs in the front hall, or, in the case of certain New England houses, a tiny box-like vestibule that juts out from the front door. 
 ''It's the proliferation of things that has been the major historical change,'' said Virginia McAlester, an architectural historian in Dallas and an author of ''A Field Guide to American Houses.'' 
 ''Every decade the amount of stuff people have to store has gone up,'' she said. Of course, not all early mudrooms were compact or utilitarian, or even at the front of the house. 
 ''The earliest mudroom I recall seeing was at the Edsel Ford estate in Maine that Martha Stewart now owns,'' said Pauline Saliga, executive director of the Society of Architectural Historians. ''It contains a sink and is adjacent to a large walk-in refrigerator to store all your freshly cut flowers.''
 In the postwar years, as the carport became the most frequently used entrance for many Americans, the mudroom moved from the front to the back of the house. But it is only recently, as the average house has increased to palatial proportions, that the typical mudroom has approached the scale of the 15 1/2-by-9-foot one on the Ford Estate. Michael Medick, vice president of architecture and planning at John Wieland Homes and Neighborhoods, which builds some 1,600 homes in the Southeastern states each year, said that the company began getting requests for more attractive garage entrances in the larger homes it was building about eight years ago.
 ''What you had was these homes with big, grand entrances, but the owner was hitting the remote and coming through the three-car garage,'' he said. ''So the rich foyer began migrating to the back of the house with the idea, let the owner enjoy some of this.'' To that end, architects, builders and the people they're working for are focusing on comfort and elaborate detailing in mudroom design. Hope Suttin, 40, a homemaker in Newton, Mass., said she had two priorities for the house her family built in 2004: a kitchen large enough to eat in and a mudroom. The 8-by-14-foot mudroom she got -- which has Jerusalem stone on the floor, cabinets by Country Craftsman, benches with upholstered cushions and hanging wire racks with sliding mud trays for wet shoes and boots -- ''was an integral part of the construction, not an add-on,'' she said.
 Even less visible mudrooms, like the 5-by-15-foot space tucked into a corner of the back foyer of Tracy Schaffzin and Greg Odland's house in Chappaqua, N.Y., are becoming fancier. Theirs has blond wood shelving and a bluestone tile floor with radiant heat. Kira McCarron, a marketing executive with Toll Brothers Inc., which builds about 6,000 upscale homes every year, said most of the company's clients expect new homes to come with mudrooms, and are increasingly demanding customization for specific needs. ''One family particularly wanted a dog shower put in,'' she said.
 As high-end mudrooms proliferate, they are generating envy among the have-nots. Julie Plaut Mahoney, a sociologist and mother of two children in Newton Center, Mass., said she began joking to friends about coveting a mudroom for her town house after she picked up her daughter from a playdate at a house that had a particularly beautiful one with ''beadboard and tons of light and tons of hooks.'' But soon she was serious about building one. 
 ''We don't lead a fancy life,'' she said. ''But somehow we have six coats apiece, and we do put a value on an orderly home.'' Construction is about to begin on Ms. Plaut Mahoney's mudroom, which seems to be bringing her peace of mind already. 
 ''There is status to having a mudroom,'' she said, ''because there is a status for a mom who works and has kids and can keep things calm. And a transition space contributes to calm.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: STASH SPACE -- Julia Odland, above left, uses her family's mudroom to change shoes
cabinets and hooks keep Liana Suttin's things in order, above right. Lynne Lainer plans to replace her laundry room, right, with a mudroom. (Photos by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times, above
Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times, left)
 (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SOCCER (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%) Housing

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%) Leslie Kaufman

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



468 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Fed Weighs Words About Its Next Move

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve, implicitly acknowledging hints of trouble in the economy, edged away Wednesday from previous signals that its next move on interest rates would be up.
 To no one's surprise, the central bank left the overnight Federal funds rate at 5.25 percent, a level unchanged since last June.
 But for the first time since it stopped raising rates, the Fed omitted a signal of its bias toward raising rates rather than lowering them. Investors reacted with relief, only three weeks after global stock markets were embroiled in turmoil. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 159 points, or 1.3 percent, within minutes of the Fed announcement and stayed at the level, erasing nearly all of its losses for the year so far. Bond prices jumped and bond yields declined on hopes of lower interest rates.
 But the reaction may have been overly exuberant. Even as the Fed hinted at a more open mind about future rate increases, it seemed bent on discouraging hopes of cheaper money anytime soon. Indeed, it injected a new note of urgency about rising prices, calling them the ''predominant'' concern and expressing worry that inflation might prove more intractable than policy makers thought. 
 In the past, the Fed has said that ''additional firming'' -- meaning rate increases -- would be decided on the basis of the evolving economic outlook. 
 On Wednesday, it simply referred to ''future policy adjustments,'' which could mean rate increases or decreases. That was enough for investors to celebrate, with speculators in the Fed futures market putting the likelihood of a rate cut in June at 50 percent. 
 But the central bank's Federal Open Markets Committee actually expressed more concern about inflation on Wednesday than it did after its last policy meeting on Jan. 31.
 It noted that readings on inflation have been ''elevated,'' a shift from its view in January that measures had ''improved modestly.'' 
 More pointedly, policy makers expressed a worry that inflation might prove more stubborn than the Fed's game plan had assumed. ''The committee's predominant policy concern remains the risk that inflation will fail to moderate as expected,'' the Fed said in a statement accompanying its announcement to leave rates unchanged. 
 If anything, that was grimmer than previous statements that ''some inflation risks remain.'' Instead of implying that its job was nearing completion, the Fed statement suggested that the job might not be going according to plan.
 ''We can't fathom how anyone could interpret the comments as a fundamental change in Fed thinking toward a neutral stance,'' wrote Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, a forecasting firm in Princeton Junction, N.J.
 A more likely interpretation is that Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, recognized signs of trouble in the housing market and wanted to give the Fed more room to maneuver. 
 The Fed's announcement highlighted the contradictory moves of the economy itself, which has provided evidence of both slowing economic growth and stubbornly persistent inflation. It also offered a clue about how central bank obfuscation will work under Mr. Bernanke, who succeeded the notoriously ambiguous Alan Greenspan as Fed chairman last year. 
 Mr. Bernanke favors openness and straightforward language more than Mr. Greenspan. But at a time when the economy could easily defy conventional wisdom, Mr. Bernanke devised a statement that left ample room for future rate increases as well as rate cuts.
 The domestic economic expansion has slowed markedly in the last year to well below what economists consider the nation's potential growth rate of 3 percent a year. 
 Economic growth fluctuated from 2 to 2.6 percent in the last three quarters of 2006, much slower than the pace in 2004 and 2005. Many economists estimate that growth for the first quarter of 2007 will be about 2 percent as well. 
 But inflation continues to run higher than the Federal Reserve's unofficial ''comfort zone'' of 1 to 2 percent a year. Wages are climbing faster than productivity, and the wage component of production is rising.
 In February, the Consumer Price Index jumped by 0.4 percent and was 2.4 percent higher than 12 months earlier. The core rate of inflation, which excludes the volatile prices of energy and food and which Fed officials consider a more accurate gauge of underlying trends, was up 2.7 percent. 
 Perhaps the biggest wild card for Fed officials is the housing market, where new construction has plunged and where acute problems among subprime mortgages for people with comparatively poor credit have prompted worries about the broader mortgage market and about the economy.
 For the moment, Fed officials appear to think that the problems of subprime borrowers will inflict little damage on the broader housing market or the overall economy. 
 Still, the central bank's tone was grimmer on Wednesday, implicitly acknowledging the implosion among top subprime lenders like New Century Financial. 
 Where the Fed saw ''tentative signs of stabilization'' in the housing market in January, on Wednesday it merely said that ''the adjustment in the housing sector is ongoing.''
 Mr. Bernanke has been more optimistic about the economic prospects than Mr. Greenspan. Speaking last month to private conferences of investors, Mr. Greenspan cautioned that the United States was now in the sixth year of an economic expansion and that such times often produced the seeds of a downturn. 
 In an interview with Bloomberg News last month, Mr. Greenspan rated the probability of a recession in 2007 at about one-third -- more bearish than the Fed or most investors. 
 Mr. Bernanke, by contrast, told a Congressional hearing in February that the economy had slowed slightly, but was likely to pick up speed by this summer. The Federal Reserve's consensus forecast -- an amalgam of predictions by individual Fed governors and the regional Fed banks -- anticipates that the economy will expand at an annual pace of about 3 percent in the second half of the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BONDS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FUTURES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



469 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
MOTOROLA EXPECTS LESS EARNINGS Motorola sharply revised its earnings estimates for the first three months of the year, dropping its revenue projections by a billion dollars for the quarter. The company also announced a management shake-up. [Page C1.] FED IS COY ON NEXT MOVE The Federal Reserve edged away from previous signals that its next move on interest rates would be up, implicitly acknowledging hints of trouble in the economy. It held the overnight federal funds rate steady. 
[C1.] NEW RULES FOR F.D.A. ADVISERS Expert advisers who receive money from a drug or device maker would be barred for the first time from voting on whether to approve that company's products under new rules announced for the F.D.A.'s powerful advisory committees. [A1.] AVOIDING A DEFAULT For many homeowners with subprime mortgages facing foreclosure, the options are few. [C1.] SUBPRIME LENDER MAKES A SALE Fremont General said that it would sell $4 billion of subprime mortgages, reducing its exposure to the risky loans. The sale will result in a $140 million pretax loss, less than investors expected, and its disclosure helped push up shares of the company, which is based in Santa Monica, Calif., by 16 percent. [C10.] LIFE AFTER 'SOPRANOS' Before too long, ''The Sopranos'' will be history, and HBO will have to carry on without its signature show. The channel's chief executive has been preparing for this denouement for many months. [C1.] SAFETY OF ANEMIA DRUGS A Congressional committee looking into the safety and regulation of anemia drugs has requested information from Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, the drugs' marketers. [C2.] PROFIT SLIPS AT FEDEX FedEx said that profit fell 2 percent in its most recent quarter as a result of a slowing economy, severe winter storms and lower fuel surcharges. [C9.] STOCKMAN MAY BE CHARGED David A. Stockman, who served as President Reagan's first budget director, is expected to be indicted on charges of accounting fraud related to his role as chairman of Collins & Aikman, an auto parts supplier. [C3.] SPOTLIGHT ON A PET FOOD GIANT The manufacturer of the pet food that has been linked to the deaths of more than a dozen animals, Menu Foods, is little known because it lacks its own brands. But over the last few years, it has come to dominate the business of making wet pet food for retailers. [C4.]JOURNALISTIC CHILL IN MOSCOW The editor in chief of the Russian edition of Forbes magazine was found guilty of defamation in a dispute over an article about a business run by the wife of the mayor of Moscow. A city court in Moscow ruled against the editor, Maksim V. Kashulinsky, above, not for the contents of the article, but for commenting in a radio interview on the controversy surrounding its publication. [C4.] MARKETING VIA CELLPHONE Publishers and other content providers are paying attention to studies that show that mobile Internet use is on the rise, as is acceptance of advertising carried on mobile devises. Advertising. [C2.] INVESTORS LIKE FED'S SIGNALS Wall Street rallied sharply, with the Dow closing up 159 points, after the Federal Reserve raised investors' hopes that it had warmed to the idea of lowering short-term interest rates. [C12.] WHAT SELL-OFF? China's stock market, rebounding since a huge sell-off a few weeks ago, rose to a record. [C12.] HACKERS AND SPORTS FANS The N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament draws millions of fans to log on to their computers -- often at work -- to check scores and the status of their brackets. It is also drawing the attention of computer security experts, who say major sporting events become targets for computer hackers seeking high-profile hits. [D5.] BLACK MARKET IN DOCUMENTS Federal immigration authorities are investigating a growing underground business that provides undocumented workers with bona fide documents, stolen or bought by traffickers from actual Americans. [A1.] GOOD DAY AT MORGAN STANLEY The day's news out of Morgan Stanley -- quarterly earnings that outpaced competitors and a victory in the firm's appeal of a $1.57 billion jury verdict against it -- reflects on John J. Mack, the chief executive approaching his two-year anniversary. [C3.] ONLINETHE EXECUTIVE PAY PACKAGE Coverage of executive pay packages and interactive features are in a special section on executive pay at nytimes.com/business.MANAGING GLOBALIZATION Daniel Altman, the International Herald Tribune's global economics correspondent, offers a look at the day's news with an eye to how companies are coping with globalization. His blog is at blogs.iht.com.Business BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.BRUCE WASSERSTEIN, the chairman of Lazard, is considering selling his stake in ALM, publisher of American Lawyer Magazine and other legal publications. In a statement, Wasserstein & Company said it had hired the Credit Suisse Group to advise it in ''in exploring various strategic alternatives'' for its investment in ALM, including a possible sale of the company. (NYT)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Fremont General shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PET FOODS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PET FOOD MFG (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ACCOUNTING (71%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); INDICTMENTS (67%); ANEMIA (64%); VERDICTS (62%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); AMGEN INC (57%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (56%); COLLINS & AIKMAN CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (66%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (52%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (85%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (85%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



470 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1860 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Worker, Troubled Citizen and Stolen Name

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Margot Williams contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa 

 BODY:
The two women named Violeta Blanco have never met. But for a long time they shared not only a name, but the same birth date and the same Social Security number. 
 One is an illegal immigrant from Mexico who went to work slicing pork in a meat-packing plant here after her husband left her with three children. The other is a single American mother in California who has never held a job, struggles with drug addiction and is fighting to keep the state from taking her children.
With little in common but their shared identity, the two women are unwittingly linked by an illicit trade that is the focus of a new federal crackdown on illegal immigration. Detained in a recent raid on the Iowa plant, the Mexican worker admitted that she had used the California woman's identity to get her job. Now she is in jail on felony charges of identity theft, her trial set to begin in Des Moines on Monday.
 Immigration raids at six Swift & Company meat-packing plants in six states in December, as well as more recent sweeps in Michigan, Florida and Arizona, have exposed an expanding front in the underground business that caters to illegal immigrants looking for work, officials say. 
 As the authorities have aggressively prosecuted employers for hiring undocumented workers, companies are examining applicants more carefully, and fake documents no longer pass inspection as easily as they did. Illegal immigrants have turned increasingly to bona fide documents, stolen or bought by traffickers from actual Americans. 
 With scrutiny tightening, illegal immigrants ''invest more effort and money into getting better documents,'' said Julie L. Myers, the top official at Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ''More and more, that includes taking on the identities of U.S. citizens and legal immigrants.''
 The case of Violeta Blanco, 31, of Bakersfield, Calif., and the woman in Iowa who used her name, Eloisa Nunez Galeana, 32, provides a rare view of the new identity trade through hard lives on both ends. 
 On one side is an immigrant who is eager to work and who says she never thought she could be stealing from a real person; on the other is an American down on her luck who says she does not know how her personal information came to be exchanged on the black market. 
 Interviewed in jail in Des Moines, Ms. Nunez said she used Ms. Blanco's documents -- which she had purchased from a woman she did not know -- in 2003 to apply for her job at Swift, but that she never used them again. 
 She had hoped to work at the plant for many years, she said, perhaps long enough to see her children, who range in age from 2 to 15, graduate from high school (two were born in Iowa and are American citizens).
 ''I was innocent when I came from Mexico,'' said Ms. Nunez, a petite, round-faced woman who said she was devastated to find herself in a criminal lock-up. ''But they don't give you a job so easily anymore. To get honest work, you need good documents.''
 While Ms. Nunez worked at the Swift plant pushing sides of pork into a saw that sliced off the fat, Ms. Blanco was in her hometown of Bakersfield leading a life teeming with trouble. She had been in rehabilitation to shake an addiction to the drug known as PCP. She had lost custody of her children to the state child welfare authorities, and then had regained it. 
 As a result, Ms. Blanco said she was distracted and paid little attention to letters three years ago from the Social Security Administration ordering her to report the employment income showing up under her number. She had never been close to taking a job.
 ''I don't know the person, but I'm upset,'' Ms. Blanco said of Ms. Nunez. ''I think she could get more benefit from me, from my identity, than I could from her. ''A Market for Authenticity
 Of 1,282 illegal immigrants detained in the Swift raids, the majority were charged with civil immigration violations and quickly deported. But federal prosecutors brought identity-theft charges against 148 of the workers.
 Court papers show that the accused did not use stolen documents to loot bank accounts or credit cards, the primary crimes that identity-theft laws seek to attack. Instead, they used the birth certificates and Social Security cards to get jobs. 
 Still, Matthew C. Allen, the senior investigations official at Immigration and Custom Enforcement, said that 326 Americans had reported financial complications and tax liabilities from having their identities used at Swift. ''The victims have suffered very real consequences,'' Mr. Allen said.
 At Swift, the workers had Social Security contributions and other taxes deducted from their paychecks, but they did not file tax returns. The Social Security taxes accumulated in the accounts of the real owners. Because the documents were real, Swift managers were not alerted to any irregularities by the Social Security Administration, and no charges were brought against the company in connection with the raids.
 Traffickers have devised several ways to meet the demand for authentic documents. Along the Mexican border, immigration officials said, muggers and pickpockets have learned that selling stolen documents to black market vendors can be less risky than a shopping spree with a stolen credit card. 
 Some Americans willingly sell their documents. 
 In Corpus Christi, Tex., this month, seven people pleaded guilty to selling their birth certificates and Social Security cards for as little as $100 for both. In another recent case, immigration officials said, an employee of a Michigan state employment bureau sold confidential identity information from state records to illegal immigrants seeking jobs.
 A significant number of documents purchased by the immigrants here belonged to Americans, like Ms. Blanco, who were born and lived in Bakersfield, 115 miles north of Los Angeles. A number of those Americans lived at one time within blocks of each other in the same Latino neighborhood in Bakersfield, though at this point there is no explanation as to how their documents wound up on the black market.
 Traffickers apparently sold and resold the documents in several places. Many of the identities found in Marshalltown, including Ms. Blanco's, had also been used by immigrant workers in Green Forest, Ark., and Milwaukee, Wis. Neither Ms. Nunez nor Ms. Blanco has ever been to either place, they said.
 Ms. Nunez said she was reluctant to use identity documents that did not belong to her, but she said she did not know that she could be committing a federal offense, since buying documents was routine among illegal immigrants here. Real Documents for $800
 She said she first came to Iowa a decade ago, joining a sister and brother who were both longtime legal residents married to United States citizens. Despite her family ties, no legal work visa was available for Ms. Nunez, or for many other Mexican and Central American immigrants who flocked to Marshalltown in recent years, drawn by the jobs at Swift. 
 Ms. Nunez said that after her third child was born, her husband, who was also Mexican, abandoned the family. She put out the word that she needed a steady job. Friends told her that fake documents would not be good enough to apply at Swift because the company's vetting was thorough. 
 Before long, a Mexican woman she did not know knocked on her door. Ms. Nunez said she paid the woman $800 for official copies of Ms. Blanco's birth certificate and Social Security card. 
 The Marshalltown Swift plant, which employs 2,220, was always hiring, and Ms. Nunez went to work at the standard starting wage of $11.50 an hour. The work was wearing, she said, but the pay was good.
 ''The line moves fast, and they want the work well done,'' said Ms. Nunez, speaking Spanish (she does not speak English). ''After a while, I was on top of it. I did it because I had to.''
 The immigration agents who raided the plant on Dec. 12 released many of the illegal immigrants who were single parents. Ms. Nunez was among the exceptions. 
 Maria Barajas, Ms. Nunez's sister who lives 20 miles from the plant, said Ms. Nunez called her from jail, ''nervous, crying, her voice was shaking.''
 Mrs. Barajas, who has two sons of her own, has been taking care of Ms. Nunez's children. The two oldest have grown up attending Marshalltown public schools; the youngest is 2. To support them, Mrs. Barajas said she had taken a job at Swift. 
 At the mention of her children during an interview in Des Moines, Ms. Nunez, hunched in a gray-and-white striped jail uniform, began to cry.
 ''I risked everything so they could grow up in the United States,'' she said. ''I'm only asking for permission to do honest work.'' 
 Ms. Nunez and several other immigrant women detained in the Iowa raid who have children who are American citizens say they have resolved to fight the charges against them rather than make a deal with prosecutors that would lead to their deportation with no chance of legal return.
 ''She's a mother who cut my pork chops and gave Social Security a lot of money,'' said Michael H. Said, a lawyer representing Ms. Nunez. ''She deserves a medal, not an indictment.''
 In a similar the case, a Des Moines jury this month disagreed. Lorena Andrade Rodriguez, 34, an illegal Mexican immigrant working at Swift, was convicted of identity theft on March 7. Ms. Andrade is appealing the verdict.
 ''I'm not a bad person,'' she said. ''My record is clean. My only mistake was to do hard work in someone else's name.''Tracing a Name to Its Source
 In Bakersfield, Ms. Blanco cast a glance around her disheveled bungalow, clogged with crates of toys and clothes, and admitted there were many ways her documents could have slipped away. She said she did not sell them.
 ''I mean, I'm not organized,'' said Ms. Blanco, who lives on Social Security payments for a psychological disability. ''I just throw stuff here, throw stuff there. Or I'm not here, stuff has been stolen. Or I moved. Most of it was that stuff got lost when I moved around.'' 
 Ms. Blanco also said her purse had been stolen several times by one of her sons. Iowa court records show that replacements for Ms. Blanco's Social Security card were ordered 20 times over the last decade. Ms. Blanco said she could not remember requesting all the new cards.
 She said that her father was a convicted cocaine dealer and one of her sons was arrested for assault when he was 9, and now, three years later, lives in a juvenile home. She has been arrested for petty theft, assault and drug use, and was once sentenced to three months in jail.
 Waving a file of wrinkled papers that she keeps in a cellophane bag, she said that Ms. Nunez's employment under her name was only a small part of problems she attributed to identity theft.
 She said she had difficulty renewing her driver's license because someone else using her identity had taken out a license in Arkansas. A bank where she tried to open an account told her that it already had one in her name in another state -- not Iowa.
 ''I know that when I get ready, I'm going to get everything all filed up, and I'm going to try to take care of it,'' Ms. Blanco said. ''I don't know how, but I'm going to try.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Barajas cares for the children of her sister, Eloisa Nunez Galeana, whose trial is to begin on Monday.
The identity of Violeta Blanco, 31, left, was used by Ms. Nunez, 32, at far right, shown with Mrs. Barajas.
A Swift & Company meat-processing plant in Marshalltown, Iowa, was one of six raided in December
1,282 illegal immigrants were detained. (Photographs by Sally Ryan for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (96%); IMMIGRATION (95%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); REFUGEES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); COUNTERFEITING (74%); FELONIES (73%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%) Immigration and Refugees; Identity Fraud; Foreign Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Meat; Immigration and Refugees

COMPANY: SWIFT & CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Swift & Co

INDUSTRY: SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (69%)

PERSON: Julia Preston; Violeta Blanco; Eloisa Galeana Nunez

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (91%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (72%) IOWA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



471 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Thousands of Iraqis Who Flee to Kurdish Region to Escape War Face Harsh Living Conditions

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Kirk Semple and Qais Mizher contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, March 21 

 BODY:
About 160,000 Iraqis from outside the mountainous Kurdish north have moved there to flee a growing civil war, according to a draft of a report by an international group that tracks refugees and displaced people.
 That number is the first comprehensive figure for internal flight to Iraqi Kurdistan that has been released by any organization. It is also far higher than partial estimates previously disclosed by Kurdish officials.
The draft report, by Refugees International, which is based in Washington, says the Iraqis who have fled north face harsh living conditions. Inflation is rampant, and outsiders have few decent job opportunities. 
 Little aid is available for those or other internally displaced Iraqis, because the Iraqi and United States governments, as well as the United Nations, have failed to acknowledge the extent of the crisis, the report said.
 The report's number of 160,000 displaced Iraqis in Kurdistan is based on estimates by the Iraqi Red Crescent Society. 
 Government statistics have been difficult to come by. Last August, the chief security officer for Sulaimaniya, the largest city in eastern Kurdistan, said that about 1,000 Arab families had moved into the Sulaimaniya area and that thousands more families had settled in other parts of the Kurdish north. The officer, Sarkawt Hassan Jalal, said most of the migrants were Sunni Arabs.
 Two researchers for Refugees International recently conducted a two-week survey of conditions in Iraqi Kurdistan and found that ''many of the internally displaced are struggling to survive, the victims of inattention, inadequate resources, regional politics and bureaucratic obstacles,'' the report said.
 The movement of Iraqis within and outside their homeland has produced the world's fastest-growing populations of refugees and internally displaced people. The United Nations estimates that two million Iraqis have fled the country, which has a population of 26 million. 
 According to United Nations figures, 727,000 have been displaced within the country since the bombing of a revered Shiite shrine in February 2006 set off waves of sectarian violence. The Iraqi Ministry of Displacement and Migration says about 470,000 displaced people have been officially registered with the government since the fall of Saddam Hussein, though that figure is almost certainly an undercount.
 The movement is mostly driven by sectarian killings and intimidation taking place in mixed Sunni Arab and Shiite Arab areas.
 Many Iraqis have fled to the Kurdish north because of the relative safety there. Iraqi Kurdistan maintains a formidable militia that guards its borders. Also, the economy of Iraqi Kurdistan is believed to be growing faster than that of the rest of Iraq.
 Iraqis moving to the north must pass through security checkpoints and provide the name of a Kurdish guarantor. Arab Muslims generally have a tougher time getting in than Kurds or Christians. Single Arab men have an especially hard time.
 Iraqi Kurdistan has enjoyed de facto independence since 1991, when the American military established a no-flight zone over the area to prevent incursions by Mr. Hussein's forces. Kurds are generally suspicious of or hostile toward Arabs because of attempts by Mr. Hussein, a Sunni Arab, to wipe out entire swaths of Kurdistan. 
 Many Kurds favor secession from the Arab part of Iraq, but Kurdish leaders are wary of the international outcry that the move would provoke, especially from Turkey, Iran and Syria, which fear that it could encourage separatism among their own significant Kurdish populations. 
 The Refugees International report said Kurds from outside Kurdistan did not necessarily have an easy time moving into the region. Kurdish officials prefer that Kurds living in mixed areas like Kirkuk and Khanaqin remain there, so that the Kurdish regional government will later be able to make a legitimate claim on those places, the report said. 
 The Iraqi Constitution says the province of Kirkuk, which is rich in oil reserves, must hold a popular referendum by the end of 2007 to determine whether it will be governed by Kurdistan.
 Christians have had an easier time moving into Iraqi Kurdistan than Muslims, the report said. ''Christians going to Dohuk receive financial assistance from the Kurdistan regional government of $85 per month, as well as land in their villages of origin and assistance to build houses,'' the report said. The region's finance minister is a Christian.
 Over all, displaced people ''who reach the Kurdish provinces must surmount difficulties in finding housing, shelter, employment and education for their children,'' the report said. That conclusion was reached based on interviews conducted by the two researchers, Kristele Younes and Nir Rosen. 
 Families that have moved from their original residences cannot get monthly food rations from the government, under a system started in the 1990s during the United Nations oil-for-food program. The children of displaced families often cannot enroll in schools, and few schools have classes taught in Arabic. Rents in urban areas have skyrocketed.
 The report recommends several ways to help alleviate the problems. It said that the United States and the international community should take urgent steps to ease the lives of the displaced and that the Iraqi government should devise a new ration card system that would allow people to receive food and fuel in their new locations.
 In Mosul, where Arab-Kurd tensions are high, a car bomb exploded Wednesday at the headquarters of a Kurdish political party, killing and wounding at least 25 people, officials said. 
 The police in Baghdad found 33 bodies across the capital, and at least two civilians were killed in separate incidents. A mortar attack in Salman Pak, southeast of Baghdad, killed at least four Iraqi civilians and wounded seven, the American military said. In Ramadi, west of Baghdad, a concealed bomb killed a civilian and wounded five, the military said. In Diyala Province, an Iraqi soldier was killed outside his house.
 Earlier this week, members of the Mahdi Army, a powerful Shiite militia, killed the mayor of Wasit, a town south of Baghdad, bringing reprisals by the mayor's tribe, police officials said. Tribesmen killed three of the militia's gunmen, and the Mahdi Army on Wednesday threatened attacks in the provincial capital of Kut, the police said.
 Lt. Col. Christopher Garver, an American military spokesman in Baghdad, confirmed a report by the Pentagon on Tuesday that insurgents had put two children in the back seat of a car loaded with explosives to get the car through a checkpoint in Baghdad. An unknown number of Iraqi civilians were hurt or killed when the car exploded, including the children, Colonel Garver said. 
 Ahmed al-Shaibani, a top aide to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, was released Wednesday by the American military, at the urging of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. Mr. Shaibani was arrested in the summer of 2004 during a Sadr-led uprising in Najaf.
 Meanwhile, beneath a bright sky, thousands of residents of Baghdad celebrated the first day of spring, a holiday called Nowruz, by going to the zoo.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Children had fun yesterday at an amusement park in the southern Iraqi port of Basra during the celebration of Nowruz, a new year and start-of-spring holiday celebrated by many Kurds, Iraqis, Iranians and Afghans. (Photo by Atef Hassan/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISPLACED PERSONS (92%); REFUGEES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (87%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (67%); STATISTICS (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TERRORISM (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) Refugees International; United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Edward Wong; Kirk Semple; Qais Mizher

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Kurdistan Province (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



472 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-15 Italian Journalist Freed In Swap for 5 Jailed TalibanAn Italian journalist who was held hostage by the Taliban in Afghanistan was ransomed for Taliban prisoners, the Italian government said. The move, criticized by Washington and London, appears to be the first time prisoners have been openly exchanged for a hostage in the recent wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. A1 Retiree Boom Threatens ChinaBy midcentury, according to United Nations projections, about a third of China's population will be retirees, a portion that will place enormous demands on the country's finances and could threaten the underpinnings of the Chinese economy. A1Democrats Anguish Over IraqAs the House of Representatives prepares to vote on a bill calling for American troops to withdraw from Iraq in 2008, an anguishing debate has played out for many Democratic lawmakers as leaders try to gather support from both the party's jittery conservative wing and from liberals who want a faster withdrawal. 
 A14 About 160,000 Iraqis from outside the mountainous Kurdish north have moved into Iraqi Kurdistan to flee a growing civil war, according to a draft of a report by an international group that tracks refugees. A14 Fighting Worsens in SomaliaFifteen people were killed as fighting broke out in Mogadishu, Somalia, between crowds and Ethiopian and Somali government soldiers. The crowds burned the bodies of government soldiers and dragged them through the streets. A3 Chirac Endorses Political RivalPresident Jacques Chirac of France, saying that he was setting aside his personal feelings for the sake of his party, endorsed his longtime younger rival, Nicolas Sarkozy, as the person best suited to succeed him. A12 U.S. to Reduce Palestinian AidThe Bush administration will reduce the amount of aid it is seeking from Congress for the security forces of the Palestinian president and will set new conditions for monitoring the funds, officials said. A6 NATIONAL A16-22 House Allows Subpoenas For Aides in Firing InquiryA House panel authorized subpoenas requiring Karl Rove and four other senior Bush administration officials to testify under oath into the inquiry on the dismissals of eight federal prosecutors. A1 Immigrants Sue Over RaidsLawyers for some of about 350 immigrants arrested this month in a raid on a leather factory in New Bedford, Mass., appeared before a federal judge, charging that the government had acted in bad faith, moving the immigrants to detention centers in Texas too quickly and denying them adequate access to lawyers. A22 Bishops Reject Key DemandResponding to an ultimatum from leaders of the worldwide Anglican Communion, bishops of the Episcopal Church have rejected a key demand to create a parallel leadership structure to serve the conservative minority of Episcopalians who oppose their church's liberal stand on homosexuality. A16 Edwards Plans AnnouncementJohn Edwards, the North Carolina Democrat making a second bid for the presidency, called a news conference for today to discuss the future of his campaign, a day after he and his wife, Elizabeth, visited Mrs. Edwards' doctor to assess her health to follow up on her recovery from a bout of breast cancer. A20Case Drains Budget in GeorgiaA multiple-murder case has drained the budget of Georgia's public defender system and brought all but a handful of its 72 capital cases to a standstill. A16 SCIENCE/HEALTHNew Rules for Drug ExpertsExperts who receive more than $50,000 from drug or device makers will no longer be allowed to serve on powerful advisory committees that vote on whether to approve those companies' products, according to rules announced by F.D.A. Commissioner Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach. A1 NEW YORK/REGION B1-7With New York Safer, Guardian Angels ExpandWhen the Guardian Angels, a citizens' watch group with a paramilitary look, was first formed, it was easy to find dangerous New York City neighborhoods to patrol. But crime has plummeted in the city, and in an act of reinvention and expansion, the Guardian Angels has extended its presence to other parts of the country. B1 City Reforms Foster CareThe Bloomberg administration unveiled an ambitious plan to move children through foster care more swiftly, with fewer moves within the system and more limited use of institutional care. B1New York to Move PrimaryA bill moving the state's presidential primary to Feb. 5 from March 4 passed both houses of the State Legislature, and with Gov. Eliot Spitzer pledging support for the idea, the measure seemed almost certain to be signed into law. B3 OBITUARIES A23Stella ChessA psychiatrist who helped develop and popularize the influential theory that children are born with distinct temperaments that can powerfully affect their outlook and relationship with their parents, she was 93. A23Bishop G. E. PattersonThe presiding bishop of the Church of God in Christ, the nation's largest African-American Pentecostal denomination, he was 67. A23ARTS E1-10 Historian Plans Clinton BookConversations between Bill Clinton and the historian Taylor Branch began when Mr. Clinton was still the president-elect and continued for eight years. Those sessions, nearly 80 in all, are the fodder for a new book by Mr. Branch, tentatively titled ''Wrestling History: The Bill Clinton Tapes,'' that Simon and Schuster plans to publish in late 2008, the publisher said. E1BUSINESS DAY C1-12 Grim Forecast at MotorolaMotorola, one of the world's biggest makers of cellphones, dropped its quarterly revenue projection by a billion dollars. C1Investors Like Fed's SignalsThe Federal Reserve, implicitly acknowledging hints of trouble in the economy, edged away from previous signals that its next move on interest rates would be up. Investors reacted with relief. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A24-25Editorials: Congress's challenge on Iraq; the much-needed return of pay-go; chemical plant safety; focus on the future in Louisiana.Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.Bridge: E8TV Listings: E10Crossword: E4Weather: B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); RELIGION (86%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (84%); REFUGEES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TESTIMONY (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); WITNESSES (66%); JUDGES (60%); BAD FAITH (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (56%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (69%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (52%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SOMALIA (93%); CHINA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ITALY (91%); ETHIOPIA (79%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



473 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Census Reports Arizona County Still Has Biggest Growth

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Paul Giblin contributed reporting from Phoenix, and Brenda Goodman from Atlanta.

 BODY:
Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix and sprawls across 9,200 square miles, swelled by 100,000 people in the year ended last July 1, according to newly released census figures, retaining its title as the county with the biggest population increase in the country.
 Maricopa, which is bigger than New Jersey, grew by nearly 700,000 people since 2000, or more than the population of all but 15 American cities. It is now home to 3.8 million. 
Nine of the 10 counties that registered the biggest population gains since 2000 were in the South or the West. Half of those with the biggest gains since 2005 were in Texas.
 Flagler County, on the Atlantic Coast in northeast Florida, grew by 67 percent since 2000, a higher growth rate than any other county. Since 2005, Georgia led the states with 14 counties among the 100 fastest-growing. ''The new suburbs were really exurbs,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution. ''In 2005-6, while this trend was still evident, fast growth was also seen in smaller-sized metros and rural areas located in the Sun Belt.''
 Mr. Frey blamed ''the bursting of the housing bubble'' for damping down rapid growth in exurbs, or outer suburbs, in some metropolitan areas. Loudoun County, Va., a Washington suburb, ranked 4th in growth since 2000, but 66th since 2005. Douglas County, Colo., dropped from 7th since 2000 to 32nd since 2005.
 New Orleans, which peaked at 627,525 people in 1960, recorded a decline from 452,170 on July 1, 2005, before Hurricane Katrina, to 223,388 on July 1, 2006, according to the latest census estimates. 
 That largely confirmed earlier calculations, although last November the Louisiana Recovery Authority reported the population at 191,000, which suggests that it might have declined even more since July. 
 Since 2005, New York City's population barely recorded any gain -- a statistically insignificant 587 people, with a steady influx of immigrants and growth in Manhattan and Staten Island. But city officials argued that the city actually grew far more, and said they would challenge the census estimates as they have done successfully in recent years.
 The Long Island suburbs continued to post modest population declines, although Nassau County's, about 6,000, was big enough to rank it 13th among the biggest losers since 2005. 
 For the first time in more than a decade, Fairfield County, Conn., also recorded a slight loss, 646 out of 900,000. 
 The population changes generally conformed to the pattern since 2000, except for the exodus in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, which struck at the end of August 2005. Among the 10 counties with the highest rate of population loss, eight were in Mississippi or Louisiana, where St. Bernard Parish declined by more than 75 percent. 
 Wayne County, Mich., which includes Detroit, lost 19,000 people since 2005, or about 1 percent of its population. The counties that include Chicago, Philadelphia, Cleveland and Buffalo also registered losses. In a number of urban counties, losses would have been greater without a continuing infusion of immigrants. 
 Except for Kendall, Ill., an exurb where population growth has been fueled by spillover from the Chicago suburbs, since 2005 the fastest-growing counties with more than 10,000 people were all in the South and the West. 
 Riverside County in Southern California drew the greatest number of domestic migrants, including transplants from Los Angeles. But, over all, the growth in Maricopa County, Ariz., was unsurpassed, fueled by retirees, immigrants -- legal and illegal -- and other newcomers.
 ''We attract a lot of those young, highly educated workers, high-tech workers,'' said Elliot D. Pollack, an economist in Scottsdale, a Phoenix suburb, ''which bodes well for us in the future, because one of the things that's important for any community in the 21st century, where with a computer and a cellphone you can be anywhere, is that it's got to be a place where people want to be.''
 He also attributed the influx to relatively affordable housing. ''Even though it's gone up a lot, it's still cheaper than most other places,'' Mr. Pollack said. 
 Also, he said, the area ''is a meritocracy in terms that nobody cares where you went to school, nobody cares who your father was. It's what can you do for the community.''
 Gwinnett County, in metropolitan Atlanta, grew by nearly 30 percent since 2000 and by about another 4 percent last year, despite a 10 percent increase in the cost of a single family home since late 2005 and a decline in building permits. 
 ''We have probably the best schools in the state,'' said Alfie B. Meek, director of Gwinnett's economic analysis division. ''We have probably the best park system. We have good transportation access. All those things combined have made us a very attractive place to live.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: An aerial view of a housing development in Fountain Hills, a suburb of Phoenix in Maricopa County, where the population has soared. (Photo by Jeff Topping)Chart: ''County Population Changes, 2000 to 2006'' shows population change in the U.S. since 2000.ArizonaLargest increase:Maricopa +695,9742006 Total Pop. 3,768,123(Phoenix metro area)TexasSecond largest increase:Harris +485,6292006 Total Pop. 3,886,207(Houston metro area)N.O.Largest decrease:Orleans Parish -261,2862006 Total Pop. 223,388MichiganSecond largest decrease: Wayne -89,3092006 Total Pop. 1,971,853(Detroit metro area)FloridaLargest percentage increase: Flagler +67%2006 Total Pop. 83,084(Erin Aigner/The New York Times)(Source by Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); SUBURBS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (66%); HOUSING BUBBLE (66%) Population; Census; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Maricopa County (Ariz); Phoenix (Ariz); Arizona

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



474 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Stepping on the Dream

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
One of the weirder things at work these days is the fact that we're making it more difficult for American youngsters to afford college at a time when a college education is a virtual prerequisite for establishing and maintaining a middle-class standard of living.
 Young men and women are leaving college with debt loads that would break the back of a mule. Families in many cases are taking out second mortgages, loading up credit cards and raiding 401(k)s to supplement the students' first wave of debt, the ubiquitous college loan. 
At the same time, many thousands of well-qualified young men and women are being shut out of college, denied the benefits and satisfactions of higher education, because they can't meet the ever-escalating costs.
 You want a recipe for making the U.S. less competitive over the next few decades? This is it.
 Traditionally, one of the sweetest periods in the lives of many college graduates has been the time immediately after leaving school, when they could relax and take the measure of the newly emerging adult world. It was a time, perhaps, to travel, or to sample intriguing employment opportunities, even if they didn't pay particularly well. Debt was not usually the overriding concern of the young graduate.
 That has changed. Along with their degree, most graduates leave college now with a loan obligation that will hover over them for years, maybe decades. Student loans have decisively overtaken grants as the primary form of financial aid for undergraduates.
 Two-thirds of all graduates now leave college with some form of debt. The average amount is close to $20,000. Some owe many times that.
 Tamara Draut, in her book, ''Strapped: Why America's 20- and 30-Somethings Can't Get Ahead,'' tells us:
 ''Back in the 1970s, before college became essential to securing a middle-class lifestyle, our government did a great job of helping students pay for school. Students from modest economic backgrounds received almost free tuition through Pell grants, and middle-class households could still afford to pay for their kids' college.''
 Since then, tuition at public and private universities has soared while government support for higher education, other than student loan programs, has diminished. 
 This is a wonderful example of extreme stupidity. America will pony up a trillion or two for a president who goes to war on a whim, but can't find the money to adequately educate its young. History has shown that these kinds of destructive trade-offs are early clues to a society in decline.
 At the state level, per-pupil spending for higher education is at a 25-year low, even as government officials and corporate leaders keep pounding out the message that a college degree is the key to a successful future.
 Ms. Draut, director of the Economic Opportunity Program at Demos, a public policy group in New York, got to the heart of the matter in her recent testimony before a U.S. Senate committee looking into higher education costs.
 ''The fundamental problem,'' she said, ''is rooted in the reality that our government no longer really helps people pay for college -- it helps them go into debt for college. The question we need to be asking is not, 'How much student loan debt is reasonable?' but, 'What is the best way to help students afford college?' '' 
 The kids who graduate with enormous debt burdens -- $40,000, $80,000, $100,000 or more -- face a range of uncomfortable and even debilitating consequences, the first of which is the persistent anxiety over how their loans are to be repaid.
 I've spoken recently with a number of law students who have already decided to go into corporate practice because their first choice -- public interest law -- would not pay enough to cover their loans. Many students have turned their backs on teaching for the same reason.
 At that stage of life, you shouldn't have to choose between a job you would love and one that you would take simply because it would pay the bills. Talk about stepping on a dream.
 There are also plenty of cases of students who have postponed marriage or buying a home or having children because of their college loan obligations.
 And then there are those who never see a graduation day. There's no way of telling what talents have been squandered, or what great benefits to society have been lost, because bright students who were unable to afford the costs have been forced to leave college, or never went to college at all.
 In a nation as rich as ours, it should be easy to pay for college. For some reason, we find it easier to pay for wars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); SECOND MORTGAGES (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Student Loans; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



475 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Gore Warns Congressional Panels of 'Planetary Emergency' on Global Warming

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Felicity Barringer reported from Washington, and Andrew C. Revkin from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
It was part science class, part policy wonk paradise, part politics and all theater as former Vice President Al Gore came to Congress on Wednesday to insist that global warming constitutes a ''planetary emergency'' requiring an aggressive federal response.
 Mr. Gore, accompanied by his wife, Tipper, delivered the same blunt message to a joint meeting of two House committees in the morning and a Senate panel in the afternoon: Humans are artificially warming the world, the risks of inaction are great, and meaningful cuts in emissions linked to warming will happen only if the United States takes the lead. 
While sparring with Representative Joe L. Barton, a Texas Republican critical of his message, Mr. Gore resorted to a simple metaphor. ''The planet has a fever. If your baby has a fever, you go to the doctor.'' He added, ''If the doctor says you need to intervene here, you don't say 'I read a science fiction novel that says it's not a problem.' You take action.''
 In the House, there was little debate about the underlying science; the atmosphere was more that of a college lecture hall than a legislative give-and-take. But in the Senate, James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, the ranking Republican on the Environment and Public Works Committee, set a pugilistic tone, challenging Mr. Gore's analysis of the dangers of climate change from hurricanes and melting ice in Antarctica.
 ''It is my perspective that your global warming alarmist pronouncements are now and have always been filled with inaccuracies and misleading statements,'' Mr. Inhofe said. 
 Beneath the carefully groomed surface of the House and Senate committees' scripted production, a rift was evident. Republican committee leaders, including Mr. Barton in the House, and Mr. Inhofe in the Senate, seemed somewhat isolated from their rank-and-file colleagues, who appeared more receptive to Mr. Gore's message and the scientific consensus on climate change. Even J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, the former House speaker, seemed to accept the scientific consensus. 
 Climate experts have concluded with growing accord that human-generated greenhouse gases are the dominant driver of recent global warming and that centuries of rising temperatures and seas lie ahead if emissions are not curbed. 
 Instead of challenging the science, many Republicans focused on questions of how to attack the problem in the United States, tending to favor nuclear power -- which Mr. Gore said should be a ''small part'' of any solution -- and asking what to do about the emissions of large developing economies like China and India.
 Senator John W. Warner, a Virginia Republican who briefly considered trying to replace Mr. Inhofe as the ranking member on the Senate's Environment and Public Works Committee, expressed concern about how to coax China into reversing its build-out of coal-fired power plants, which are heavy emitters of carbon dioxide, the most prevalent heat-trapping gas associated with global warming.
 ''When we lead, they will be a part of it,'' Mr. Gore replied, adding that two recent speeches by Chinese leaders indicate ''there's excellent evidence that they'' are concerned about the effects of climate change.
 From the time that he arrived in the morning at the Rayburn House Office Building in a black Mercury Mariner hybrid S.U.V. to the time he was whisked out of the senators' entrance at the Dirksen Building committee room, Mr. Gore combined the erudition of a professor with a touch of the preacher's fire. 
 Evoking the movie ''300,'' about the ancient Spartans' stand at Thermopylae, Mr. Gore, speaking to a joint session of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Science Committee, called on Congress to put aside partisan differences, accept the scientific consensus on global warming and become ''the 535,'' a reference to the number of seats in the House and Senate. 
 Democrats and Republicans, he said, should emulate their British counterparts and compete to see how best to curb emissions of smokestack and tailpipe ''greenhouse'' gases.
 Mr. Gore also proposed a 10-point plan, calling for initiatives like a tax on carbon emissions, a ban on incandescent light bulbs and another on new coal-fired plants that cannot be designed to capture carbon. He also called for a national mortgage program to underwrite the use of home energy-saving technologies.
 Waving his finger at some 40 House members, he said, ''A day will come when our children and grandchildren will look back and they'll ask one of two questions.'' 
 Either, he said, ''they will ask: what in God's name were they doing?'' or ''they may look back and say: how did they find the uncommon moral courage to rise above politics and redeem the promise of American democracy?'' 
 On the Senate side, Mr. Inhofe quickly hit an issue that some of Mr. Gore's critics have sounded in recent weeks -- the size and energy-consuming properties of his new home in Tennessee. Mr. Inhofe sought to exact a pledge from Mr. Gore to cut electricity use so that his home outside Nashville used no more than the average American home in a year.
 This triggered a jousting match with both Mr. Gore and Senator Barbara Boxer of California, the committee chairwoman, which ended when Ms. Boxer made a tart reference to the change in power in the Senate. ''You're not making the rules,'' she told Mr. Inhofe. 
 Mr. Gore then said he pays extra to use wind-generated electricity at the home; Mr. Inhofe took that response as a rejection of the pledge.
 When Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, asked if Mr. Gore would favor a tax on carbon emissions over a cap on emissions, accompanied by a system of trading pollution allowances, he said both were needed.
 Representative Ralph M. Hall, Republican of Texas, said calls for cuts in emissions of greenhouse gases amounted to an ''all-out assault on all forms of fossil fuels'' that could eliminate jobs and hurt the economy.
 In written testimony for the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Bjorn Lomborg, a Danish statistician and author critical of people who present environmental problems as a crisis, asserted that Mr. Gore's portrayal of global warming as a problem, and his prescription for solving it, were deeply flawed. 
 Mr. Lomborg said that ''global warming is real and man-made,'' but that a focus on intensified energy research would be more effective and far cheaper than caps or taxes on greenhouse gas emissions or energy sources that produce them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Vice President Al Gore made the rounds yesterday on Capitol Hill, testifying before the Senate's Environment and Public Works Committee and the House Science Committee. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); WEATHER (77%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%) Weather; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); JIM INHOFE (79%); JOHN WARNER (58%) Felicity Barringer; Andrew C Revkin; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); ANTARCTICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



476 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: As Catskill Casino Takes Shape, It Is Beyond One Backer's Grasp

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Stanley S. Tollman was for many years one of Manhattan's most engaging multimillionaires, a bon vivant with a bright smile, a deep South African accent and an ever-present cigar.
 He had a coveted corner table at the ''21'' Club, where he regaled politicians like former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato. He gave what was widely regarded as the best New Year's Eve party in Palm Beach, Fla., attracting celebrities and socialites like Robert De Niro and Phyllis George. He was a friend of Margaret Thatcher and slept in the Reagan White House.
But for all his travels and all his wealth, there was one dream that always seemed just beyond his grasp: to build a Las Vegas-style casino next to the Monticello Raceway in the Catskills in conjunction with the St. Regis Mohawk tribe. Now his 10-year-old dream is almost within reach, with 3,500 slot machines planned to go with 125 roulette, poker and blackjack tables. 
 But Mr. Tollman will probably never set foot inside, and he may never see a dime from the enterprise. 
 The reasons are entwined in a strange tale that says much about power, money and political connections in the long journey of the Mohawk casino.
 Mr. Tollman was indicted in 2002 as a kingpin in what federal prosecutors described as a $100 million bank fraud and tax evasion scheme involving the Days Inn hotel chain. After negotiating over his bail, Mr. Tollman failed to show up at his arraignment in Manhattan and, according to prosecutors, went on the lam. For the past four years, he has been living in a lavish London home near Buckingham Palace, fighting extradition to New York. 
 Mr. Tollman and his family still retain a stake of as much as $11 million in the company that is in line to build and manage the Mohawk casino in Monticello. But they cannot get at their stock because the authorities have effectively frozen his assets in this country. And his old company, now known as Empire Resorts, has disowned him. 
 ''He has absolutely no role in the governance of Empire,'' said David Hanlon, the company's chief executive. ''Tollman's problems, past and present, are his problems. Empire has nothing to do with them.''
 Mr. Tollman's relationship to Empire Resorts, no matter how remote today, will be fodder for opponents of gambling and rival tribes interested in casinos. More important, it will be scrutinized by regulators at the National Indian Gaming Commission this year, as they consider the final plans for the casino. 
 Mr. Tollman, 76, has said he is innocent and disputes the case against him. He claims in court documents in London that he had little day-to-day involvement in the hotel company and never made any false statements or misrepresentations to his lenders. He also objects to being labeled a fugitive by prosecutors.
 ''Stanley Tollman is a highly respected figure who was branded a fugitive when several years ago he had in fact retired at the age of 70 to live in Europe,'' his New York lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, said in an interview. 
 Yet, Mr. Tollman's friend and former partner, Monty D. Hundley, did not fare well at trial, where he and three other officers of the hotel company were convicted of charges relating to the bank fraud. Mr. Hundley is serving an eight-year prison sentence. 
 The case has also turned into a family affair. Mr. Tollman's son, Brett, pleaded guilty to tax fraud and has served time, his wife was charged with tax evasion, and the authorities tried unsuccessfully to extradite his nephew, Gavin Tollman, from Canada.
 Stanley Tollman, a courtly man who routinely dresses in a suit with a red carnation boutonniere, took a convoluted path across three continents to the Catskills. Scion of a wealthy family in South Africa, he and his wife, Beatrice, built up a travel and hotel business there before moving to London in the 1970s. In 1978, he met Mr. Hundley, a well-regarded hotel executive, and they went into business together.
 Together they built a hotel empire in the United States called Tollman-Hundley Hotels, which at its peak comprised the Days Inn of America franchise and more than 100 hotels. By the late 1980s, each man estimated his net worth at over $100 million.
 During a downturn in the early 1990s, the two men restructured many of the company's debts, signing notes making them personally liable to their creditors. Around the same time, they sold Days Inn to Hospitality Franchise Systems, or H.F.S., which later became known as the Cendant Corporation.
 Between 1993 and 1995, Mr. Tollman and Mr. Hundley together sold more than $100 million worth of H.F.S. stock as the hotels' finances improved. But instead of repaying their loans, they maintained that they were practically penniless. Prosecutors say the two men, along with several others, duped their lenders into selling the debt on the hotels for 10 cents on the dollar to supposedly unrelated investors, which were in fact puppet companies controlled by Mr. Tollman and Mr. Hundley. 
 Meanwhile, the Tollmans were shuttling between multimillion-dollar homes on Park Avenue and in Litchfield County, Conn., London and Geneva. Mr. Tollman also contributed thousands of dollars to the Republican Party and to the political campaigns of Mr. D'Amato and former Gov. George E. Pataki.
 And they knew how to give a party. In 1995, the couple flew an entire circus from Las Vegas to their waterfront mansion in Palm Beach, where guests viewed trapeze artists in pink and blue tights over vats of caviar and hogsheads of Champagne. ''People would give their eyeteeth to be invited to the Tollmans' party,'' Lou Gartner, a party guest, told Vanity Fair in 2004.
 During those heady years, Mr. Tollman and Mr. Hundley invested $35 million from the sale of their H.F.S. stock into Alpha Hospitality, which had a riverboat casino in Mississippi.
 Mr. Tollman asked a Republican fund-raiser with whom he had become friendly, Charles A. Gargano, to join the Alpha Hospitality board in 1991. Mr. Gargano said he eventually bought about $800,000 worth of stock in the company, though the board ''never had a meeting.'' 
 But Mr. Gargano said he lost about $625,000 on the stock when he was forced to sell it in 1995 after becoming the state's chief economic development official. The two men remained friendly, with Mr. Gargano joining Mr. Tollman for lunch at the ''21'' Club and on safari in South Africa.
 ''This guy was a big-deal businessman and a terrific guy,'' Mr. Gargano said.
 Aside from the money-losing riverboat, Mr. Tollman and Alpha were also active in upstate New York, where they tried unsuccessfully to convert a bingo hall into a casino on the St. Regis Mohawk reservation near the Canadian border. That is when Mr. Tollman met Robert Berman, a Catskill native who wanted to revive the resort area's economy by opening an Indian casino at the Monticello racetrack. Mr. Berman approached the Mohawks, who embraced the idea and asked him to work with Alpha Hospitality.
 ''He was a fine gentleman who sat across the table and had some very nice things to say,'' Phillip Tarbell, a Mohawk legislator, said of Mr. Tollman. 
 Mr. Tollman and Mr. Berman joined forces in 1996, and for four years they worked working with state and federal officials on the casino proposal. In the spring of 2000, the project seemed on the verge of victory when the Interior Department granted preliminary approval. But in a surprising turn, the Mohawks jettisoned Alpha Hospitality and signed a new deal with Park Place Entertainment, then the largest gambling company in the world. 
 Mr. Tollman soon learned that his friend Mr. D'Amato, then a consultant for Park Place, had helped woo the tribe away from Alpha. Mr. D'Amato later assured the Mohawks that he was pleading their case in Washington while at the same time he told Mr. Tollman that he had had nothing to do with the tribe's turnabout. 
 ''He was livid,'' an executive who worked with him at the time said of Mr. Tollman. Mr. D'Amato said through a spokesman that he could not recall much about Mr. Tollman.
 After Mr. Tollman and Mr. Hundley were indicted in 2002, Mr. Berman, eager to sever his connections to the men, reorganized Alpha and renamed it Empire Resorts. In recapitalizing the company, he gave $1.7 million in nonvoting stock to the families of Mr. Tollman and Mr. Hundley. 
 ''Stanley was a complete gentleman about it,'' Mr. Berman said. ''The guy said, 'I don't want our problems to affect you, the other partners or the employees at the track.' '' 
 As the Mohawk casino project proceeds, state regulators have said that state police investigators determined that Mr. Tollman's interest is ''sufficiently remote as to prevent any credible claim of 'ownership' or 'ability to control' '' Empire Resorts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stanley S. Tollman, 76, a hotelier living in London, is fighting extradition to New York in a fraud case. (Photo by Steve Parsons/Press Association, via Associated Press)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); GAMING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); TAX FRAUD (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CARD GAMES (74%); POKER (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (73%); EXTRADITION (71%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); MOUNTAINS (68%); INDICTMENTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (61%) Gambling; Hotels and Motels; Frauds and Swindling; Tax Evasion; Extradition; Gambling; Assets, Frozen; Indians, American; Casinos

ORGANIZATION: St Regis Mowhawk Indian Tribe; Days Inns; National Indian Gaming Commission

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (76%); ROBERT DE NIRO (55%) Stanley S Tollman; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Monticello (NY) ; New York State; Catskill Mountains; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



477 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Congress's Challenge on Iraq

 BODY:
The House of Representatives now has a chance to lead the nation toward a wiser, more responsible Iraq policy. It is scheduled to vote this week on whether to impose benchmarks for much-needed political progress on the Iraqi government -- and link them to the continued presence of American combat forces. The bill also seeks to lessen the intolerable strains on American forces, requiring President Bush to certify that units are fit for battle before sending any troops to Iraq. Both of these requirements are long overdue. The House should vote yes, by an overwhelming, bipartisan margin. 
 It is normally the president who provides the leadership for American foreign policy and decides when there needs to be a change of course. But Mr. Bush stubbornly refuses to do either, and the country cannot afford to wait out the rest of his term. Given Mr. Bush's failure, Congress has a responsibility to do all it can to use Washington's remaining leverage to try to lessen the chaos that will likely follow an American withdrawal -- no matter when it happens -- and to ensure that the credibility and readiness of the United States military is preserved. 
House Democrats have wisely moved beyond their earlier infatuation with mere deadlines. The benchmarks spelled out in this legislation, which also provides the next round of money for the war, require that the Iraqi government stop shielding and encouraging the Shiite militias that are helping drive the killing. United States and Iraqi security forces must be allowed to pursue all extremists, Shiite and Sunni, disarm sectarian militias and provide ''evenhanded security for all Iraqis.'' 
 The benchmarks also require the Iraqi government to take measurable steps toward national reconciliation: equitably distributing oil revenues, opening up more political and economic opportunities to the Sunni minority and amending the constitution to discourage further fragmentation.
 The legislation does not settle for more empty promises -- from Mr. Bush and the Iraqis. It would require the president to provide Congress, by July, with an initial detailed report on Iraq's efforts to meet these benchmarks. By October, the Iraqi government would have to complete a specific set of legislative and constitutional steps. Failure to meet these deadlines would trigger the withdrawal of all American combat forces -- but not those training Iraqis or fighting Al Qaeda -- to be concluded in April 2008. If the benchmarks were met, American combat forces would remain until the fall of 2008. 
 The measure would also bar sending any unit to Iraq that cannot be certified as fully ready. It sets a reasonable 365-day limit on combat tours for the Army and a shorter 210-day combat tour limit for the Marines. As for how many troops can remain in Iraq -- until the House's deadlines for withdrawal -- the legislation imposes no reduction on the level of roughly 132,000 in place at the start of this year. 
 Critics will complain that the House is doing the Pentagon's planning. But the Pentagon and Mr. Bush have clearly failed to protect America's ground forces from the ever more costly effects of extended, accelerated and repeated deployments. 
 If Iraq's leaders were truly committed to national reconciliation and reining in their civil war, there would be no need for benchmarks or deadlines. But they are not. If Mr. Bush were willing to grasp Iraq's horrifying reality, he would be the one imposing benchmarks, timetables and readiness rules. He will not, so Congress must. American troops should not be trapped in the middle of a blood bath that neither Mr. Bush nor Iraq's leaders have the vision or the will to halt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); TERRORISM (69%); AL-QAEDA (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%) Editorials; Law and Legislation; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



478 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: FedEx, Citing Economy, Posts 2% Profit Drop

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, March 21 

 BODY:
FedEx said Wednesday that profit fell 2 percent in its fiscal third quarter as a result of a slowing economy, severe winter storms and lower fuel surcharges.
 FedEx said profit slipped to $420 million, or $1.35 a share, from $428 million, or $1.38 a share, a year earlier. Costs for dealing with bad weather cut into profit by 6 cents a share, but that was offset by a gain of 8 cents a share related to a lower tax rate, the company said. 
The FedEx chief executive, Frederick W. Smith, said, ''The U.S. economy grew at a slower rate than expected in the third quarter, and we saw continued adjustments in the automobile and housing markets.''
 But Mr. Smith said he expected the economy to pick up, adding that ''FedEx is in excellent position to take full advantage of global economic growth trends.''
 The chief financial officer, Alan Graf, said revenue growth was less than expected primarily at the express and freight divisions because of the economic slowdown.
 ''We think we're in a little bit of a soft patch at the moment,'' Mr. Graf said. ''As we see revenue slowing, we're simply unable to adjust our cost structure quickly enough during a quarter to make up for the lost revenue, and that had a negative impact on us.''
 Revenue in the period, which ended Feb. 28, increased 7 percent, to $8.59 billion. from $8 billion a year earlier.
 FedEx warned that a slower economy could continue to affect earnings per share.
 Art Hatfield, an analyst at Morgan, Keegan, said the company's assessment of pressure on earnings from the overall economy was no surprise. ''They're just seeing things as we see them too,'' Mr. Hatfield said. ''They said they think things have slowed and they do expect them to get better sometime this summer. I think they're seeing a soft-landing scenario.''
 Dan Ortwerth, an analyst with Edward Jones & Company, said a focus on creating a flexible cost structure, increasing market share and expanding globally helps FedEx weather economic slowdowns.
 Shares in FedEx, based in Memphis, fell $1.30, or 1.2 percent, to $110.99, then dropped 14 cents more in after-hours trading.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A FedEx worker at Oakland, Calif., had plenty to deal with during the holidays. Business has slowed since. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (79%); WEATHER (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%) Company Reports ; Delivery Services

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Fedex Corp

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



479 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Chief of Collins & Aikman Is Said to Be Facing Indictment

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 21 

 BODY:
David A. Stockman, a former congressman who served as President Ronald Reagan's first budget director, is expected to be indicted on charges of accounting fraud related to his role as chairman of an auto parts supplier, people with knowledge of the matter said Wednesday.
 An indictment against Mr. Stockman, who left the company, Collins & Aikman, five days before it filed for bankruptcy protection in 2005, could be announced as soon as next week, people with knowledge of the matter said. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation, by the office of United States Attorney Michael J. Garcia in Manhattan and United States postal inspectors, was continuing. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission also has been investigating Collins & Aikman and is expected to file a civil complaint against Mr. Stockman regarding the same accounting issue, one of these people, a law enforcement official, said.
 The other individual, someone with knowledge of Mr. Stockman's defense strategy, said Mr. Stockman believed that an indictment would be an ''overcriminalization of accounting judgments.''
 The government's investigation into Collins & Aikman and Mr. Stockman centers on how revenue was reported in the financial statements from rebate programs with suppliers and whether shareholders were properly apprised of real estate transactions made by Mr. Stockman during acquisitions of other parts suppliers.
 The S.E.C. has been looking into whether Mr. Stockman hid the company's deteriorating financial condition from investors.
 Other officers and managers who served under Mr. Stockman could also face charges, these people said. It is not clear whether any of those officers still work for the company. A spokesman, David Youngman, noted that there has been ''significant turnover in our management team'' since Mr. Stockman left.
 Lawyers for Mr. Stockman, 60, met with authorities last week in Manhattan but failed to dissuade them from pursuing criminal charges, the law enforcement official said. The grand jury indictment and that meeting were first reported Wednesday by The Washington Post.
 Investigators declined to comment about the case; Mr. Stockman's lawyer, Elkan Abramowitz, declined to make a statement.
 The person with knowledge of Mr. Stockman's defense said Mr. Stockman planned to aggressively fight the charges. He disputes the assertion of the prosecutors that he engaged in fraudulent deals to increase income, this person said.
 A major part of Mr. Stockman's defense is that he, like other investors, lost large amounts of money when Collins & Aikman sought bankruptcy protection, because he did not sell his shares after board members forced him out in May 2005.
 Mr. Stockman came to Collins & Aikman in 2002, shortly after Heartland Industrial Partners, a buyout firm in Greenwich, Conn., that he co-founded in 1999, bought a controlling stake in 2001 for $260 million. 
 Under Mr. Stockman's leadership, Collins & Aikman expanded rapidly by acquiring other businesses, but it ultimately ran out of money as sales slowed for the automakers that bought its instrument panels, cabin modules and floor and acoustic systems.
 In the 1980s, Mr. Stockman was President Reagan's budget director, promoting supply-side economic policies known colloquially as Reaganomics. He nearly lost his job after privately expressing doubts about the policies to a writer for The Atlantic Monthly magazine; the article prompted Reagan to, in his words, take Mr. Stockman ''to the woodshed.''
 Mr. Stockman's political career began in 1977 when he was elected by his home state, Michigan, to a seat in the House of Representatives.
 Collins & Aikman, based in the Detroit suburb of Southfield, has closed several factories since filing for reorganization and is seeking buyers for most of its assets. In January, its chief executive, Frank E. Macher, resigned to make way for a new management structure.
 The company is trying to avoid a fine by the S.E.C. for the accounting issues under investigation. 
 ''The company has fully cooperated in the government's investigation since its inception,'' Mr. Youngman, the company spokesman, said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Stockman, a Reagan budget director, is under a cloud. (Photo by Richard Lee/Detroit Free Press, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ACCOUNTING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); ETHICS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); SALES REBATES (71%); ACQUISITIONS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (65%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Suits and Litigation; Rebates; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Real Estate 

COMPANY: COLLINS & AIKMAN CORP (90%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); HEARTLAND INDUSTRIAL PARTNERS LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Collins & Aikman Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission; Collins & Aikman Corp

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (88%) Nick Bunkley; William K Rashbaum; David A Stockman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007



480 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Aids Economy Despite Slump In Housing

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A strong job market appears to be propping up an economy suffering from slumping home prices and a slowdown in manufacturing, two economic reports suggested yesterday.
 The Conference Board, an industry research group, said that its composite index of leading indicators, which is meant to project changes in the economy six to nine months in advance, slipped 0.5 percent, to 137.3, in February after a revised 0.3 percent decline, to 138, in January. 
The drop in February, while expected, was the steepest since February 2006.
 Meanwhile, the Labor Department said yesterday that jobless claims dropped last week for the third consecutive time, signaling that the labor market was not weakening seriously even though the overall economy was slowing.
 The Labor Department reported that the number of applications for jobless benefits totaled 316,000 last week, a decline of 4,000 from the previous week.
 Ken Goldstein, a Conference Board labor economist, said in a statement that the drop in leading indicators suggested ''moderate but choppy'' economic growth. But the economy's saving grace is the consumer, who has been resilient despite swings in gas prices and cooling home values, he added.
 Michael Gregory, senior economist at BMO Nesbitt Burns, said that job growth in sectors like health care, education and leisure had spurred consumer spending and confidence.
 In February, more people filed for unemployment insurance, fewer home builders obtained permission to build houses and consumers adopted a more tempered outlook on the economy's future, the Conference Board said.
 On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged, but hinted that an interest rate cut might be needed to help bolster a weak economy.
 The question for the economy now, Mr. Gregory said, was how far the ripples from the housing market would spread. Housing is a crucial sector because it creates construction jobs, gives consumers equity in their homes, and supports industries like real estate brokerage, home improvement retailing and mortgage finance.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows the 4-week moving average since September 2006.(Source by Labor Department, via Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); HOME CENTERS (50%) United States Economy; Leading Economic Indicators; Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



481 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; The Subprime Loan Machine; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Automated Underwriting Software Helped Fuel a Mortgage Boom

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Edward N. Jones, a former NASA engineer for the Apollo and Skylab missions, looked at low-income home buyers nearly a decade ago and saw an unexplored frontier. 
 Through his private software company in Austin, Tex., Mr. Jones and his son, Michael, designed a program that used the Internet to screen borrowers with weak credit histories in seconds. The software was among the first of its kind. By early 1999, his company, Arc Systems, had its first big customer: First Franklin Financial, one of the biggest lenders to home buyers with weak, or subprime, credit.
The old way of processing mortgages involved a loan officer or broker collecting reams of income statements and ordering credit histories, typically over several weeks. But by retrieving real-time credit reports online, then using algorithms to gauge the risks of default, Mr. Jones's software allowed subprime lenders like First Franklin to grow at warp speed.
 By 2005, at the height of the housing boom, First Franklin had increased the number of subprime loan applications it processed sevenfold, to 50,000 every month. Since 1999, Mr. Jones's software has been used to produce $450 billion in subprime loans. 
 The rise and fall of the subprime market has been told as a story of a flood of Wall Street money and the desire of Americans desperate to be part of a housing boom. But it was the little-noticed tool of automated underwriting software that made that boom possible. 
 Automated underwriting software spawned an array of subprime mortgages, like those that required no down payment or interest-only payments. The software effectively helped move what was a niche product only a decade ago into the mainstream.
 Automated underwriting ''replaced the ways we used to extend credit,'' said Prof. Nicolas P. Retsinas, director of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard. 
 Automated underwriting is now used to generate as much as 40 percent of all subprime loans, according to Pat McCoy, a law professor at the University of Connecticut who has written on real estate lending.
 The software itself, of course, cannot be blamed for lowered lending standards or lax controls. But critics say the push for speed influenced some lenders to take shortcuts, ignore warning signs or focus entirely on credit scores. 
 ''Used properly, automated underwriting is a wonderful thing,'' Professor McCoy said. The problem, she said, comes when lenders customize it to approve the wrong borrowers.
 During the housing boom, speed became something of an arms race, as software makers and subprime lenders boasted of how fast they could process and generate a loan. New Century Financial, second to HSBC in subprime lending last year and now on the brink of bankruptcy, promised mortgage brokers on its Web site that with its FastQual automated underwriting system, ''We'll give you loan answers in just 12 seconds!''
 Dozens of little-known software companies compete with Arc Systems. They include MindBox of Greenbrae, Calif.; Metavante, in Milwaukee; Mortgage Cadence of Greenwood Village, Colo.; and Overture Technologies in Bethesda, Md. 
 With small staffs, the companies typically sell their software to home lenders with vast networks of call centers employing hundreds of thousands of loan officers. Some big Wall Street banks and housing lenders bought the software, then developed their own systems. First Franklin, which has been acquired by Merrill Lynch, said that it stopped using Arc Systems' software last year to create its own proprietary system.
 Subprime lenders like automated underwriting because it is cheap and fast. A 2001 Fannie Mae survey found that automated underwriting reduced the average cost to lenders of closing a loan by $916. The software quickly weeds out the very riskiest of applicants and automatically approves the rest.
 ''You don't have to chase every lead -- just greenlight 'em,'' Mr. Jones of Arc Systems said in an interview.
 And greenlight them they did. 
 By mid-2004, Countrywide Financial, a major subprime lender, had used MindBox's automated underwriting system to double the number of loans it made, to 150,000 monthly.
 ''Without the technology, there is no way we would have been able to do the amount of business that we did and continue to do,'' Scott Berry, executive vice president for artificial intelligence at Countrywide Financial, told a trade publication, Bank Systems & Technology, in the summer of 2004. Countrywide now uses a proprietary system.
 Early forms of automated underwriting were first developed and used in the 1970s to process car loans and credit card applications. 
 By the mid-1990s, software for home buyers with good credit had gone mainstream at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the large government-sponsored mortgage finance companies, and big traditional lenders. But none had been developed for subprime lending, then a niche market.
 There are no estimates of the sales volumes for this software niche, but companies like Arc Systems often have annual revenues in the tens of millions of dollars. Arc Systems, whose name is something of a pun -- Mr. Jones's middle name is Noah -- earns $10 to $30 each time a borrower submits a loan application.
 Proponents say the software makes things fairer and more objective for risky borrowers.
 ''It takes the subjectivity out of the good ol' boy system in which Martha knows Joe, who approves the loan -- then you end up with a bad decision,'' Mr. Jones said.
 Samir Rohatgi, a vice president at MindBox, said that old system of manual underwriting actually encouraged loan officers working on commission to grant bad loans. 
 ''Those people were feeling pressure because of the way their company's performing, so the decisions are sometimes biased,'' he said.
 Mr. Jones said that because his program, LendTech, could parse credit reports for more than 3,000 risk variables, ''we had better analytics than the trading desks'' on Wall Street. 
 But some question whether such analysis gave comfort where it was not deserved.
 ''Automated underwriting put the credit score on such a pedestal that it obscured the other important things, like is the income actually there,'' said Professor Retsinas of Harvard. ''Before there was A.U., down payment mattered a lot. Where we've crossed the line in recent years is to say, we don't need down payment.''
 Michael Perna, Arc Systems' marketing director, said that income ''is supposed to be verified by a person.'' 
 Mr. Jones founded Arc Systems in 1984 to produce software for Suwannee County, Fla., which used it to track when policemen issued parking tickets and when jail wardens fed inmates. Then in 1992, a local subprime lender called Home Inc. asked Mr. Jones to develop a program to screen risky borrowers. In 1997, amid the adoption of the Internet, ''we ditched that software and went Web-based,'' Mr. Jones said.
 Since 1999, his software has been used by major subprime lenders including HSBC and its former Household subsidiary, Deutsche Bank and the Virginia Housing Development Authority. Lehman Brothers and the Ellington Management Group, a big seller of mortgage-backed securities, have used LendTech to analyze pools of billions of dollars of subprime loans that they sold to big institutional investors. 
 ''We've had clients all along the food chain,'' Mr. Jones, who is 66, said. 
 An electrical engineer by training who worked at NASA in the 1960s and then Unisys, Mr. Jones keeps his NASA patches on a wall in his office. He likes to clear cedar and juniper brush on his 100-acre property near Austin. His wife, Gayle, a nurse by training, is the company's executive vice president. Arc Systems has 52 employees and at one point employed seven married couples.
 ''We like to have picnics and play softball,'' Mr. Jones said.
 Since the subprime housing market began falling apart late last year, Arc Systems' sales have dropped 30 percent. Still, Mr. Jones sees a sparkling future for automated underwriting. ''The smart money on Wall Street is now looking for the gems -- and they'll use A.U. to find them.'' 
 Then he added, ''You know that old symbol of the snake eating its own tail? Well, we've always thought the industry was that. And that's kind of where we're at right now.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael E. Jones, chief technology officer of Arc Systems, pointed out the router that connects all the company's servers and technology.
Edward N. Jones, chief executive of Arc Systems, and his wife, Gayle, the executive vice president, sat down to lunch before a recent meeting. (Photographs by Benjamin Sklar for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); SUBPRIME LENDING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); APPROVALS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); WEB SITES (50%) Housing; Housing; Mortgages; Computers and the Internet; Interest Rates; Industry Profiles; Computer Software

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (58%); FIRST FRANKLIN FINANCIAL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Arc Systems; MindBox (Co); Metavante (Co); Mortgage Cadence (Co); Overture Technologies

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (57%)

PERSON: Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



482 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Shares Mixed as Housing Data Is Awaited

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average rose for a fourth consecutive session yesterday, but barely, and investors seemed cautious, awaiting new data to assess whether the hopes of some analysts for an interest rate cut were justified.
 A surprise warning that the cellphone maker Motorola will post a loss for the first quarter also made the market uneasy.
Many investors appeared uncertain about the direction of stocks a day after the Federal Reserve issued an economic assessment that optimists interpreted as opening the possibility of a reduction in short-term rates. 
 The statement unleashed buying that sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 159 points Wednesday and some other market gauges up more. But yesterday's session was erratic, with the index weaving in and out of positive territory all day.
 Investors reined in their buying as energy prices rose. Some debated whether the Fed's subtle change in language truly suggested a shift in policy.
 ''At the end of the day, I don't think it means a heck of a lot,'' said Stephen J. Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities. ''The market received it very, very well, but ultimately the Fed is news-dependent.''
 The Dow, a dollar-weighted blue-chip index of 30 stocks, rose 13.62 points, or 0.11 percent, to 12,461.14. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.50 point, or 0.03 percent, to 1,434.54. 
 The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index declined 4.18 points, or 0.17 percent, to 2,451.74, pulled lower by Motorola's warning. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies was barely higher, up 0.58 point at 808.05.
 Advancing issues narrowly outnumbered those declining on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was 1.62 billion shares, down slightly from the 1.63 billion on Wednesday.
 ''Surprisingly, the market's holding on to yesterday's gains,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners, a brokerage firm in New York. ''The market is doing quite nicely -- we're not really giving anything up here. It shows that technically, the market has gained momentum.''
 Wall Street is not discounting the possibility of further volatility, given the potential for today's housing data to move the markets. And oil prices rose, reminding investors that Americans might be required to cut back on discretionary spending.
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in May climbed $2.08 a barrel yesterday, settling at $61.69. Retail gasoline prices have risen over the last two months as supplies decline ahead of driving season.
 Technology companies were under pressure after Motorola warned on Wednesday that it would post a first-quarter loss amid declining revenue. The company's shares fell $1.24, or 6.6 percent, to $17.50, a level not seen in nearly two years.
 Palm dropped $1.71, or 8.8 percent, to $17.74, as speculation diminished that the company, which makes smart phones and hand-held devices, could be bought by Motorola.
 Barnes & Noble reported a rise in its fiscal fourth-quarter results, but the figure was short of analysts' expectations. A rival, the Borders Group, said it had a fourth-quarter loss and announced plans to close nearly half its Waldenbooks stores.
 Shares of Barnes & Noble fell $1.10, to $37.90, and Borders dropped 73 cents, to $20.70.
 KB Home, one of the nation's largest home builders, said its fiscal first-quarter profit was down 84 percent, though the results were ahead of Wall Street's lowered expectations. KB Home shares fell 54 cents, to $47.25.
 On the bond market, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 11/32, to 100 11/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.58 percent from 4.54 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since December, 2006. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



483 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Amid Complaints on Both Sides, Europeans Accept Open Skies Accord With U.S.

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK and DAN BILEFSKY; Nicola Clark reported from Paris and Dan Bilefsky from Brussels.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, March 22 

 BODY:
European Union transportation ministers approved a deal with the United States on Thursday to open the $18 billion trans-Atlantic aviation market to greater competition, hoping to encourage growth and lower air fares.
 But the agreement, years in the negotiating process, quickly produced complaints from some European officials and airlines, who said it unfairly favored United States carriers. Environmentalists expressed concern that it could undermine ambitious European climate change goals by encouraging more air travel.
Under the so-called open skies agreement, European and American airlines will be allowed to fly any route between any European city and one in the United States. The change, which will take effect in March 2008, is expected to markedly increase competition in many European countries. 
 The United States will be required to loosen foreign ownership rules governing the airline industry.
 While the accord retains a 25 percent limit on foreign ownership of voting stock in United States carriers, it allows European investors to acquire nonvoting majority stakes in American carriers, scrapping a rule that gave United States officials the right to block such purchases. The Europeans reserve the right to lower the limit on American investment in European carriers to 25 percent, from 49 percent now.
 The European transport commissioner, Jacques Barrot, predicted that over the next five years, the deal would increase trans-Atlantic traffic by 26 million passengers annually, to about 75 million, and generate billions in economic benefits, like lower fares.
 He added that the agreement was likely to speed cross-border mergers in the European airline industry. Shares of Lufthansa of Germany and Iberia Airlines of Spain have rallied in recent days as investors anticipated merger talks between the two.
 An American deputy assistant transportation secretary, John R. Byerly, said in Washington that he did not expect the deal to face serious trouble in Congress, which has the power to block it. But he offered no commitments that Washington would accede in coming years to politically difficult European demands, like a further relaxation of foreign ownership rules or granting European airlines access to domestic routes.
 Some European officials are unhappy that the agreement allows United States carriers to offer services between European countries while keeping European airlines from competing on almost all American domestic routes. For example, Lufthansa can fly from Frankfurt to Atlanta but cannot carry passengers from Atlanta onward to another American city. But a United States carrier could fly from Atlanta to London and then on to Rome.
 Under pressure from Britain, which initially lobbied against the agreement, European governments agreed that countries could restrict access to their airports if Washington did not agree to additional measures to open competition. 
 The transportation ministers also agreed to delay putting the deal into effect, until next March, to give Britain time to finish a fifth terminal at the severely congested Heathrow Airport near London, which accounts for more than 40 percent of all flights from Europe to the United States.
 Risks of the deal unraveling remain. Labor groups in the United States have strongly resisted efforts to peel back American ownership restrictions, fearing job cuts.
 British Airways urged the government in London to exercise its right to withdraw from the accord if Washington refused to agree to a follow-up deal increasing foreign ownership rights in American carriers.
 The airlines' chief executive, Willie Walsh, asserted: ''The E.U. is naive to believe that the U.S. will deliver on the next stage of liberalization without sanctions. Nothing short of an open-aviation area by 2010 will be acceptable.''
 But a competitor welcomed the accord. Virgin Atlantic, which has already started making plans to take advantage of the deal -- expanding its flights from European capitals to New York -- said it was a step in the right direction.
 Continental Airlines said it filed an application with the Transportation Department for rights to serve new routes in Europe once the agreement took effect. It said it planned to fly from Houston to Heathrow before summer 2008 if it gets the necessary takeoff and landing slots. It also plans to fly to Paris from a hub in Cleveland.
 The deal is expected to be signed at a European-American meeting of leaders on April 30.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The German transport chief, Wolfgang Tiefensee, right, at a briefing in Brussels yesterday as Jacques Barrot of the European Union listened. (Photo by Thierry Roge/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIR FARES (90%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); MERGERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); COMMON STOCK (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); CITIES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (56%) Airlines and Airplanes; International Trade and World Market; Treaties; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (91%); IBERIA LINEAS AEREAS DE ESPANA SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) European Union

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%)

PERSON: Nicola Clark; Dan Bilefsky; Jacques Barrot

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); ROME, GA, USA (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (92%); SPAIN (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



484 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2428 words

HEADLINE: Asia Week Axiom: The Only Constant Is Change

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
All things must change, the Tao tells us. New York City's Asia Week is not exempt. When this early spring week of sales and shows was officially begun a dozen years ago, a brand-new International Asian Art Fair was its centerpiece. Installed at the Seventh Regiment Armory, it was a charismatic event.
 You went each year expecting to get your socks knocked off, and you weren't disappointed. European dealers like Gisele Croes, John Eskenazi and Rossi & Rossi brought Chinese and South Asian objects so magnificent as to cast even the most masterly old masters of other fairs into the shade.
 But problems developed. Top-shelf material to sell became harder to find. For various reasons, the fair's starriest exhibitors dropped out, often to put on Asia-week shows on their own. When the fair added the phrase ''also featuring the arts of Africa, Oceania and the Americas'' to its title last year, the distress signal was loud and clear. 
 The sad news is that this year's fair, which opens today, is a ghost of what it once was. There's just no other way to put it. As compensation, something very like the original fair can now be found on East 57th Street, where dozens of dealers -- Ms. Croes, Mr. Eskenazi and Rossi & Rossi among them -- have set up shop for the week, in quite spectacular fashion, illustrating another piece of Taoist wisdom: things change, but life goes on. International Asian Art Fair
 To its credit, the Asian fair struggles impressively. Its signature suaveness is intact, and it still has some memorable art moments. A small, fabulous Khmer bronze of the god Krishna doing a Martha Graham kick is among them. It's at Nancy Wiener's booth, along with an early Indian Buddhist sandstone frieze that distills an entire history of muted devotional joy. It is to weep for.
 Another New York gallery, Kaikodo, makes its fair debut with a wall-to-wall hanging of Chinese scroll paintings, the only significant display of this traditional medium you're likely to see this week, other than two dozen pieces by Shao Yixuan (1886-1954) at China 2000 Fine Art on East 57th Street. Kaikodo's booth is really a show in itself, and its title, ''The Aesthetics of Change,'' could apply to this Asia Week as a whole.
 Which raises the issue of the fair's altered, or extended, focus, now in its second year. So far, the non-Asian component is concentrated in just a few of the 54 galleries at the Armory at Park Avenue and 67th Street. David M. Lanz and Tambaran have African and Oceanic art; Ned Jalbert, American Indian. Phoenix Ancient Art deals in Egyptian antiquities but also ventures into western Asia. Unsurprisingly, none of this material jars with what's around it. ''Asia,'' whatever that may be, has always been broadly, deeply cosmopolitan. 
 But contemporary Asian art, which can be found in at least half the booths, is another story. There's a ton of it being pumped out, of which New Yorkers see but a fraction, nowhere near enough to give an idea of what's really going on, which is the only way to separate gold from dreck. As a result, almost everything we see exists without a context, and looks odd and marooned. 
 Maybe the Asian Fair could give it a context. I mean, if the fair really sees contemporary art as its future, why not go for it? A pan-Asian Modern and contemporary fair would be a valuable addition to the city. Done right, with savvy heads in charge (how about Michael Goedhuis's, for one; he's been with the fair, showing contemporary art from the start), it could be an event, make news. There must be some way to anchor a show now adrift. Arts of Pacific Asia Show
 Partly as a result of drift, a once-firm difference in status between the International Asia Art Fair and the Arts of Pacific Asia Show at the 69th Regiment Armory at Lexington Avenue and 26th Street has eroded. Initially, they occupied separate realms: elite versus popular, high end versus low end. But as the uptown fair has lost steam and the downtown fair gained exuberance, distinctions have blurred.
 The Pacific Asia show certainly is a kick. With almost twice the number of dealers (92) as its counterpart, and exhibitors winging in from as far away as Australia, Brazil, Singapore and New Hampshire, there's lots of variety but not a lot of space. Booths tend to be jammed tight; the Collyer brothers would look normal here. 
 So you savor moments of respite (Kashima Arts' bare, sand-colored booth) and of solitary spectacle (an embroidered Ming ceremonial hanging at Chinalai Tribal Antiques). And where else in town are you going find six square feet dedicated almost entirely to Islamic art (Anavian Gallery), or to Sumatran silks that glow like Rothkos (Thomas Murray), or shelves full of Chinese hardwood stands, utilitarian items made to support sculptures, here treated as sculptures (Fleurdelys Antiquites)? East 57th Street
 For the connoisseurial grandeur for which the Asian Fair was, and to some degree still is, renowned, East 57th Street is the destination. That's where the real action is this week. The Fuller Building, at No. 41, is host to no fewer than 16 Asia-intensive shows. Four more are at No. 5, three presented by galleries -- Berwald Oriental Art, China 2000 and Priestly & Ferraro -- that were in the Asian fair until this year. 
 In addition, big, isolated shows dot the street. John Eskenazi, with South Asian sculpture, is crashing at M. D. Flacks (No. 38). Throckmorton, farther east at No. 145, has early Chinese Buddhist stone figures of the kind that caused a sensation in London and Washington a few seasons back. At PaceWildenstein at No. 32, Giuseppe Eskenazi (John's cousin) is on his annual visit from London, this time with a valise-size selection of empyreal Song ceramics.
 When I walked into that show, my city-crazed pulse instantly calmed. Ceramics, an art form designed to make you look before you think, can do that, and Song ceramics are like no others in their combination of finesse and suggestiveness. A flower-shaped 12th-century dish is the blue of every morning glory you've ever seen. Purple sworls inside a tiny bowl are dark clouds in a lightning sky. A tall white stoneware vase has a Cycladic profile; it's as inviting of mediation as any Buddha.Chinese Art, Fuller Building
 By coincidence, across the street in the Fuller Building, J. J. Lally Oriental Art, a necessary stop on even the short version of the Asia Week tour, has Song pieces too. One is a bowl covered with woozy marbling patterns, not painted on but, apparently, formed by rolling sheets of light and dark clay together and slicing them up, like icebox cookies. And from inside a dark, glazed ''hare's fur'' tea bowl, a silvery Whistler nocturne, fireworks and all, radiates.
 Silver and gold, often combined, are precious ingredients of ancient Chinese metal sculptures in Gisele Croes's show at Nohra Haime Gallery. Ms. Croes's displays were always one of the thrills of the early years of the Asian fair. She would arrive late, and relaxed, during the frantic set-up process in the armory. And because her booth was one of the last to be installed, and because her eye for objects was famous, people gathered and watched as she unwrapped one fantastic bronze after another and set them under lights. Oohs, aahs and sighs all around. 
 Her gallery shows since have inspired comparable awe and elation. This year's does with three filigree gilded silver crowns glowing, as if self-illuminated, against a black ground, a true coup de theatre. Himalayan Art
 Rossi & Rossi's ensemble of some two dozen gilded cast-metal Himalaya Buddhist sculptures at Neuhoff is luminous in a quieter though no less magnificent way. The focal point is a 17th- or early-18th-century Mongolian group of the bodhisattva Padmasambhava with two consorts. But the gem for me is a crowned celestial Buddha, about half a foot high, from northwestern India, with his delicate body, linear skirt and mesmerized, leaf-shaped, silver-inlay eyes. 
 The news, though, is that the Rossis -- Anna Maria and Fabio, mother and son -- also have an ambitious show of contemporary Tibetan art, interspersed with antique ritual objects and thangka paintings. Some of the artists draw heavily on these traditional sources; others avoid cultural references. It's always hard to draw conclusions about anyone in group shows, but some of this stuff looks interesting. Perhaps someone in New York will pick up the lead and give us more. (Four of the artists will speak at the gallery at 4 p.m. tomorrow.)
 The Milan-based dealer Carlo Cristi has Himalayan and Central Asian material at AFP Galleries, including miraculously well-preserved textiles. And be sure to head to the back gallery at Carlton Rochell for a scorching painting of the tantric deity Achala embracing his ardent wife in an intimate, ego-blasting dance. 
 At Rochell you'll also begin a descent from the mountains into Central India with the blithesome sight of the goddess Lakshmi being showered by elephants in a sixth-century sandstone panel. And a set of five exquisite, pocketable bronze mandala figures takes you farther south into Indonesia and East Java (after a stop to see Thai bronzes at William Lipton), a jumping-off spot for destinations further east, which in this case also means farther uptown. Japanese Art
 Two of the week's outstanding shows of Japanese art are on the Upper East Side. (Others are at Mika and Carole Davenport in the Fuller Building.) Koichi Yanagi Oriental Fine Arts on East 66th Street routinely assembles ultra-refined, economy-size shows, and ''Japanese Choose Chinese Arts: Porcelains and Painting Themes'' is in that line. If the topic of cultural influence sounds dry, it sure doesn't look it here. 
 Zen Buddhism came to Japan from China, so Japanese Zen art is Chinese-inspired by default, evident in a wisp of a Muromachi painting of the deity Kannon, called Guanyin in China, on a seaside rock. The scene of barbarians hunting on a splendid 17th-century screen is cribbed from a Chinese romance and quotes Chinese paintings, but the Japanese painter, name unknown, comes through with a Kurosawa-style swashbuckler, with yurts on a gold-leaf ground. 
 Ten blocks north, ''Scrolls of Faith'' at Sebastian Izzard is one of the most moving of the week's special shows, a sensual stimulant and a psychic soother. Composed of Japanese Buddhist paintings, manuscripts and sculptures, it revolves around an altarlike arrangement of a slender 13th-century Buddha flanked by celestial bodyguards. Mandala paintings adorn the walls, and bronze sutra containers stand in vitrines.
 But the essence of the ''faith'' in question lies in the sutras, or holy scriptures, themselves, one of which, copied in gold on paper stained midnight blue, comes with its original wrapper of woven bamboo strips inlaid with glinting mica chips, an item as modest as it is rare. 
 A final stop -- though, of course, you could make many others -- is E&J Frankel on Madison Avenue at 79th Street. Edith and Joel Frankel have been in the Asian art business for four decades. Their Asia Week show is an anniversary ''retrospective'' of types of things they've bought, exhibited, sold and occasionally fallen in love with and kept for themselves. 
 Some items have recent historical significance. Two Qing horseshoe chairs were owned by the scholar Laurence Sickman. A 1949 ink painting of chicks under bamboo leaves by C. C. Wang was a gift from the artist to someone who helped him leave China for the United States in a difficult time. Certain pieces document milestones in the Frankels' careers. They were, for example, early advocates of contemporary art from Mongolia, and there's some here. 
 And some things they just loved. One is a sinuously bending scholar's rock that chimes like a bell when tapped. None holds greater spiritual resonance than a Yuan dynasty carved figure of a disciple of the Buddha. It's Ms. Frankel's favorite. So how could she bear to sell it? Time passes. Things change.From the East, On the East SideHere is information about the fairs and shows in this article:Fairs1. THE INTERNATIONAL ASIAN ART FAIR, through Wednesday. Seventh Regiment Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, (212) 642-8572; $20.2. ARTS OF PACIFIC ASIA SHOW, through Sunday. 69th Regiment Armory, Lexington Avenue at 26th Street, (212) 532-1516; $15.East 57th Street3. EARLY CHINESE BUDDHIST SCULPTURE, through April 14, Throckmorton, 145 East 57th Street, third floor, (212) 223-1059.4. JOHN ESKENAZI ASIAN ART, through March 31, M. D. Flacks, 38 East 57th Street, sixth floor, (212) 838-4575.5. SONG: CHINESE CERAMICS, through March 31, Eskenazi at PaceWildenstein, 32 East 57th Street, seventh floor, (212) 421-3688. 6. GOLD AND SILVER: TREASURES OF ANCIENT CHINA, through Thursday, Gisele Croes at Nohra Haime Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, sixth floor, (212) 888-3550.6. BUDDHIST BRONZES FROM THE SANDOR P. FUSS COLLECTION AND TIBETAN ENCOUNTERS: CONTEMPORARY MEETS TRADITION, through Tuesday, Rossi & Rossi at Neuhoff Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, fourth floor, (212) 838-1122.6. SACRED AND SUBLIME: ART FROM INDIA AND SOUTHEAST ASIA, through March 30, Carlton Rochell Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, fourth floor, (212) 759-7600.6. CHINESE CERAMICS, A.D. 400-1400, through March 31, J. J. Lally Oriental Art, 41 East 57th Street, 14th floor, (212) 371-3380.6. CARLO CRISTI, through Wednesday, AFP Galleries, 41 East 57th Street, seventh floor, (212) 230-1003.6. EARLY JAPANESE ART AND MONK, through Wednesday, Mika Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, eighth floor, (212) 888-3900.6. MAGNANIMOUS: SCULPTURES OF THE BUDDHA AND A FEW DEITIES, through April 13, William Lipton Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, eighth floor, (212) 751-8131. 5 East 57th Street7. SHAO YIXUAN AND THE BEIJING SALON, through April 21, China 2000 Fine Art, ninth floor, (212) 588-1198.7. SOURCES OF THE SONG, through Monday, Priestly & Ferraro at China 2000 Fine Art, ninth floor, (212) 588-1198.7. RECENT ACQUISITIONS, SPRING 2007, through March 30, Berwald Oriental Art, 19th floor, (212) 319-1519.7. A CREATIVE SPIRIT, through Wednesday, China Gallery, 20th floor, (212) 838-7887.Elsewhere8. JAPANESE CHOOSE CHINESE ARTS: PORCELAINS AND PAINTING THEMES, through April 10, Koichi Yanagi Oriental Fine Arts, 58A East 66th Street, No. 1, (212) 744-5577.9. SCROLLS OF FAITH, through Wednesday, Sebastian Izzard LLC Asian Art, 17 East 76th Street, third floor, (212) 794-1522.10. 40TH ANNIVERSARY RETROSPECTIVE, through April 28, E&J Frankel, 1040 Madison Avenue, at 79th Street, (212) 879-5733.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Asia Week -- Treats at the annual celebration of Asian art across New York include, top, a Liao period crown (907-1125) at Gisele Croes, an early Song ewer (10th-11th century) at J. J. Lally and a standing Buddha from the Gandhara region, dating to the second or third century, at John Eskenazi. (Photos by top, Frederic Dehaen
above, J. J. Lally & Company
right, John Eskenazi/M. D. Flacks Gallery, New York)(pg. E27)
The deity Achala and his spouse in a work from Nepal dated at 1525-1550, at Carlton Rochell. (Photo by Carlton Rochell)
A sandstone work from the sixth-century Gupta dynasty of India, at Carlton Rochell. (Photo by Carlton Rochell)(pg. E36)Chart/Map: ''The Very Grand Tour''It may not take a week to see all of Asia Week, but there's lots to look at
 you'll want to organize your travel time. The main focus this year is on E. 57th Street, with a concentration of galleries with special Asian shows in 41 E. 57th, the Fuller Building, and more in 5 E. 57th. Three other shows are at different points along the street. From there you can make your way uptown to the the International Asian Art Fair, and, within easy walking distance from Seventh Regiment Armory, to exhibitions at Yanagi, Sebastian Izzard and E&J Frankel. The Arts of Pacific Asia Show is downtown at E. 26th Street, and with 92 exhibitors on board, it's a major tour on its own.Map of Manhattan highlighting locations of fairs and shows in this article. (pg. E36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (78%); PAINTING (78%); ART DEALERS (76%); FESTIVALS (71%); RELIGION (69%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%) Art; Reviews; Asia Week (Art Festival)

PERSON: Holland Cotter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); WESTERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



485 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: In Surge in Manhattan Toddlers, Rich White Families Lead Way

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Manhattan, which once epitomized the glamorous and largely childless locale for ''Sex and the City,'' has begun to look more like the set for a decidedly upscale and even more vanilla version of 1960s suburbia in ''The Wonder Years.''
 Since 2000, according to census figures released last year, the number of children under age 5 living in Manhattan mushroomed by more than 32 percent. And though their ranks have been growing for several years, a new analysis for The New York Times makes clear for the first time who has been driving that growth: wealthy white families.
At least half of the growth was generated by children who are white and non-Hispanic. Their ranks expanded by more than 40 percent from 2000 to 2005. For the first time since at least the 1960s, white children now outnumber either black or Hispanic youngsters in that age group in Manhattan.
 The analysis shows that Manhattan's 35,000 or so white non-Hispanic toddlers are being raised by parents whose median income was $284,208 a year in 2005, which means they are growing up in wealthier households than similar youngsters in any other large county in the country. 
 Among white families with toddlers, San Francisco ranked second, with a median income of $150,763, followed by Somerset, N.J. ($136,807); San Jose, Calif. ($134,668); Fairfield, Conn. ($132,427); and Westchester ($122,240).
 In comparison, the median income of other Manhattan households with toddlers was $66,213 for Asians, $31,171 for blacks and $25,467 for Hispanic families.
 What those findings imply, demographers say, is not only that the socioeconomic gap between Manhattan and the other boroughs is widening, but also that the population of Manhattan, in some ways, is beginning to look more like the suburbs -- or what they used to look like -- than like the rest of the city. 
 ''We knew Manhattan was having a baby boom,'' said Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College of the City University of New York, who conducted the analysis. ''Now we know who's having the babies.''
 Children under 5 now account for more than 1 in 20 Manhattan residents, about the same proportion as in Queens and Staten Island. Married couples in Manhattan are just as likely to have young children living at home as in the rest of the city and the metropolitan area. 
 Whites now account for about 35 percent of the youngest children in Manhattan, compared with about 24 percent for the city as a whole.
 The raw numbers are subject to interpretation, but, coupled with anecdotal evidence, what they generally suggest is that more well-to-do Manhattanites who might otherwise have moved to the suburbs with their children are choosing to raise them in the city, at least early on. 
 Compared with those in the rest of the city, the youngest children in Manhattan are more likely to be raised by married couples who are well off, more highly educated, in their 30s and native born.
 ''This differs from the rest of New York City and the suburbs, where small kids are present among a more diverse array of economic and demographic groups -- single-parent families, renters, those in their early 20s with low to middle income,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution. 
 ''Clearly having kids in Manhattan is a luxury for only those that can truly afford it,'' he said. ''Others with small toddlers avoided or left Manhattan in favor of more affordable cities or suburban communities.''
 In 1989, the median income of similar Manhattan parents with the youngest children, adjusted to 2005 dollars, was $143,000. As recently as 1999, the median was $187,000.
 Since 1989, the proportion of families making more than $200,000 a year (in current dollars) in Manhattan about doubled. Since 1999, the share making less than $50,000 dropped below half of the households in Manhattan. 
 Some advocates of affordable housing say the trend toward Manhattan becoming more wealthy and white is another troubling sign that longtime lower-income and minority communities will inevitably be displaced by gentrification. 
 But Fred Siegel, a history professor at Cooper Union, said a growing population of upper-middle-class residents was an asset. ''How different it makes Manhattan from other cities,'' Mr. Siegel said.
 Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia University historian, said: ''Imagine the reverse -- that nobody with money wants to live here, and then you have Detroit. I don't see how anybody benefits in that circumstance.''
 Professor Siegel said that until now, at least the cost of private school and the demand for space prompted many parents to move when their children got older. 
 Among those intent on remaining in Manhattan are Bill Rosenblatt and Jessica Lustig. 
 Mr. Rosenblatt is a management consultant. Ms. Lustig, his wife, markets classical music. They have a son in preschool and a daughter in kindergarten. The couple grew up elsewhere, now live on the Upper West Side and never want to leave Manhattan, where they enjoy being near both work and their children. 
 ''We're grappling with what we do in a few years when the kids are no longer able to share a bedroom, said Mr. Rosenblatt, who is 45. ''We have financial planners, but it's certainly an issue we wouldn't have if we lived in the suburbs.''
 Ms. Lustig, 40, agreed. ''The only reason we would move is because we couldn't afford to stay any longer, and I'd cry my eyes out,'' she said. ''The kids don't miss what they don't have. Riverside Park is their backyard.''
 A number of parents also said that even if Manhattan was becoming less affordable for lower-income families, living there exposes their children to an international diversity that they might not find elsewhere, and the borough still attracts other New Yorkers and out-of-towners. 
 ''I like them to see the variety of what's in New York and have interactions with different kinds of people,'' Ms. Lustig said. ''If we lived in the suburbs, I don't think my daughter would know much about the Trinidadian way of life or the Muslim holidays that are celebrated. She accepts that like it's water or air.''
 Chris and Marcia Osborne live on the Upper West Side with their two children, ages 4 and 6. He grew up in Manhattan and marvels at how much safer the neighborhood is now. She is a marketing director for a credit card company. 
 ''I grew up in the Washington suburbs, and I feel even more firmly about staying in the city,'' said Ms. Osborne, 37. ''What keeps me in the city is desirable more than it is affordable.''
 Mr. Osborne, 44, an expert on the Russian economy for a firm of financial advisers, said: ''If both parents are working, it actually becomes logistically difficult to live in the suburbs. If you're 90 minutes away, we just don't like that feeling. 
 ''Even if we were disposed to -- for the usual space, quality of life reasons -- to go to suburbs, we would have to consider the practical difficulty.''
 The cost of private school often becomes pivotal. ''Even though philosophically and politically I believe all public education should be of equal quality and wish that my kids could go to the public school,'' he said, ''I would challenge anyone to look at the school and tell me that if they had a choice they would send their kids there.
 ''If we had a third,'' he said, ''it would become very difficult.''
 While the number of children of all races between ages 5 to 9 in Manhattan has declined slightly since 2000, the number of white children of that age grew by nearly 40 percent.
 David Bernard, 42, and Joanna Bers, 38, run a management and marketing consulting business and live with their 17-month-old twin sons on Fifth Avenue. Both grew up in suburbia.
 ''I like the idea of raising them in the city because they're prepared for pretty much anything,'' Mr. Bernard said. ''The city challenges you; it prepares you for life.''
 Manhattan is probably more diverse than most suburbs, he said, because ''the five boroughs are brought together in Manhattan.''
 ''We were just at the Children's Museum, and I didn't see a lack of diversity there at all,'' Ms. Bers said. ''New York is a melting pot. We have every intention of sending our kids to P.S. 6. New York is a wonderful place to raise children, especially if there are more of them and more resources devoted to them.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Rosenblatt, at home on the Upper West Side with his children, Margot and Alex, says he is intent on staying in Manhattan. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 Marcia and Chris Osborne, with their children, Carolyn and Cliff, say a third child would make it difficult to stay on the Upper West Side. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart/Map: ''The Young and the Wealthy''People with children have gotten wealthier in nearly all Manhattan neighborhoods . . .Map of New York City highlighting percent change in median household income of people with children 1990-2005.. . . leading to a concentration of wealthy families.Map of New York City highlighting median household income of people with children in 2005 (measured in thousands).Growth in the number of young children is mainly attributable to wealthy whitesGraphs track median household income of people with children ages 0 to 4, measured in thousands, for the following groups in Manhattan and other boroughs since 1980:ALLWHITE (non-Hispanic)BLACK (non-Hispanic)ASIAN (non-Hispanic)HISPANIC(Source by U.S. Census Bureau, Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); FAMILY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); TRENDS (77%); CENSUS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); MARRIAGE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Population; Hispanic-Americans; Blacks; Income; Economic Conditions and Trends; Census; Children and Youth; Population

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



486 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Force Suburbs To Fight Blight

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: SHAKER HEIGHTS, Ohio 

 BODY:
In a sign of the spreading economic fallout of mortgage foreclosures, several suburbs of Cleveland, one of the nation's hardest-hit cities, are spending millions of dollars to maintain vacant houses as they try to contain blight and real-estate panic. 
 In suburbs like this one, officials are installing alarms, fixing broken windows and mowing lawns at the vacant houses in hopes of preventing a snowball effect, in which surrounding property values suffer and worried neighbors move away. The officials are also working with financially troubled homeowners to renegotiate debts or, when eviction is unavoidable, to find apartments.
''It's a tragedy and it's just beginning,'' Mayor Judith H. Rawson of Shaker Heights, a mostly affluent suburb, said of the evictions and vacancies, a problem fueled by a rapid increase in high-interest, subprime loans. 
 ''All those shaky loans are out there, and the foreclosures are coming,'' Ms. Rawson said. ''Managing the damage to our communities will take years.'' 
 Cuyahoga County, including Cleveland and 58 suburbs, has one of the country's highest foreclosure rates, and officials say the worst is yet to come. In 1995, the county had 2,500 foreclosures; last year there were 15,000. Officials blame the weak economy and housing market and a rash of subprime loans for the high numbers, and the unusual prevalence of vacant houses.
 Foreclosures in Cleveland's inner ring of suburbs, while still low compared with those in Cleveland itself, have climbed sharply, especially in lower-income neighborhoods that border the city. Hundreds of houses are vacant because they are caught in legal limbo, have been abandoned by distant banks or the owners cannot find buyers. 
 The suburbs here are among the best organized in their counterattack, experts say, but many suburbs elsewhere in the country have had jumps in foreclosures and are also working to stem the damage. 
 Outside Atlanta, Gwinnett and DeKalb Counties have mounted antiforeclosure campaigns while several towns south of Chicago are forcing titleholders to fix up empty houses, or repay the government for doing it. 
 Here in Ohio, there are more than 200 vacant houses in Euclid, a suburb of Cleveland north of here. In the last two years more than 600 houses in Euclid have gone through foreclosure or started the process, many of them the homes of elderly people who refinanced with low two-year teaser rates, then saw their payments grow by 50 percent or more. 
 Euclid has installed alarm systems in some vacant houses to keep out people hoping to steal lights and other fixtures, drug users and squatters. The city has hired three new building inspectors, bringing the total to nine, to deal with troubled properties and is getting a $1 million loan from the county to cover the costs of rehabilitation, demolition and lawn care at the foreclosed houses. (When the properties are sold, such direct maintenance costs will be recovered through tax assessments.)
 The Euclid mayor, Bill Cervenik, said the city, with a population of 53,000, was losing $750,000 a year in property taxes from the empty houses.
 At greatest risk in Cleveland's suburbs are the low- and moderate-income neighborhoods where subprime lending has soared. The practice involves lenders issuing mortgages at high interest rates for people with lower incomes or poor credit ratings, usually involving adjustable rates and sometimes no down payment and no investigation of the borrower's circumstances. 
 ''What makes the subprime mortgages so devastating from a community perspective is that they're so concentrated geographically,'' said Dan Immergluck, a professor of city planning at the Georgia Institute of Technology. 
 Rosa Hutchinson Yates, 62, had kept up payments on her tidy two-story house on Chagrin Boulevard in Shaker Heights for 30 years. Now, she may well lose the house because of a disastrous refinancing deal in 2003 that brought her $24,000 in cash but bills she could not pay. 
 Ms. Yates, who has worked as a beautician and a cocktail waitress, was emotional and confused as she tried to explain what happened. Though she signed the closing documents, she said she did not realize that she was getting an adjustable rate mortgage that did not include taxes and insurance. 
 In 2006, broke and bewildered, she stopped making payments and the lender started foreclosure proceedings. A Shaker Heights city attorney said it appeared that illegally high fees might have been charged and that the broker had overstated Ms. Yates's income, raising the possibility of a legal challenge. 
 Ms. Yates, preparing for the worst, has learned that she can move into a subsidized apartment for retirees. But the thought is devastating. 
 ''When folks pay for a home, they expect to die in it,'' she said, breaking into tears.
 In a report for Shaker Heights, Mark Duda and William C. Apgar of Harvard University found that expensive refinancing deals had been aggressively ''push-marketed'' in the city's less affluent west and south sides, bordering Cleveland. They said that ''the rising number of foreclosures threatens to undermine the stability'' of those areas. 
 ''The moral outrage,'' Ms. Rawson, the mayor, said, ''is that subprime lenders have targeted our seniors and African-Americans, people who saved all their lives to get a step up.'' 
 About one-third of the residents in Shaker Heights and Euclid are black. 
 Early last year, James Rokakis, the Cuyahoga County treasurer, started a countywide foreclosure-prevention program, which pays community groups to educate people about loans and help defaulting borrowers negotiate with lenders. 
 In the late 1990s, Mr. Rokakis said, the flight of manufacturing jobs was the major cause of rising foreclosures but around 2000, the surge in careless lending began to wreak havoc. 
 Mr. Rokakis estimated that more than three-fourths of the current foreclosures in Cuyahoga County involved subprime loans, some of them blatantly unwise or dishonestly portrayed to buyers. Only last year did Ohio tighten its laws to require more complete disclosures to borrowers.
 With so many homeowners running into trouble, the City of Cleveland has been unable to keep track of the number of vacant houses, said Mark N. Wiseman, director of the county prevention program. He estimates that 10,000 of the city's 84,000 single-family houses are empty. 
 Suburbs like Shaker Heights are trying to avoid the experiences of blighted neighborhoods in Cleveland like the one where Barbara Anderson lives. Ms. Anderson, 59, said her block of East 76th Street was fully occupied three years ago, but now about half the houses are empty.
 Many of the houses are filled with smelly trash and mattresses used by vagrants. They have been stripped of aluminum siding, appliances, pipes and anything else that scavengers can sell to scrap dealers. 
 ''It stifles you,'' Ms. Anderson said of the squalor. ''It lowers the value and affects the kind of people who are willing to move here. I'm embarrassed to say I live here.'' 
 Ms. Anderson, who works for the city ombudsman's office, is president of a street association that is working with a county-financed group, the East Side Organizing Project, to salvage some homes. But so far, she said, ''when we try to board the houses up, someone comes and tears the boards down.'' 
 Things are not as bad in the Moreland section of Shaker Heights, but residents are worried and angry all the same. Robert O'Neal, 52, has lived there nearly all his life and, until recently, could not remember a house being empty for more than a month. Now on his block, 4 of the 12 houses are vacant, 3 of them for more than a year. Lost jobs, divorces and predatory loans have all played roles, he said.
 ''It's sucking the life out of the neighborhood,'' said Mr. O'Neal, the town's chief probation officer. ''These are big empty houses near the Cleveland border, and people start worrying about letting their kids out to play.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosa Hutchison Yates, left, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, may be losing her home of 30 years, above right, after a refinancing deal created bills she could not pay. ''When folks pay for a home, they expect to die in it,'' Ms. Yates said. Mark Wiseman, above, directs a foreclosure prevention program for Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland. (Photographs by David Maxwell for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (91%); FORECLOSURE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); EVICTION (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (88%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (77%); HOME SECURITY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (71%); AGING (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) Housing; Mortgages; Foreclosures; Suburbs; Blacks; Aged; Interest Rates; Housing

PERSON: Erik Eckholm; Judith H (Mayor) Rawson

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (96%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Shaker Heights (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



487 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: China Ends North Korea Talks Amid Delay in Return of Funds

BYLINE: By DAVID LAGUE

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 22 

 BODY:
Talks here aimed at dismantling North Korea's nuclear weapons program were halted by China late Thursday after they stalled over the failure to release from a Macao bank up to $25 million that North Korea had demanded be returned before it continued negotiations. 
 Christopher R. Hill, the assistant secretary of state who is leading the American team at the disarmament talks, confirmed that the transfer of the frozen money had been delayed by technical banking issues and said Chinese officials were working to transfer the money from the bank, Banco Delta Asia. 
No date has been set for the talks to resume, but Mr. Hill said that a Feb. 13 agreement that North Korea would shut down its Yongbyon reactor by April 13 in return for economic aid and that security pledges remained on track.
 He declined to comment on the specific reasons it was proving difficult to release the money from accounts linked to North Korea. Those accounts have been frozen since September 2005, when the United States accused Banco Delta Asia, a small, family-owned bank, of money laundering and distributing counterfeit American currency on behalf of North Korea. Banco Delta Asia has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.
 Over four days of six-nation talks here this week, North Korean negotiators refused to discuss arms control until the money was transferred to an account North Korea controls in the Bank of China, a state-owned Chinese lender. 
 ''To me, it highlights the degree of'' North Korea's ''isolation that it sometimes proves difficult to return money to them even when everybody wants to see the money returned to them,'' Mr. Hill said. ''It really was an issue of how do you move bank accounts.'' 
 He said he expected the money to be transferred within days, but there was confusion late Thursday about how North Korea would get it and how much of the $25 million the North was entitled to have. 
 The president of the Bank of China, Li Lihui, said Thursday that the bank had not been asked to handle the transaction. ''I can tell you that up until now, we were not asked to deal with this business,'' The Associated Press quoted him as telling reporters in Hong Kong.
 However, China's chief negotiator at the talks, Wu Dawei, who has been involved in efforts to transfer the money, said that the Bank of China had concerns about accepting it and that ''not all the concerns have been assuaged.''
 Russia chided the United States on Thursday, saying it had undermined the talks. ''The American side promised to resolve the financial question, and this promise was not fulfilled,'' Aleksandr Losyukov, Russia's negotiator said, after returning to Moscow, Reuters reported, quoting the Interfax news agency.
 Accounts controlled by about 50 North Korean banks, trading companies and people were frozen in Banco Delta Asia with $7 million in the account of Daedong Credit Bank, the North's only foreign-managed bank.
 After an 18-month investigation, the United States Treasury Department on March 14 banned American banks from dealing with Banco Delta Asia, effectively isolating it from the American financial system. The Treasury Department's action has angered North Korea and become a major sticking point in nuclear disarmament efforts.
 In a statement on its Web site, the Macao monetary authority said it would handle all money in Banco Delta Asia according to instructions from the account holders. 
 However, banking analysts said it was unlikely that all account holders would agree to have their money transferred to an account they could not control in the Bank of China. They also questioned whether the Chinese bank would be comfortable accepting money without question from a bank that the United States had accused of crimes. 
 Daedong has said it can prove that the sources of the money frozen in its account are legitimate and has been lobbying officials in Macao and Washington to have the money released. Colin McAskill, a British businessman who is buying the bank, was unavailable for comment. 
 Soon after the United States moved against the bank in September 2005, North Korea boycotted the six-nation talks with protests reported by its state-controlled news media. It consented to return to the talks only when the United States agreed late last year to hold separate negotiations on Banco Delta Asia. 
 The United States announced Monday that the frozen money would be returned to the North via the Bank of China after North Korea pledged that the money would be used for humanitarian purposes and education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); CURRENCIES (66%); NEWS REPORTING (64%); COUNTERFEITING (52%) Atomic Weapons; Assets, Frozen; United States International Relations

COMPANY: BANK OF CHINA LTD (82%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Banco Delta Asia; Bank of China

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: David Lague; Christopher R (Asst Sec) Hill

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MACAO (92%); ASIA (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HONG KONG (79%) North Korea; China; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



488 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: In Some States, Maker Oversees Use of Its Drug

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
Many states, looking to rein in the cost of expensive antipsychotic drugs like Zyprexa, have turned to an unusual ally for help -- the very company that sells the drug. 
 At more than $300 for a monthly prescription, Zyprexa, which is used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, is the single biggest drug cost for state Medicaid budgets.
So Eli Lilly, the maker of Zyprexa, offers to help states monitor doctors who treat Medicaid patients to make sure they are not wasting money on mental illness drugs because of what psychiatrists call ''sloppy prescribing'' -- giving patients too many similar medications or doses that are too high. Twenty states use Lilly's free service. 
 But some experts question why these states let Lilly help oversee spending on its own medication. 
 ''I'm skeptical of a drug company program that says, 'We'll hold down use of our drug,' '' said Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a professor of health care economics at the University of Minnesota. He described such programs as thinly disguised marketing.
 Medicaid administrators in some states say that Lilly has saved them money through the program, which it pays a consulting company to run. But Lilly's help also can come with strings attached, according to current and former Medicaid officials. 
 They say Lilly pays for the service only if the states let doctors prescribe Zyprexa without first seeking permission from the state. 
 Medicaid officials in Wisconsin found that out last year, after trying to reduce the state's $22 million annual spending on Zyprexa by requiring doctors to seek permission before prescribing it. Lilly responded by ending the program.
 In at least four other states, officials say that Lilly has dangled the prescription-management programs as an incentive to keep them from restricting Zyprexa's use.
 Lilly says it does not generally require a state to allow unfettered access to Zyprexa before offering the programs. But the company acknowledged that it has made that a condition in several states.
 And a Lilly spokeswoman, Janice M. Chavers, acknowledged that the company was not currently operating the program in states that required doctors to seek permission to prescribe Zyprexa for Medicaid patients. Wisconsin, Tennessee, Pennsylvania and nine other states have placed Medicaid restrictions on the drug. 
 The company declines to say how much it has spent on the monitoring programs, which are operated by a pharmaceutical research and consulting company, Comprehensive NeuroScience of White Plains, N.Y. 
 Similar industry-sponsored monitoring programs have been established to manage diseases like diabetes, asthma and chronic heart failure. But in mental health drugs, Lilly's effort is the biggest.
 The Lilly program has operated in two dozen states since it began in 2003. Doctors who veer from guidelines on dosage strengths and combinations of medications for Medicaid patients are sent ''Dear Doctor'' letters pointing out that their prescribing patterns fall outside the norm. Compliance is voluntary.
 The program also tracks whether patients are renewing prescriptions. Doctors are notified if patients are not, to prevent setbacks in their condition.
 Because many of the nation's mentally ill are poor, Medicaid programs are among the largest purchasers of antipsychotic drugs like Zyprexa. Medicaid agencies spent more than $1.3 billion on the drug in 2005.
 But Zyprexa's cost is only one reason for the caution. Another concern for states is the drug's link to weight gain and increased blood sugar, precursors to diabetes. In 2004, the American Diabetes Association found that Zyprexa was more likely to cause diabetes than many other antipsychotic drugs.
 Zyprexa can be highly effective. And Lilly says that a clear connection between the drug and diabetes has never been established.
 Separate from the Medicaid monitoring programs, Lilly's marketing of Zyprexa is the subject of lawsuits by seven states that claim the company hid side effects of the drug and promoted it for unapproved uses. 
 Lilly, also under state and federal investigation for its marketing of Zyprexa, denies the accusations and says it has behaved legally and appropriately. 
 Lilly acknowledges that it decided to finance the programs in response to state efforts to cut costs. In some cases, the states were drawing up lists of drugs that were preferred and others that require prior approval. 
 Lilly says it objects to such lists because it believes in open access for all mental health drugs. For people with serious mental illness, the company says, doctors need the freedom to use what works best. 
 ''For this population, it's been shown time and time again that drugs are not interchangeable,'' Jack E. Bailey, a Lilly vice president, said.
 On that score, the company has support from many mental health advocates who argue that open access to medications saves money by reducing hospital admissions and keeping patients productive. But current or former officials in Georgia, Kentucky and Tennessee are among those who say Lilly tied the program to unrestricted access to Zyprexa and the company's other mental health drugs. 
 Lilly's pitch in 2005 was, '' 'we'll fund this program if you put our product on the preferred-drug list,' '' said David Beshara, chief pharmacy officer for Tennessee Medicaid. 
 Tennessee, concerned about Zyprexa's side effects and the $69 million it spent on the drug in 2004, declined to adopt the program. 
 Mr. Beshara said the potential savings from the program were unclear. And he cited another concern: the program has been offered in lieu of rebates that companies often pay to states that place their drugs on preferred lists.
 In Pennsylvania, the former state deputy secretary for medical assistance, James L. Hardy, said Lilly had offered to pay for a prescription-monitoring program instead of rebates before the state developed its preferred-drug list in 2005. He declined to go along. 
 ''I didn't like that commingling of service and rebates,'' Mr. Hardy said. ''I want to manage the benefit, and I want to get the best rebate deal I can. I don't want to settle for half a loaf.''
 Mr. Hardy said Pennsylvania eventually placed Zyprexa on a list of restricted drugs. 
 Some states, notably Michigan and Missouri, have publicized results showing that the Lilly program helped save money. And they generally praise the program.
 ''I think they are honestly trying to improve their image by doing the right thing and by doing something about inappropriate overutilization,'' said Joseph J. Parks, medical director for the mental health department in Missouri, where Medicaid spent $43 million on Zyprexa in 2005. 
 Dr. Parks has served as a paid consultant to Comprehensive NeuroScience. 
 Officials in Michigan said that they, too, had saved money with the program. But Ben Hansen, a mental health advocate in that state, has challenged Lilly's assurances that the program is run independently of the company. 
 Mr. Hansen, who describes the program as ''incestuous,'' obtained documents through a Freedom of Information request that showed a Lilly account executive had asked to take part in planning sessions and offered to have Lilly representatives brief doctors. 
 Michigan officials said that the Lilly account executive had not been involved in policy decisions. 
 In Oregon, where Lilly set up a program in 2004, the state's former mental health director, David A. Pollack, recalls that he came to suspect a hidden agenda. He said that Comprehensive NeuroScience resisted two cost-saving techniques. 
 One was pill-splitting. Because drugs frequently cost about the same at various strengths, some experts recommend buying higher doses and splitting the pills. Another proposed technique was to have patients who had been prescribed two pills a day take only a single higher-dose pill. 
 ''The economics are straightforward,'' said Dr. Pollack, a psychiatrist. But he said that Comprehensive NeuroScience resisted his effort to incorporate the idea in their letters to doctors. The state paid for its own letters to doctors recommending the techniques. 
 Comprehensive NeuroScience contends that it did not oppose Oregon's use of the techniques, but says that there is little data on their effectiveness with mental illness patients. 
 In Kentucky, where Lilly acknowledges having linked support of the program to preferred status for Zyprexa, the company's persistence may pay off. 
 In 2003, after Kentucky Medicaid officials restricted Zyprexa's use, the company offered about $5 million worth of such management programs in the state, said Robert Hughes, former chairman of a committee in charge of reviewing drugs. 
 ''I strongly suspect that it was a way to keep their drug from being prior-authorized,'' recalled Dr. Hughes, a doctor in Murray, Ky. 
 At the time, Kentucky spurned Lilly's offer, Dr. Hughes said.
 But late last year, the state agreed to accept the program financed by Lilly. In exchange, Zyprexa would be placed on the preferred list of medications. The arrangement is awaiting approval by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
 Thomas Badgett, the current Medicaid medical director in Kentucky, predicts that the Lilly program will help curtail spending. 
 But Wisconsin has found that it can save more money without Lilly's help. Since Wisconsin placed restrictions on Zyprexa and three other antipsychotic drugs last year, and Lilly ended its program, the state says its spending on those drugs has declined by $4 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Beshara, the chief pharmacy officer for Tennessee Medicaid, said the potential savings from a state's participation in Eli Lilly's prescription-management program for Zyprexa were unclear. (Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (93%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); HEART DISEASE (72%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (72%); DIABETES (71%); ADVICE COLUMNS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) Mental Health and Disorders; Zyprexa (Drug); Medicaid; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mental Health and Disorders

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%) Lilly, Eli, & Co

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%); LEL (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: Stephanie Saul; Stephen W (Prof) Schondelmeyer

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



489 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Intel, Already With Operations in China, Appears Ready to Build a Chip Plant There

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 22 

 BODY:
Intel appears set to build a chip fabrication plant in northern China, a move that would mark a major milestone in the countries' trade relations and could improve Intel's competitiveness as it moves operations closer to its biggest customers. 
 Intel officials in Santa Clara, Calif., declined to comment Thursday on the possibility of such an agreement. The company confirmed only that it had scheduled a news conference Monday at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing with Paul S. Otellini, Intel's chief executive officer, who will discuss ''Intel's commitment in China.''
''We have long said we'd be interested in building a fab in China,'' said Chuck Mulloy, an Intel spokesman. ''But we have nothing more to say about it at this time.''
 China's National Development and Reform Commission, the country's top economic planning agency, said this month that it had approved Intel's building of a $2.5 billion chip fabrication plant in the northeastern city of Dalian. That announcement, posted on the agency's Web site, has since been removed. 
 Reports that Intel would open a fabrication plant, called a ''fab'' in chip industry parlance, have circulated for several years. But the Bush administration's tightening of controls on technology exports to China in recent years has led many analysts to conclude that such a move might be challenged in Washington.
 Adam Segal, a senior fellow on China studies for the Council on Foreign Relations, said the company could face resistance if it tried to bring its state-of-the-art technology to China. 
 ''The further behind the technology is, the less chance they have of encountering opposition,'' Mr. Segal said. For that reason Intel might agree to use the 90-nanometer manufacturing process, which will soon be considered obsolete in the American market.
 The Chinese commission's announcement said that the approved plant would have a monthly capacity of 52,000 chips and would use 90-nanometer technology.
 Today, Intel makes chips using 65-nanometer technology. Production using next-generation 45-nanometer technology -- where the transistors on the chips are so small that 30 million of them can fit onto the head of a pin -- is set to begin later this year. That means that by the time an Intel plant in Dalian is up and running, 90-nanometer technology would be at least two generations behind the state of the art for Intel.
 Furthermore, the plan calls for Intel's China plant to make chipsets, the technology that serves in a supporting role to the main microprocessors, rather than the microprocessors themselves. 
 Dean McCarron, an analyst at Mercury Research, said that using older processes, combined with lower labor costs in China, could mean a greater profit margin for Intel.
 Intel's move to increase its presence in China signals the growing need of chip makers to find new ways to meet the demand for chips for cellphones, MP3 players and personal computers. Many of Intel's largest customers do their manufacturing in Asia, including Dell.
 Intel already has two assembly test sites in China, along with two research and development centers, employing about 5,000 people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (55%); ECONOMIC POLICY (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%) Computers and the Internet; Factories and Industrial Plants; Computer Chips; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%)

ORGANIZATION: Intel Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%)

PERSON: PAUL S OTELLINI (59%) Laurie J Flynn

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTHEAST CHINA (90%); LIAONING, CHINA (73%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



490 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Says Rival Stole Its Software

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Oracle sued its rival SAP yesterday, accusing the big German software maker of intruding into its computer systems to carry out ''corporate theft on a grand scale.''
 The companies are fierce competitors in the lucrative market for the business software that corporations use to manage their finances, human resources, sales and customer relations.
SAP is the industry leader. But Oracle, the leading maker of computer database software, has moved quickly to become No. 2 in the business-applications market, mainly through an acquisition spree, spending about $20 billion in the last three years to buy two dozen companies. 
 The Oracle suit states that SAP repeatedly stole copyrighted software and other confidential information in a campaign to undermine Oracle and grab corporate customers that came to Oracle as part of its two largest business software acquisitions: PeopleSoft, for $10.3 billion in early 2005, and Siebel, for $5.85 billion, a purchase completed in 2006.
 According to the suit, workers at an SAP subsidiary in Texas logged into an Oracle customer-support Web site, posing as current or recent Oracle customers like Merck, Honeywell, Bear Stearns, Abbott Laboratories, Smithfield Foods, the Texas Association of School Boards, and many others.
 Then, from September 2006 to January 2007, SAP proceeded to make more than 10,000 illicit downloads of Oracle software and technical support documents, the suit states.
 Both Oracle and SAP have aggressive campaigns to try to persuade corporations to switch to their products, offering big price discounts and technical assistance. 
 Oracle's suit contended that stolen software and expertise were in SAP's Safe Passage program, which sought to lure former PeopleSoft and Siebel users. ''This theft,'' the suit states, ''appears to be an essential -- and illegal -- part of SAP's competitive strategy against Oracle.'' 
 A spokesman for SAP said the company received the complaint just yesterday afternoon and would have no comment until its lawyers studied the details.
 An Oracle spokesman said his company would not elaborate beyond its 43-page suit, filed in Federal District Court in San Francisco.
 The suit says the losses to Oracle cannot be established ''without an accounting of the income and gross profits the defendants have obtained through their wrongful and unlawful conduct.'' It seeks an injunction against use of any software or confidential information gained through intrusions, as well as unspecified punitive damages.
 In its Safe Passage program, SAP offered continuing support for PeopleSoft products at 50 percent less than Oracle's price for annual software maintenance, even though SAP did not have access to PeopleSoft intellectual property or engineers, the Oracle suit noted. Later, after Oracle purchased Siebel, a leader in sales automation software, SAP made the same offer to Siebel users.
 SAP, the suit stated, ''purported to add full support for an entirely different product line -- Siebel -- with a wave of its hand.''
 ''The economics, and the logic, simply did not add up.''
 ''Oracle has now solved this puzzle,'' the suit added. ''To stave off the mounting competitive threat from Oracle, SAP unlawfully accessed and copied Oracle's Software and Support Materials.''
 The illegal downloads, according to Oracle, were conducted from computers at an SAP subsidiary in Bryan, Tex. SAP bought the unit, called Tomorrow Now, in January 2005, just as Oracle's acquisition of PeopleSoft was closing. 
 Tomorrow Now, renamed SAP TN after the purchase, was founded by a pair of former PeopleSoft managers. Its business was to offer cut-rate maintenance and support fees for business software, by focusing only on support instead of investing in research and development for future versions of the business applications software.
 In the suit, Oracle described in detail a few cases of suspected theft. In one case, Honeywell, a former Oracle customer that switched to SAP TN, had averaged just over 20 downloads a month from Oracle's customer support Web site before switching. In less than two weeks last January, soon after the switch, a user employing Honeywell's log-in identification code downloaded more than 7,000 software programs and support documents from the Oracle site, the suit stated.
 In its investigation, Oracle traced the computer downloading the files to an Internet protocol address at SAP TN and, later, to an SAP TN employee, Wade Walden, whom the suit described as ''a former PeopleSoft employee now employed by SAP.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (90%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); DAMAGES (78%); ETHICS (78%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); SALES FORCE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); ESPIONAGE (73%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%) Computers and the Internet; Suits and Litigation; Computer Software; Industrial Espionage; Copyrights; Frauds and Swindling; Computers and the Internet; Ethics

COMPANY: SAP AG (94%); ORACLE CORP (92%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (82%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Oracle Corp ; Sap Ag; Peoplesoft Inc; Siebel Systems Inc

TICKER: SAP (NYSE) (94%); SAP (FRA) (94%); SAP (BIT) (94%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); ABT (SWX) (82%); ABT (NYSE) (82%); ABT (LSE) (82%); ABL (FRA) (82%); SFD (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (55%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (55%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



491 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; SKI REPORT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: As Big Company Sells Resorts, Hopes Rise for a Northeast Revival

BYLINE: By BEN HEWITT

 BODY:
THE Northeastern ski season is on the wane, and so is the American Skiing Company's grip on the region's ski industry. After a decade of dominance in the Northeast through its ownership of several large ski resorts, the company has recently announced a series of sales that will shed at least five properties -- including Killington, one of the region's best known. 
 The shareholders of American Skiing, a publicly traded company, hope that the sell-off will shift the beleaguered industry giant's fortunes. But after jumping to a five-year high of $1.10 per share in February, its stock has fallen to 40 cents. What's more certain: some substantial changes for Northeastern skiers. 
The company announced last month that it had reached an agreement to sell the Vermont resorts Killington and Pico for $83.5 million to the Dallas-based SP Land Company and Powdr Corporation of Park City, Utah. When the deal is completed, the price will be the highest ever paid for a New England ski resort.
 Under terms of the agreement, SP, which already owns land in the Killington area, would control the developable real estate at Killington's base. Powdr would run the mountain operations at both resorts. 
 American Skiing has owned Killington, the 33-lift, 200-trail resort that sprawls across seven mountains, since 1996. That was the same year it bought the neighboring and much smaller Pico, where six lifts serve a mere 50 trails.
 The sale announcement was the third by American Skiing this winter. The company also announced last month that it would sell its Attitash Resort in New Hampshire and its southern Vermont properties, Mount Snow and Haystack. Attitash and Mount Snow were sold together for $73.5 million to Peak Resorts International. Haystack went for $5 million to Tyringham Ridge Inc.
 In addition, American Skiing agreed in December to sell its Colorado jewel, Steamboat, to Intrawest Resorts. There is speculation that the company will also sell its Sugarloaf and Sunday River resorts in Maine, fueled by a March 7 company announcement that said it was ''reviewing strategic options'' with regard to the two resorts. 
 Industry veterans say that the sales herald a potential change of fortune for the Northeastern ski industry, which is down at the heels after two consecutive lackluster seasons. (Even this year's copious February snow will leave most of the region's ski resorts in the red, because it followed a Christmas in which the resorts reported a 30 percent drop in business.) 
 But the primary beneficiaries might just be the skiers and the snowboarders themselves. 
 ''All in all, this is really good for the New England skiing community,'' said Michael Berry, president of the National Ski Areas Association. He said that the redistribution of several ski resorts from the control of one company to the control of several would be helpful. ''For one, it will generate some competition,'' Mr. Berry said, ''and it also brings in new operators that have a history of changing the face of resorts for the better.''
 Nowhere is that change more critical than the Killington/Pico region. ''This region is trudging along,'' said Tom Donahue, executive vice president of the Rutland Region Area Chamber of Commerce. ''We're all looking for a turn in the local economy, and this could be it.'' 
 Mr. Donahue points to skier visits at Killington and Pico, which, according to various measures, have dropped somewhere between 5 percent and 25 percent over the past 10 to 15 years. ''If we can bring skier visits up to potential, it will have a huge positive impact on this community,'' he said.
 SPECIFICALLY, Mr. Donahue has high hopes that SP will revive plans to build a base village at Killington, which has none, particularly in the wake of recent development at the base areas of Sugarbush and Stowe Mountain Resort. A plan for a Killington base village was drawn up in 2000, but American Skiing never carried it through. 
 ''I have to assume that's where this is headed,'' Mr. Donahue said. ''And we've got to go for it.'' 
 Steve Selbo, president of SP Land Company, confirmed that his company's interest hinges on a base village project that would probably carry a price tag in the many hundreds of millions of dollars. (Stowe's continuing development will top $400 million.) 
 ''We've wanted to do this going back to 2004, but we didn't have the acreage we needed,'' Mr. Selbo said of his company's holdings in Killington. ''Once this deal is inked, we will. And then we'll turn the consultants loose.'' 
 Although obtaining the town and state permits for such a project can be daunting, Mr. Selbo is not worried. ''With the old plan in place, we have a road map as to what the town expects, and we do not find it difficult to live within those guidelines,'' he said. 
 One place where the ownership change might soon have an impact is Pico.
 On a recent weekend, the rust-flecked lower mountain lift churned slowly, carrying skiers over a network of wide, groomed trails where beginning skiers and young children wedge-turned their way downhill. 
 An upper mountain lift deposited the more adventurous at the summit of Pico's 3,967-foot peak, where steep, mogul-littered pistes like Giant Killer and slinky tree-studded swaths like Upper Glade awaited. Uncrowded and ungroomed, those are the runs prized by hard-charging residents willing to trade ponderous lifts and relative dearth of choice for an uncrowded skiing experience. 
 Much of Pico's appeal lies in the fact that it has remained largely ignored by its owners; hopes are high that the mountain will finally get some needed improvements.
 ''I love this place, but since A.S.C. came on board, Pico's been forgotten,'' said Chuck Wilton, a Rutland resident who has been skiing the mountain for 32 years. Mr. Wilton said he would like to see Pico's aging chairlifts upgraded and snowmaking capacity increased. 
 But wouldn't that serve as a welcome sign to the masses and ruin the low-key vibe he loves about the mountain? ''The parking is so limited, and the challenge of getting more parking permitted is so huge, that this place will never get crowded,'' he said. ''It's always going to retain its identity as a little local mountain. It just needs a little cash influx.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHANGES -- Killington is one of the Vermont ski areas sold recently. (Photo by Toby Talbot/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (94%); RESORTS (91%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); CHRISTMAS (64%) Skiing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: AMERICAN SKIING CO (94%); POWDR CORP (69%); INTRAWEST ULC (58%); PEAK RESORTS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: American Skiing Co; Sp (Co); Powdr Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (94%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (94%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (69%); SIC7032 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL CAMPS (58%)

PERSON: Ben Hewitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



492 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 884 words

 BODY:
LILLY OFFER HAS STRING ATTACHED -- Eli Lilly offers to help state Medicaid drug programs offset the expense of Zyprexa, its anti-psychotic drug, by monitoring patients' prescriptions to make sure they are not taking any drugs needlessly. But this free offer comes with a catch -- Lilly pays for the service only if the states let doctors prescribe Zyprexa without first seeking permission from the state. [Page A1.] ORACLE TAKES SAP TO COURT -- Oracle sued its rival in the field of business software, SAP, accusing the German company of intruding into its computer systems to carry out ''corporate theft on a grand scale.'' [C1.] THE UNDERWRITING MACHINE -- The engines that drove big increases in subprime mortgage applications and approvals were new computer programs that used the Internet to screen borrowers with weak credit histories in seconds. [C1.] BANK REGULATORS UNDER FIRE -- Democratic and Republican senators in Washington criticized banking regulators for failing to respond more quickly to curb the growth in risky home loans to people with weak credit. 
[C4.] CONCERN OVER EMPTY HOMES -- In a sign of the spreading economic fallout of mortgage foreclosures, several suburbs of Cleveland are spending millions of dollars to maintain vacant houses as they try to contain blight and real-estate panic. [A1.] HOME BUILDER'S PROFIT SINKS -- KB Home said that net profit for its fiscal first quarter fell 84 percent and warned that foreclosures and tighter lending standards could prolong weakness in the sector. The spring selling season is proving unstable, and that condition could persist, said KB's chief executive. [C4.] BLACKSTONE SET TO GO PUBLIC -- The Blackstone Group, the largest private equity firm in the nation, said that it would seek an initial public offering that would value the firm at as much as $40 billion and that would offer a first glimpse inside its closely guarded money-machine. It would be the first of the major private equity firms to go public.[C1.]CELLPHONE USE IN PLANES -- The Federal Communications Commission is expected to block the idea of allowing cellphone use on airplanes over concerns that the network on the ground could not handle the calls. [C3.] MOTOROLA'S CHIEF -- The future of Edward J. Zander, the chairman and chief executive of Motorola who announced sharply lower earnings estimates on Wednesday, may depend on his ability to come up with another hit like the Razr V3 cellphone. [C3.]BORDERS'S CHANGE OF DIRECTION -- The Borders Group, one of the nation's largest book retailers, announced a strategic plan to close nearly half of its Waldenbooks stores, sell off or franchise most of its 73 overseas superstores, sever its relationship with Amazon.com and start its own online retail site. [C2.] 'OPEN SKIES' APPROVED IN EUROPE -- The European Union approved the so-called open skies agreement, a deal with the United States to open the trans-Atlantic aviation market to more competition. But the deal quickly produced complaints. [C8.] TIME TO GO SHOPPING -- Carrefour, the world's second-largest retailer, is in play -- the result of a dynastic squabble, the dismissal of a senior executive, pressure from powerful interlopers hunting for profit, and growing interest in the store's high-priced commercial real estate. [C1.] ONE WORD: COAL -- Consol Energy has started a campaign to burnish the image of coal producers, and attract more people to a career in mining. Advertising. [C3.] CAUTION ON THE STREET -- The Dow Jones industrial average rose for a fourth consecutive session, but barely, and investors were cautious, awaiting new data to assess whether the hopes of some analysts for an interest rate cut were justified. [C10.]EDITOR RESIGNS IN LOS ANGELES -- The editorial page editor of The Los Angeles Times, Andres Martinez, resigned after saying that he had been undermined by his publisher over what Mr. Martinez described as a ''perception of a conflict of interest.'' [A15.]TIMES RAISES DIVIDEND -- The New York Times Company, under pressure from investors because of its stagnant stock performance, announced that it would raise its quarterly dividend by 31 percent. [C7.] INTEL LOOKING TOWARD CHINA -- Intel appears ready to announce it will build a chip fabrication plant in northern China, a move that could improve the company's competitiveness. [C3.]ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.Wal-Mart Stores made its annual bonuses for store employees public for the first time in two decades, saying that about 80 percent of hourly workers would split more than half a billion dollars. (ASSOCIATED PRESS)Jurors at Conrad M. Black's trial were told that a major investor in Mr. Black's giant media company blew the whistle on fees and perks that he and his lieutenants were collecting and that Mr. Black was out of a job not long after that. (REUTERS)Hub International, the insurance broker, said that its recently announced agreement to be acquired had been amended to increase the purchase price for each share to $41.50, from $40. (REUTERS)Pfizer said a court ruling upholding the company's patent on the blood pressure medication Norvasc was reversed by a federal appeals court, possibly paving the way for a generic version of the drug six months ahead of schedule. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows KB Home shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (88%); FORECLOSURE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (85%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (85%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); RETAILERS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%); BOOKSTORES (62%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (55%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (81%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (66%); ELI LILLY & CO (58%); KB HOME CORP (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (66%); LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%); LEL (LSE) (58%); KBH (NYSE) (54%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (81%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (81%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (54%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: EDWARD J ZANDER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



493 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Senate Questioning on Mortgages Puts Regulators on the Defensive

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22 

 BODY:
Democratic and Republican senators criticized banking regulators on Thursday for failing to respond more quickly to curb the growth in risky home loans to people with weak credit.
 Citing concern over a sharp increase in defaults and foreclosures, members of the Senate Banking Committee at a hearing questioned regulators, industry executives, consumer advocates and two homeowners who have fallen behind on house payments.
In a show of bipartisanship, the senators directed their sharpest questions at an official representing the Federal Reserve, which they said was obligated to check abuses in mortgage lending under two laws, one passed more than 30 years ago and one enacted in 1994. 
 But even as lawmakers expressed outrage at the problems being encountered by low-income homeowners, they signaled that they would not rush to impose new legislation on the industry. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the banking committee, said he did not know if new legislation was necessary, saying regulators could addresses most excesses under existing laws. 
 Still, Mr. Dodd, who is running for president, was damning in his assessment of banking regulators' performance thus far.
 ''It seems quite apparent that the regulators were asleep at the switch,'' he said after the hearing. He went on to single out the Federal Reserve, which he said ''had the responsibility to be the good cop on the beat.''
 An official representing the Federal Reserve struggled to respond to a series of rapid questions from senators. 
 The official, Roger T. Cole, acknowledged that the Fed ''could have done more sooner,'' but noted that the agency had taken six enforcement actions against mortgage issuers in five years, repeatedly warned banks about lax lending standards and initiated outreach and educational efforts aimed at borrowers. 
 ''As we saw the problems develop, we did increase our focus on efforts to review what the banking industry and the mortgage originating firms under our responsibility were doing,'' Mr. Cole, who is director of the division of banking supervision and regulation, said.
 The Fed and other banking regulators have issued draft regulations that would make it harder to offer adjustable rate loans. Lenders would be required to grant loans on a borrower's ability to pay the fully indexed interest rate that would apply after the low, initial fixed-rate period of two or three years. The rules are expected to be formalized early this summer.
 Mr. Dodd and other lawmakers said the Fed and its peers at the Office of Comptroller of Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation could have enacted the same guidelines much earlier.
 Thursday's hearing was the second that Mr. Dodd has held on subprime mortgages this year. Several other hearings are expected.
 Later in the day, an official from Countrywide Finance, the nation's biggest mortgage company, defended the adjustable rate mortgage as a tool that has allowed subprime borrowers to clean up their credit and move into prime loans.
 Sandor E. Samuels, executive managing director at Countrywide, said the Fed's proposed regulations would shut out a big group of low-income and minority borrowers from home ownership. 
 But the senators appeared skeptical. They were far more moved by the testimony of Jennie Haliburton, a widow from Philadelphia. Ms. Haliburton said that she had been promised by a mortgage broker that once she refinanced through Countrywide she would not pay more than $800 a month. 
 But her payments jumped to $1,300 a month, and she said she was facing foreclosure because her sole income is a $1,766 monthly Social Security check, from which she also must pay property taxes and utility bills.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennie Haliburton, left, and Al Ynigues, next to her, testified as borrowers yesterday at a Senate hearing on subprime mortgage lending. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ETHICS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%) Housing; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Ethics; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%) Roger T Cole; Christopher J (Sen) Dodd; Sandor E Samuels; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



494 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: A Test for Congress on the War

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Congress's Challenge on Iraq'' (editorial, March 22):
 It is precisely as you say. The time is long overdue for Congress to assert itself in our never-ending, disastrous debacle in Iraq and the threat our continued involvement poses to our country's economy and military readiness. 
 Saner, more responsible minds than those running the country realize that neither are our funds nor our troops limitless, that the great United States of America, with all its military commitments worldwide, does not have the means or the men and women to sustain our present Iraq level of involvement forever. 
 As even the Pentagon recognizes, we have long passed the critical phase in Iraq. Our military preparedness is in the process of being severely damaged. Morale in the military is as low as it has been since Vietnam. Troops and midlevel officers, the backbone of our military, are leaving in droves. 
 Iraq is destroying not only the Army but also the National Guard and the Reserves. Something must be done immediately. 
 Benchmarks, political more than military, must be set and attached to a time frame, and met. And if the administration refuses to act, then it is up to saner, more responsible minds to do so.Carl MattioliNewtonville, Mass., March 22, 2007To the Editor:
 It is a fool's errand to support legislation based upon the president's certification as to whether ''benchmarks'' are being met (editorial, March 22). After four years of deception and delusion, how can you trust this man? 
 Ending a war where the citizens of a country overwhelmingly want our troops out and consider our presence more of a cause than a cure is much more likely to lead to reconciliation than the present situation.
 BP and Exxon Mobil may lose the oil they are trying to control at the expense of the Iraqi people, but the rest of the world will be much better off.Tom MillerOakland, Calif., March 22, 2007To the Editor:
 Re ''A Smoke-Filled War Room,'' by Thomas B. Edsall (Op-Ed, March 22):
 Iraq, Katrina, torture, spying on citizens, incompetent political appointments, lying, war profiteering, tax breaks for the rich, Abu Ghraib, Tom DeLay, Jack Abramoff, monster deficits: I am just getting started. 
 And after all this, Republican presidential hopefuls get applauded by Mr. Edsall for criticizing the star of their own debacle!
 Democrats, on the other hand, were specifically elected last November to bring an end to the Iraq war. It's not easy, because they have to assume a role that would normally fall to the executive branch. But at least they are trying.Dana BallardAustin, Tex., March 22, 2007To the Editor:
 Thomas B. Edsall offers a strategy for the Democrats to beat the Republicans based on the incompetence of the Bush administration's invasion of Iraq and its handling of the war. But the highest priority should be what's best for America, not Democrats or even Iraq.
 Here's an idea that might appeal to both sides of the war issue: Withdraw from Iraq, and deploy the troops to the border area between Afghanistan and Pakistan, which is the heartland of Al Qaeda, the real enemy of the United States.
 After we cut the head off that snake, we can give peace a chance. Timothy BalBelle Mead, N.J., March 22, 2007To the Editor:
 Re ''The Troika and the Surge'' (column, March 21):
 Thomas L. Friedman writes that we need to root for Gen. David Petraeus to succeed ''so that President Bush is not allowed to drag the war out until the end of his term, and then leave it for his successor to unwind.'' 
 I would like to agree with Mr. Friedman, but this president remains adamant that this is a war we can win even though it is not winnable. Unfortunately, Mr. Bush will stay the course no matter what. Stephen SultanUpper Grandview, N.Y.March 21, 2007To the Editor:
 Re ''Clinton Camp Challenges Obama on Iraq'' (news article, March 22):
 Let's not be distracted by the Clinton campaign's attacks on Senator Barack Obama and be clear about the history.
 Until very recently, Hillary Rodham Clinton was one of the chief hawks in the Senate. She supported President Bush's Iraq war policies for years after her authorization vote in 2002, long after it became obvious that Saddam Hussein had no weapons of mass destruction and no connections to Al Qaeda and after it was perfectly clear that pursuing Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan and around the world, instead of getting bogged down in Iraq, was really the only strategic course of action for fighting terrorism successfully.
 We must recognize Senator Clinton's poor judgment, not just in her initial vote, but for helping make possible the whole disastrous, dangerous mess we are in today, for which she still seems to take no responsibility.Eric ChivianBoston, March 22, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (79%) Thomas B Edsall; Thomas L Friedman; Carl Mattioli; Tom (Oakland, Calif) Miller; Dana Ballard; Timothy Bal; Stephen Sultan; Eric Chivian; George W (Pres) Bush; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



495 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Doubts Arise on Immigration Bill's Chances

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22 

 BODY:
House lawmakers stood before the television cameras on Thursday and hailed the introduction of a new measure to secure the border and move millions of illegal immigrants toward citizenship. 
 But behind the scenes, there was much more uncertainty than celebration among proponents of what would be the most substantial overhaul of immigration laws in two decades.
Three months into the new Congress, immigration legislation is hitting some unexpected roadblocks. A mix of presidential politics and unforeseen fissures between Democrats and their Republican allies has stalled movement in the Senate. 
 Key lawmakers in both chambers seem to be moving to the right to assuage conservatives who helped derail immigration legislation last year. Now there are doubts as to whether Congress will actually send an immigration bill to President Bush this year.
 Only a few months ago, Democrats and Republicans alike were predicting that immigration legislation would move relatively smoothly -- with bipartisan support -- through the new Democratic-controlled Congress. Lawmakers and advocates for immigrants remain hopeful that that can still happen, but they said the political environment had changed.
 ''I don't know why we were so naive to think that things were going to go so swimmingly,'' said Michele Waslin of the National Council of La Raza, an immigration advocacy group, who addressed concerns about the stalemate in the Senate. ''I sincerely hope the process gets back on track very soon.''
 Democratic leaders say Republican backing is critical, both to ensure passage of a bill in the Senate and to protect newly elected moderate and conservative Democrats in the House, some of whom campaigned against legalizing illegal immigrants. 
 Democrats and Republicans stood side by side at the House news conference Thursday. But the possibility of a partisan rift remains palpable, particularly in the Senate. 
 Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who is running for president, has distanced himself from Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat, as Mr. McCain has faced a barrage of criticism from conservatives who oppose his support of the legalization of illegal immigrants. The two men joined forces last year to help pass the Senate bill, which would have put most of the nation's illegal aliens on a path to citizenship.
 Mr. Kennedy has suggested a plan on his own, but his Republican allies have yet to embrace it. Angered by Mr. Kennedy's decision to exclude him and other moderates from early negotiations, Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania and an architect of last year's bill, is now leading a group of Republicans in drafting a competing set of immigration principles in consultation with the White House. A Senate vote on immigration, which was expected next month, may not take place now until May or June.
 Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said the discussions between Republican lawmakers and White House officials might result in an agreement markedly different from last year's Senate bill. 
 The statement of Republican principles under consideration may eliminate a path to citizenship for guest workers and require illegal immigrants to leave the country before becoming eligible for permanent residence, measures that Mr. Cornyn acknowledged might prove toxic to some Democrats.
 ''It could well move in a direction that will not result in a bill,'' said Mr. Cornyn, who criticized last year's Senate bill as an amnesty for lawbreakers. ''It's a delicate negotiation, still very much a work in progress.'' 
 Mr. Specter said he still supported last year's Senate bill, allowing guest workers and illegal immigrants to move toward citizenship. But he, too, said the Republican consensus position might be quite different.
 As to whether it would be acceptable to Senate Democrats, Mr. Specter said, ''It's too soon to say.''
 The new House bill would also require the majority of illegal immigrants to leave the country before they could move toward citizenship, a requirement opposed by many employers and union leaders. 
 ''If the process doesn't work and it strands people outside the country, the word will get around and people will stay in a subterranean economy,'' said Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce.
 The House bill, which is sponsored by Representatives Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois, and Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, would give illegal immigrants six years to leave the United States and re-enter legally. 
 The bill would also allow 400,000 to 600,000 foreigners to participate each year in a new temporary worker program. Both programs would include a path to citizenship and would begin after border security measures and other conditions were in place.
 Despite his concerns, Mr. Johnson praised the bill as a step in the right direction. Mr. Kennedy said he hoped it would prod the Senate to ''forge the right kind of compromise.'' Mr. Flake agreed, saying he still hoped lawmakers would send a bill to Mr. Bush by the fall.
 ''The fact that we're moving in the House will jump-start the Senate a little,'' Mr. Flake said. ''There's still time.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John McCain last year, when allied on an immigration bill. Mr. McCain is now keeping his distance. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%) Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Illegal Immigrants; Citizenship; Election Issues; Elections; Presidential Election of 2008; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF LA RAZA (55%) House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN CORNYN (78%); ARLEN SPECTER (56%) Rachel L Swarns

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



496 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: New Coin of the Realm

 BODY:
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela had an especially good time baiting President Bush during their recent competing tours of Latin America. But demagoguery and showmanship will do nothing to solve Venezuela's 20 percent inflation rate -- now the highest in Latin America -- and growing food shortages that are punishing the poor whose interests Mr. Chavez so loudly declaims. 
 Venezuela's biggest problem is that there is no one to question Mr. Chavez's increasingly erratic decisions. The National Assembly has given him the power to rule by decree for 18 months. So instead of seriously addressing Venezuela's serious problems, the showman has settled for more showmanship.
As Simon Romero reported in The Times, Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, has lost about a fifth of its value since January. The government has now announced it will introduce a new ''bolivar fuerte,'' or strong bolivar -- worth 1,000 old bolivar, or roughly 25 American cents. It is also reintroducing a coin known as the locha -- to be worth one-eighth of a bolivar fuerte -- which last circulated in the 1970s. 
 Mr. Chavez appears to be counting on a psychological boost from a currency with three fewer zeros and a coin that evokes financially happier days. But by drawing attention to the bolivar's recent weakness and -- even worse -- to the government's capricious response, the maneuvers could further undermine confidence, rather than raise it.
 Government spending -- fueled by the nation's oil wealth -- rose an extraordinary 48 percent last year, and is one of the main forces driving inflation. Private-sector investment, meanwhile, has weakened since Mr. Chavez decided to nationalize utility companies earlier this year. 
 Price controls intended to help the poor buy food and hold down rising prices have led to a scarcity of staples like beef, chicken and milk. Threats to nationalize grocery stores and jail their owners -- whom Mr. Chavez accuses of hoarding -- have only made the situation worse.
 Venezuela still has billions of dollars in foreign currency reserves. And Mr. Chavez has used some of the oil wealth to push social programs -- including for literacy and health clinics -- to improve the lives of Venezuela's poor. But we fear that any good is quickly being undone by the old strongman formula of cronyism, corruption and incompetence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COINS & COINAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); NATIONALIZATION (88%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); CORRUPTION (61%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) Editorials; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



497 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-10British Police Arrest 3 In '05 Transit BombingsThe British police seized three men for offenses related to the bombings in the London transit system on July 7, 2005, in which suicide bombers killed themselves and 52 passengers. The arrests were the first in Britain in connection with the attack. A3A Bittersweet Return for IraqisUnder the protective cover of the latest Baghdad security plan, a small number of families who had fled their neighborhoods because of soaring sectarian violence are returning. Many are finding, however, that the threat of violence that drove them away remains very real. 
 A1A mortar shell fired into the Green Zone landed about 80 yards from the home of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki while he and the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, held a news conference on Mr. Ban's first Baghdad visit. A9North Korea Talks HaltedTalks in Beijing aimed at dismantling North Korea's nuclear weapons program were halted by China after they stalled over the failure to release up to $25 million in a Macao bank that North Korea had demanded be returned before it continued negotiations. A7Egypt Standoff Shows UnrestA standoff in Egypt between the government and poor families being evicted from a village that sits atop some of the world's most ancient tombs, illustrates the challenges facing a government that for decades imposed its will on the people but now seeks to adjust the social contract without causing unrest. A10 Law and the Koran in GermanyA German judge caused an uproar in a ruling that underlines the tension between Muslim customs and European laws, citing the Koran in turning down a physically beaten Muslim woman's request for a divorce. A10 NATIONAL A11-19 Despite Wife's Cancer, Edwards Will Press OnJohn Edwards, the North Carolina Democrat, said that his wife's cancer had returned in an incurable form. But he plans to continue his bid for the presidency, saying, ''The campaign goes on strongly.'' A1 Housing Woes Hurt SuburbsIn a sign of the spreading economic fallout of mortgage foreclosures, several suburbs of Cleveland, one of the nation's hardest-hit cities, are spending millions of dollars to maintain vacant houses as they try to contain blight and real-estate panic. A1Army Desertions are HigherA total of 3,196 active-duty soldiers deserted the Army last year, or 853 more than previously reported, according to revised figures from the Army. A11Online Pornography RulingA federal judge in Philadelphia struck down a 1998 law that made it a crime for Web sites to allow children to gain access to material deemed ''harmful.'' The ruling is the second major setback in federal efforts to control Internet pornography. The United States Supreme Court struck down a similar law in 1997. A11 Florida May Move Primary DateFlorida could move its presidential primary to as early as Jan. 29 -- a week before the date that California set this month and that New York, Texas and a flurry of other states are considering -- after the House of Representatives approved the change this week. A16Ousted Prosecutor Speaks OutThe ousted United States attorney in western Michigan, Margaret M. Chiara, said she was told last November that she was being forced out to make way for another lawyer the Bush administration wanted to groom, not because of management problems. A19 NEW YORK/REGION B1-6Polygamy Follows Immigrants From AfricaPolygamy in America tends to be associated with Mormon splinter groups out West, but a fire in the Bronx that killed 10 Malian immigrants from two families revealed its presence in New York. No one knows how prevalent polygamy is in New York, but dozens of interviews with African immigrants, officials and scholars suggest that it involves thousands. A1Baby Boom for Wealthy WhitesThe number of children under age 5 living in Manhattan has grown by more than 32 percent since 2000, and a new analysis for The Times shows that wealthy white families have been driving that growth. B1Boy Recalls Shooting HorrorAn 11-year-old boy who witnessed a shooting and robbery in a Queens deli owned by his father tells the harrowing tale of what he saw. B1 ESCAPES F1-10An Eco-Hideaway in MexicoA Texas-based developer is making the first large-scale attempt to build an environmentally sensitive, master-planned residential project in the inland region of the Riviera Maya in Mexico, best known for beach resorts and the night life of Cancun. F1SPORTSFRIDAY D1-8Top Coach to Go to MinnesotaAfter leading the University of Kentucky to the N.C.A.A. Tournament for 10 straight years, Tubby Smith will become the University of Minnesota's next head coach, a school official confirmed. The move is considered a step down in the college basketball world. D4BUSINESS DAY C1-10 States Team Up With Eli LillyEli Lilly offers to help states to monitor doctors who treat Medicaid patients to make sure they are not wasting money on mental illness drugs. A1Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A20-21Editorials: A cleaner food and drug agency; new coin of the realm; foiled by the gun lobby; Verlyn Klinkenborg on California doughnuts and ground squirrels.Column: Thomas L. Friedman.Crossword E31TV Listings E26Weather A18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ARMIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); FORECLOSURE (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); EVICTION (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); JUDGES (69%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (62%); PORNOGRAPHY (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (87%); BAN KI-MOON (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (93%); CHINA (92%); EGYPT (92%); MACAO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007



498 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; In Need of a Booster Shot; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: Rising Costs Make Doctors Balk at Giving Vaccines

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
The nation's pediatricians, the foot soldiers in the campaign to vaccinate America's children, are starting to revolt. 
 The soaring cost and rising number of new vaccines, doctors say, make it increasingly difficult for them to buy the shots they give their patients. They also complain that insurers often do not reimburse them enough, so they can lose money on every dose they deliver.
As a result, some pediatricians are not offering the newest and most costly vaccines. And some public health experts say that if the situation worsens, it could lead to a breakdown in the nation's immunization program, with a rise in otherwise preventable diseases.
 ''We cannot pay for the vaccination of the American public any longer,'' said Dr. Dorothy A. Levine, a pediatrician in Stamford and New Canaan, Conn. ''We're not giving them with as much vigor as we should, and the main reason is financial.'' 
 Dr. Levine, for instance, is not offering Gardasil, the new vaccine that prevents cervical cancer; it costs $360 for three shots. Nor is she giving shots of RotaTeq, the $190 vaccine against the diarrhea-causing rotavirus. 
 The situation underscores the role played in the United States by market dynamics in providing immunization, a public health service in many other countries. 
 About 85 percent of the nation's children get all or at least some of their inoculations from private physicians' offices, which operate as businesses. The federal and state governments pay for vaccines for about 55 percent of children, mainly poor ones. But even those government-subsidized vaccines are mainly administered by private doctors.
 Private physicians have been taking on a greater role in immunization since a 1989 measles outbreak spurred efforts to increase vaccination rates. Now, however, ''we're worried about seeing a reverse trend,'' back to public health departments, said Dr. Howard D. Backer, chairman of the Association of Immunization Managers, a group of state vaccine officials. 
 To be sure, most pediatricians continue to offer most or all vaccines. And immunization rates for the older vaccines remain higher than ever. More than 90 percent of children get shots for polio, mumps and hepatitis B, for instance. 
 Merck, which makes both Gardasil and RotaTeq, says the problem is transitory and that most insurers are already paying for those products. It says that 70 percent of the largest pediatric practices are stocking Gardasil and 60 percent carry RotaTeq. 
 Michael F. Thomas, a senior vice president in Merck's vaccine division, defended the company's prices saying, ''Historically, vaccines have been undervalued.'' 
 But some doctors are balking. Teri Perryman, a doctor in Kerrville, Tex., is not only avoiding Gardasil and RotaTeq, but also not offering the new meningitis vaccine, flu shots or new expensive combination products like one that combines the chickenpox vaccine with the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine, according to her husband, Kevin Perryman, who helps manage the practice. 
 Other doctors are asking patients to pay upfront or, in a new twist, are sending them to the drugstore. Typically, physicians have not written prescriptions for vaccines, as they do for drugs, but instead buy and store them, recouping their money when they give the vaccines to patients. 
 Michele Rabito of Douglaston, Queens, was given prescriptions for the first two Gardasil shots for her 15-year-old daughter, Paige. Her pediatrician would not provide the vaccine himself because Ms. Rabito's insurance did not cover it. 
 The pharmacy took a day or two to fill each prescription because it did not normally carry Gardasil, Ms. Rabito said. And it charged her $185 a dose, about $65 more than the wholesale cost. Ms. Rabito then brought each vial back to the doctor's office, where her daughter was vaccinated. 
 ''It's a lot of trouble and a lot of money,'' she said, although she added that she did not blame her pediatrician. 
 Getting a vaccination was not always so difficult. In 1980, it cost only about $23, or $59 adjusted for inflation, for the seven shots and four oral doses needed to immunize a child, according to data provided by Dr. Thomas Saari, who is emeritus professor of pediatrics at the University of Wisconsin. 
 Today, though, a child who receives all the recommended vaccines would receive as many as 37 shots and 3 oral doses by the 18th birthday -- at a cost exceeding $1,600. 
 Costs have nearly tripled since 2001 alone. And several new and costly vaccines have been added just since 2005. Besides Gardasil and RotaTeq, both made by Merck, the new ones include Menactra, a $80 meningitis vaccine made by Sanofi-Aventis. 
 Also newly recommended are a vaccine against hepatitis A, a booster shot for chickenpox, a booster shot against whooping cough, and yearly flu shots until a child's fifth birthday instead of only until the second birthday. 
 Public health experts say vaccines, including the new ones, are among the most cost-effective of health measures. And higher prices have attracted new companies to the vaccine business, which was once considered a moribund backwater of the pharmaceutical industry. 
 But money has become a problem, not only for pediatricians but for doctors who give adult vaccines, and also for the federal and state governments. 
 Some states that once provided free vaccines to all children, like North Dakota, have had to abandon that practice. The Washington State Department of Health, which is still trying to provide vaccines for all, is requesting an additional $13 million a year from the state Legislature to pay for the new vaccines, which would nearly double the $16 million current appropriation. 
 Spending by the federal Vaccines for Children program, which pays for immunizations for Medicaid children and some others, has grown to $2.5 billion, up from $500 million in 2000.
 But the loudest complaints are coming from pediatricians. ''I cannot remember a time when I've heard this much anger,'' said Dr. Walter A. Orenstein of Emory University, who ran the national immunization program at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from 1988 until 2004. 
 Doctors say it is getting too difficult to tie up so much of their capital in vaccines. 
 ''If we simply purchased Gardasil for every eligible girl each year, it would cost 25 percent of every dollar I collect,'' said Dr. Herschel R. Lessin, medical director of Children's Medical Group, a practice with more than 20 doctors based in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 
 Even without stocking Gardasil or RotaTeq, the group spent more than $600,000 to buy vaccines last year and has $150,000 worth sitting in its refrigerators at any time. 
 Dr. Lessin said the eroding economics of practicing basic medicine was a reason fewer medical students were going into primary care, which pays much less than specialties. 
 ''I'm a good guy,'' he said, ''but I'm not a social worker.'' 
 If the physicians made a profit on vaccines, the advance purchase could be considered a good investment, especially since vaccinations bring in children who can then be provided other services. 
 But doctors say reimbursement is often inadequate. Moreover, insurers often do not reimburse for new vaccines at all during their first few months on the market. While doctors can charge what they want for a vaccine to a wealthy patient without insurance, for insured patients they generally have to accept what the insurer pays. 
 There are also the costs for administering vaccines: the nurses' time, the syringes, the record-keeping, the refrigerator, even insurance in case the refrigerator malfunctions. 
 Dr. Anne Francis, a pediatrician in Rochester, said her practice once lost $9,000 worth of chickenpox vaccine when a refrigerator door was left ajar and had $5,000 of flu vaccine left over when flu season ended. (Because the flu vaccine changes every year, leftover shots are worthless.)
 Unavoidable waste is also more costly in an era of expensive vaccines. If a child pulls her arm away at the last second, ''a $120 syringe goes flying through the air and you can't reuse it,'' said Dr. Francis, who heads a committee of the American Academy of Pediatrics dealing with reimbursement. 
 Insurers and the Vaccines for Children program do reimburse separately for such administrative costs, but often far below the roughly $20 per injection that some pediatricians say is necessary to cover expenses. 
 Some steps are being taken to remedy the problem. The pediatrics academy and the American Medical Association organized a three-day meeting in Chicago last month to discuss the issue.
 Cigna, a big insurer, said it recently raised its reimbursement rates for vaccines. WellPoint, another large insurer, said it was steering doctors to distributors that charge less than it reimburses. Merck is giving doctors 60 days to pay for vaccines instead of 30, although at some time in the past it had given as much as 180 days. 
 More radical proposals, like mandating that insurance companies cover vaccines or having the government buy all vaccines, are not likely to gain political traction, experts said. 
 Another idea would be to have doctors pay only for the vaccines they use. But manufacturers in general have resisted this because it would mean more risk of oversupply for them.
 The government's National Vaccine Advisory Committee is also looking at the issue. Its chairman, Dr. Gary L. Freed, said that beyond complaints from physician trade groups, there was actually little data available on the extent of the problem.
 But that does not mean Dr. Freed, who is also director of the child health and evaluation unit at the University of Michigan, is not concerned. ''Do we want to wait until we have epidemics,'' he asked, ''before we want to do something about the financing questions?''
 DISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Diphtheria, pertussis, tetanusDOSES PER COURSE: 1-2ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)1980: 21996: 62000: 172006: 36VACCINE: PolioDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: PolioDOSES PER COURSE: 4ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)1980: 51996: 512000: 682006: 91VACCINE: MMRDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Measles, mumps, rubellaDOSES PER COURSE: 1-2ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)1980: 151996: 932000: 902006: 81VACCINE: HibDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Haemophilus Influenzae Type BDOSES PER COURSE: 4ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)1996: 772000: 892006: 90VACCINE: Hepatitis BDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Hepatitis BDOSES PER COURSE: 3ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)1996: 422000: 512006: 64VACCINE: VaricellaDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: ChickenpoxDOSES PER COURSE: 2ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)1996: 642000: 592006: 104VACCINE: PCV7DISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Meningitis, pneumoniaDOSES PER COURSE: 4ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)2000: 2192006: 277VACCINE: MCV4DISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: MeningitisDOSES PER COURSE: 1ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)2006: 82VACCINE: Hepatitis ADISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Hepatitis ADOSES PER COURSE: 2ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)2006: 61VACCINE: InfluenzaDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: InfluenzaDOSES PER COURSE: 5-6ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)2006: 120VACCINE: RotavirusDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Diarrheal diseaseDOSES PER COURSE: 3ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)2006: 190VACCINE: HPVDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Cervical cancer, genital wartsDOSES PER COURSE: 3ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)2006: 360TOTAL1980: $591996: $4292000: $7072006: $1,661(Sources by Dr. Thomas Saari, professor of pediatrics [emeritus], University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health)(pg. C4) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ryan Lee, who is 15 months old, receives vaccinations in the New Canaan, Conn., office of Dr. Dorothy A. Levine, a pediatrician. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Dr. Dorothy A. Levine examines Logan Struck. ''We cannot pay for the vaccination of the American public any longer,'' Dr. Levine said. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''More, and More Expensive, Vaccines''Many vaccines have had steep price increases since their introductions. And some of the newest vaccines have prices far higher than those introduced in earlier years. Below, the recommended routine vaccines for children birth to 18 years old. Numbers missing indicate that the vaccine was not yet available.VACCINE: DTaP/DTwPDISEASE(S) VACCINATED AGAINST: Diphtheria, pertussis, tetanusDOSES PER COURSE: 5ESTIMATED PRIVATE PHYSICIANS' VACCINE COST PER COURSE (adjusted for inflation)1980: $371996: $962000: $1142006: $105VACCINE: Td/Tdap

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (95%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); PEDIATRICS (90%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MUMPS (89%); MEASLES (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); CANCER (77%); CHICKEN POX (77%); MMR VACCINE (73%); HEPATITIS (73%); INFLUENZA (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); BIOLOGICS MFG (72%); VIRUSES (72%); MENINGITIS (72%); HEPATITIS B (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CERVICAL CANCER (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (64%) Medicine and Health; Children and Youth; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Vaccination and Immunization; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



499 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Are Kicking Off a Quiet Revolution in Worldwide Banking

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
The new headquarters of Pictet & Cie. is a modern glass-and-steel high rise on this city's edge, wedged between a Shell gas station and a cut-rate electronics outlet. 
 Some of its clients have commented on the new location. ''Especially our conservative clients,'' said Ivan Pictet, a managing partner of the small bank. They said it was like ''the old lady living in the middle of a factory area.''
 Mr. Pictet added, a bit mischievously, ''I'm delighted.''
 The move is part of a quiet revolution at this traditional Swiss bank, which for seven generations catered to the very wealthy from its neoclassical buildings in Geneva's center. 
 Switzerland is known for its banks, some of them now global giants like UBS and Credit Suisse. But it is the smaller, more discreet banks that are changing the most these days.
 Pictet once limited its investments to stocks and bonds -- heavy on the bonds -- but now has $10 billion of its clients' assets in private equity and $15 billion in hedge funds. 
 From Geneva, a centuries-old fortress that has long protected the financial assets of the world's wealthy, Pictet and other private banks have transformed this secretive Alpine cloister of ''little'' neighborhood banks into a more aggressive haven for the global elite. 
 For generations, Europe's wealthy journeyed through mountains and valleys to quietly stash their money with Switzerland's bankers, famed for taking their secrets to the grave. Now the Swiss can be found throughout the world, selling more sophisticated investment vehicles to attract high-net-worth individuals, mostly multimillionaires. They are even working with institutional clients.
 This has helped Switzerland, with a population of 7.5 million people, amass global banking assets under management of 6.9 trillion francs ($5.5 trillion), in 2005, making the country the third-largest asset manager in the world, after the United States and Britain, according to the Swiss Bankers Association. 
 Switzerland also has become the third-largest commodities trading center, after New York and London. 
 The Swiss have been able to ride a global explosion in asset management, fueled by rapid growth in wealth around the world and more varied investing by both public and private pension systems. 
 Not surprisingly, many of the country's detractors complain that Switzerland remains the world's prime tax haven. The European Union and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development have pressured Switzerland to loosen its bank secrecy. 
 Several countries, including Italy and Belgium, have lured back untaxed assets held abroad by decreeing an amnesty for tax evasion. 
 But that is not the biggest challenge. As Swiss bankers penetrate markets abroad they are facing like-minded competitors from elsewhere in the world. Dubai and Singapore have cultivated sophisticated private banking hubs, offering discreet financial services and a tax haven aimed at luring away wealthy clients. And just as the Swiss have moved overseas, foreign banks like Citibank have flocked to Switzerland. Geneva, once a sleepy lakeshore town, now has branches of 100 foreign banks. The number of foreign banks in all of Switzerland has held steady at 150 over the last 10 years, though the number of their employees has soared, to more than 18,000 today, from 14,000 or so in 1995. The total of foreign-controlled assets under management by all banks in Switzerland has risen to 2.6 trillion Swiss francs ($2.1 trillion), from 2 trillion Swiss francs in 2000.
 In contrast, only 350 Swiss banks survive today, down from 550 a decade ago. One of those who survived is Mirabaud & Cie., a bank that belongs to an elite group of 14 institutions whose owner-partners by law are allowed to call themselves Swiss private bankers. 
 Unlike regulations in the United States, Swiss law forbids bankers from divulging information about clients or their assets, under threat of penalty. Tax evasion is not considered a crime, though tax fraud -- that is, falsified information or documentation to avoid taxes -- is. 
 In a recent speech, Pierre Mirabaud, the bank's senior partner, defended Swiss secrecy laws against criticisms by the European Union and the O.E.C.D., saying that those laws remained ''the principal pillar of the Swiss financial place.''
 Mirabaud, which was founded in 1819 by Mr. Mirabaud's ancestors, has become far more adventurous over the years. It has grown to 360 employees, from 100 people a decade ago and is now in seven cities outside Switzerland, including Montreal, London, Hong Kong and Auckland, New Zealand.
 With a third of its assets in hedge funds, according to one independent banker, Mirabaud -- which does not publish such figures -- is believed to lead Swiss banks in that category.
 ''The amount of change is often not visible from without,'' said Felix Wenger, a principal at McKinsey & Company in Zurich. ''Until 15 years ago, it was stocks and bonds.'' 
 At Mirabaud's crosstown rival, Mr. Pictet, 62, is not aiming to become a UBS or Credit Suisse, either. But the bank has 3.4 percent of its assets under management in private equity, with 5 percent in hedge funds. Total managed assets have tripled to 370 billion francs ($296 billion). Its staff has tripled, too, to 2,400. 
 Still, banking traditions die hard here, accounting for the abundance of family institutions among midsize private banks. Guy de Picciotto, 46, is managing partner in the relatively new bank, Union Bancaire Privee, that his father founded in 1969. Four other family members, including a sister, brother and cousin, hold crucial posts, including his father Edgar, the bank's president.
 After several acquisitions, it has grown to about 1,250 people, from 800 a decade ago.
 A third of its clients are now institutions, like pension funds, compared with 10 percent a decade ago. And it is on the lookout for innovative investment instruments, working with American fund managers like the Lehman Global Value Fund and the Boston-based investment boutique Polaris Capital Management. 
 About 110 of its people are in New York. ''The fund managers are all there, so we're closer to the information,'' Mr. Picciotto said. 
 The bank has pushed beyond New York, with branches in Latin America, Europe and Asia. Mr. Picciotto is now looking at China. ''We cannot ignore a billion people,'' he said, smiling. ''Especially when some are rich.'' 
 The Swiss are working hard to keep their edge. At Wegelin & Company, a boutique private bank set up in 1741, Konrad Hummler, a 53-year-old nattily dressed managing partner, has 15 to 25 students from the local university working for the bank, shaping a reservoir of future talent. 
 Since 1991, assets under management have grown 20 times, to 17 billion Swiss francs (about $14 billion). The number of branches went from one, in the eastern Swiss town of St. Gallen, to six, with two more to come this year. Yet Mr. Hummler refuses to open branches outside Switzerland, arguing that the legal technicalities and different regulations are too complex for a small bank to handle.
 The idea of grooming students for private banking has caught on. In Geneva, bankers paid to create an institute at a university to train private bankers. The long-term goal foresees the banks helping finance as many as 50 chairs in finance at Swiss universities. Already, recruitment drives have taken them to the United States. 
 Not every attempt to branch out works well, however. Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch poured resources into its investment banking division, only to sell it last year. ''We don't have to be everything to everybody,'' said Patrick Odier, 51, a managing partner, and the sixth generation of his family to run the bank. 
 Creating the bank in 2002 from two of Geneva's oldest banks -- Lombard Odier and Darier Hentsch -- was a big break from the past. The changes at Lombard Odier, like those at many other Swiss banks, occurred because their clients changed, from mainly Swiss or Europeans from neighboring countries, with conservative investment habits, to a new generation comfortable with new types of investment instruments. 
 ''It's a very traditional business,'' said Jean-Pierre Danthine, a professor of finance who runs the institute created by the banks at the Universite de Lausanne. 
 ''But their future depends on innovation.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pierre Mirabaud is the senior partner of Mirabaud & Cie. (Photo by Fred Merz/Rezo)(pg. C1)
 Ivan Pictet is a managing partner at Pictet & Cie., which once limited its investments to stocks and bonds, but now has $10 billion of its clients' assets in private equity and $15 billion in hedge funds. (Photo by Nicolas Righetti/Rezo)(pg. C9)Chart: ''Growing Abroad''In recent years, Swiss banks began offering more sophisticated investment opportunities, luring the assets of high net worth individuals and institutions from all over the world.Graph tracks the total assets managed by Swiss banks* (in trillions of Swiss Francs)Both Swiss and foreign clients are tracked from 2001-2006.*Offices in Switzerland only, not overseas.(Source by Swiss National Bank, Swiss Bankers Association)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); PRIVATE BANKING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); TAX FRAUD (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TAX LAW (60%) Banks and Banking; Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Pictet & Cie

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: John Tagliabue

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (50%) SWITZERLAND (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); BELGIUM (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (50%) Switzerland

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



500 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Dow's Weekly Gain Is Biggest in 4 Years

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average rose modestly yesterday, securing its best week in four years after a surprise jump in home sales eased concern that frailty in the housing market would hurt economic growth.
 Existing-home sales rose by the biggest amount in nearly three years in February amid a sharp increase in sales in the Northeast, the National Association of Realtors said. The 3.9 percent increase was the largest since a similar jump in March 2004; analysts had been expecting a decrease.
Still, the report did have some downbeat aspects. The median price of a home fell year-over-year for the seventh consecutive month, and the number of homes for sale rose. 
 The Federal Reserve said this week that an ''adjustment'' in the housing sector was continuing, offering some relief for investors who were unnerved by the troubles in subprime mortgages, the home loans made to people with weak credit. 
 ''People are realizing the housing market is bottoming and is not going to cause a recession in 2007,'' said Noman Ali, United States equities portfolio manager at MFC Global Investment Management. ''The consumer is really the main driving force of the economy, and the consumer remains strong.''
 The Dow Jones industrials rose 19.87 points, or 0.16 percent, to 12,481.01. The Dow has risen five straight sessions, picking up 370.60 points for its biggest weekly point gain since March 2003; that translated to a 3.06 percent rise for the week.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 1.57 points, or 0.11 percent, to 1,436.11.
 The Nasdaq composite index declined 2.81 points, or 0.11 percent, to 2,448.93.
 For the week, the S.& P. 500 rose 3.5 percent, and the Nasdaq gained 3.2 percent.
 Bond prices fell after the release of the housing data. The 10-year Treasury note was down 8/32, to 100 3/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.61 percent from 4.58 percent on Thursday.
 In trading yesterday, DaimlerChrysler jumped to a 52-week high amid speculation that a Canadian auto supplier, along with a private equity firm, planned to make a bid for the struggling Chrysler division.
 Shares of DaimlerChrysler jumped $4.76, or 6.1 percent, to $82.36, on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock traded as high as $82.93, eclipsing an earlier 52-week high of $77.99.
 General Motors, one of the 30 stocks in the Dow industrials, rose amid enthusiasm over the possible Chrysler bid and after G.M. announced stock option grants to executives that are tied to the company's performance. The shares rose $1.67, or 5.5 percent, to $31.99.
 Verizon, also a Dow component, was up 11 cents, to $38.12, after a federal judge issued a permanent injunction against the Internet phone company Vonage involving use of Verizon's patents. Vonage fell 26 percent, or $1.05, to $3.
 Amgen declined $2.45, or 4.1 percent, to $58.02, after the company halted a trial of a colon cancer drug, Vectibix. In the trial, the product hastened the development of colon cancer when used in combination with another cancer drug, Avastin.
 Examining the week's trading, Ed Hyland, global investment specialist for JPMorgan Private Bank, said it was a good sign that the market had not given back its gains. ''I think it's just that the market is continuing to digest the rally that it had,'' he said, though he noted Wednesday's advance, which included a 159-point jump in the Dow industrials, was perhaps overwrought.
 The May contract for crude oil settled up 59 cents at $62.28 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil prices rose after word that Iranian naval vessels had detained 15 British sailors and marines in Iraqi waters. Concerns arose that an escalation of tension could hurt exports from the Persian Gulf.
 Advancing issues narrowly outnumbered decliners by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.39 billion shares, down from 1.62 billion Thursday.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BONDS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds; Finances

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



501 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BASIC INSTINCTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Windfall Time: When Angels Battle Demons

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
MATTHEW BUSHLOW, a publicist in Burlington, Vt., is expecting a $2,000 tax refund this year. Like many people who anticipate a windfall -- whether from a bonus, book advance, birthday money or Uncle Sam -- Mr. Bushlow is on the verge of spending the money even before the check lands in his account.
 At first he earmarked half the funds to pay back some credit card debt and the other half for savings. But like most taxpayers, Mr. Bushlow has had to wait a few weeks between filing his return and laying his hands on the actual cash -- and greater temptations have now entered the equation. 
Given the size of his refund, it seemed only reasonable to set aside $400 or $500 for a long-promised trip to see old friends. Then there was the matter of the iPod he had always wanted. Mr. Bushlow, who also edits and writes for a local music magazine, noticed that it is possible to buy a refurbished iPod online for about $100 less than buying one new. ''I don't have an iPod,'' he said. At this point, Mr. Bushlow found himself arguing with the little demon on his shoulder: ''What happened to just putting the money into debt and savings?''
 Windfalls, much as we love to get them, can be complicated. First there is the irresistible impulse to allocate the money -- or spend it, via credit or some other form of borrowing -- long before you even have the cash. That's just human nature, says George Loewenstein, professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University.
 If a wealthy relative were to leave you an inheritance of $50,000, ''as soon as you know you're going to get that money, you are in effect $50,000 richer,'' Professor Loewenstein said. ''So the moment you know you will have money, from an economic perspective it makes sense to spend it.''
 Except, for some reason, that's often when Murphy's Law of Money strikes: When the best-laid financial plans can go wrong, they will. ''It's that funky phenomenon that happens the minute you get any extra financial padding -- and the house, the car or the pets already seem to know about it,'' said Beth Clarke, a licensed massage therapist in Eugene, Ore.
 Ms. Clarke speaks from experience. She and her husband had planned to put this year's $3,400 tax refund toward their home equity loan. Then a routine trip to the mechanic revealed that their car needed new tires; next, the cat needed veterinary care, and so on.
 The mysterious ability of unforeseen expenses to arrive just in time to consume your surplus cash can be maddening. What's far worse is when a windfall you've not only planned for but spent most of never materializes. 
 Chris Sultan, a translator who now lives in Roxbury, N.Y., put his previous home in Virginia on the market last year, feeling confident that he would make certain profit based on values in that area. So he borrowed that amount -- about $40,000, all on credit cards -- to make renovations on his current home, a move that didn't seem risky at the time. ''I planned to use the proceeds from the sale of the house to pay off the cards right away,'' Mr. Sultan said.
 UNFORTUNATELY, he never saw the gain he'd banked on. ''The market softened, and I had to reduce the price of my house three times,'' he said.
 As millions of homeowners would probably now agree, potential real estate profits should not be considered a true windfall, according to Professor Loewenstein. ''Deciding to sell a house is not the same as actually selling it,'' he said. ''By that token you could justify any sort of spending -- like buying a lottery ticket and spending your winnings in advance.''
 While Professor Loewenstein says there is a certain economic logic to spending more definite boons, like a tax refund, he is puzzled by why so many people withhold more taxes than they need to ''as a savings mechanism'' -- only to then fritter away that money. ''If you overwithheld in order to save, it doesn't make sense to spend it.''
 Or maybe another way to think of it is that sometimes, despite elaborate schemes and daydreams, the way people spend their ''found'' money doesn't always yield the home-run high they'd hoped for. ''If you really want to enjoy a windfall, save part of it -- because it's always difficult to save,'' he said.
 ''Then spend the rest on something you wouldn't ordinarily spend money on -- like a wide-screen TV or a vacation,'' he said, admitting he was speaking from the Florida Keys, where he was on vacation himself. ''Spend the money on something that will bring you a lot of pleasure, or something you'll always remember. Either way, that's an investment.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (64%); CATS (64%); PETS (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%); TIRES (60%) Personal Finances

PERSON: M P Dunleavey

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (73%); EUGENE, OR, USA (68%) VERMONT, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



502 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: The Labor Of Raising Fresh Produce

BYLINE: By JUSTON JONES

 BODY:
The clocks have sprung forward, and the change of seasons is under way. But from trees budding in January because of unseasonable temperatures in the Northeast to frozen citrus crops in the West, this winter will be remembered for delivering some unusual weather.
 The weather is only one part of the story for Fresh Del Monte Produce, the fruit and vegetable company. Mohammad Abu-Ghazaleh, 65, the chief executive, spoke recently about price inflation, focusing on new markets in the Middle East and Africa and the around-the-world business trips his job requires. Following are excerpts:Q. We had some weird weather this winter. Did your crops sustain any significant damage?A. The weather has been weird interms of being positive in some areas and negative in others. As far as Del Monte is concerned, we don't have so much exposure to growing crops in California, where the freezing took place, during the winter. We grow our crops in Arizona and Texas. 
We saw good weather in Central America, where it is usually more rainy. This year we found the rains to be moderate and sunshine more abundant. This was helpful to our bananas, pineapples and melons.Q. In parts of the country in the latest harvest, crops went to waste because of a labor shortage. Do you struggle with finding enough workers?A. This is a challenge, something that we have to work on. We have a big operation in Arizona, where we produce melons in the spring and fall. And we use a lot of labor in the fields for picking and packing. This, of course, is a situation where we have to live with the new wages that have just been passed on by Congress. And also the issue of having access to labor from Mexico. This is an issue that the whole industry is dealing with. Our prices to the consumer haven't been raised to handle this increase in labor costs. The additional costs will have to be passed on to the consumer. We won't be able to absorb the costs for a very long time.Q. When you recently reported your fourth-quarter and full-year earnings, you said that 2006 was your most challenging year. Why?A. Higher costs from energy. That affected packing and plastics and logistics in every way. Prices for everything went up, and all of a sudden. At the end of 2005, when we projected for 2006, we never expected energy and fuel prices to shoot up by 50, 60, 70 percent. Also, the dollar has weakened over the past year. And the currencies in our producing nations have shot up. Q. How will you turn things around in 2007?A. We closed operations that were not so profitable, like some potato operations and onion operations in North America, and sold some others. We also closed some pineapple operations in Hawaii, where costs were extremely high. We will see benefits from these actions. We are also working on some pricing, like with bananas, in North America.Q. Where do you see the most opportunity for growth this year?A. We are focusing on our new markets, Middle East and Africa. Countries like the United Arab Emirates and Jordan, where we have a successful poultry operation. 
 In Africa, we are focusing on North Africa; Algeria is a strong market in particular. We have just opened a state-of-the-art plant for processed meats in Jordan, and we will market the products throughout the whole region. 
 We are also now entering into ice creams in Europe. We are experiencing high growth rates in volumes, and we are intending to expand that into new markets as well. Q. How do you stay on top of all this business all over the world?A. I'm usually on the road about six months a year. Two days ago, I returned from a trip that took me halfway around the globe. I started by going to Dubai, then went to the Philippines, then to Hong Kong then Japan. Then I went back to North America, then Chile, then back to North America. And right now I'm talking to you from Jordan.Q. I know your company was not involved, but the recent widespread contamination of bagged spinach put food safety in the public spotlight. How do you ensure the safety of your produce?A. Safety has been one of our major focuses, not only this year, but always. We have a system that can detect every carton or package that was handled by our company. We can even tell to the point that we know who was packing each box. We are very comfortable with our system and our controls.

GRAPHIC: Photo: MOHAMMAD ABU-GHAZALEH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PINEAPPLE PRODUCTION (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); CITRUS GROVES (77%); MELON FARMING (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%); COMPANY EARNINGS (60%); EXECUTIVES (56%) Vegetables; International Trade and World Market; Biographical Information; Fruit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FRESH DEL MONTE PRODUCE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Del Monte Foods Co

TICKER: FDP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (58%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (58%); NAICS111219 OTHER VEGETABLE (EXCEPT POTATO) & MELON FARMING (58%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (58%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (58%); SIC0161 VEGETABLES & MELONS (58%)

PERSON: Mohammad Abu-Ghazaleh; Juston Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (70%) Middle East; Africa

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



503 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Data Show Wide Differences In New Jersey School Spending

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU and FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
With an average class size of nine, the tiny Sea Isle City school district on the Jersey Shore is spending $33,805 on each of its 90 students this school year, or nearly three times the statewide average of $12,098 per student, according to data released yesterday by the New Jersey Department of Education.
 Some 140 miles up the coast, the Guttenberg school district in Hudson County is spending an average of $7,426 on each of its more than 900 students, having eliminated most of its extracurricular activities because of budget problems. 
The wide range in spending among the state's 615 school districts is starkly laid out in the 2007 Comparative Spending Guide, which showed an average per-student increase of 3.1 percent over last year. 
 The annual survey has been released less than a month before state residents are scheduled to vote on their local school district budgets for the coming year. 
 The disparity in student spending has prompted renewed calls from school officials and parents for an overhaul of the school financing system, which critics say has shortchanged many districts while directing the bulk of state aid to 31 poor urban areas identified as Abbott districts under a landmark court case. 
 State legislators have been working on a new state aid formula, but their efforts appear to have stalled in recent weeks.
 ''That is a big spread, and equity is something that needs to be addressed in the anticipated new school funding formula,'' said Lynne Strickland, executive director of the Garden State Coalition of Schools, which represents 150 suburban school districts.
 Lucille E. Davy, the state education commissioner, said of the annual statistical survey, ''It serves as a tool for citizens to use now to guide discussions about school spending during the local school budget development process.''
 Classroom instruction costs accounted for more than half of the total spent on education statewide, followed by support services like guidance counseling and nursing, and administrative costs. 
 Average class size in the state is 19, according to state data.
 At the upper end of spending are small wealthy school districts like Sea Isle and Avalon, a neighboring shore town in Cape May, which spends $29,982 per student, and the Alpine school district in Bergen County, which spends $21,534 per student. 
 Many of the state's Abbott districts also spend much more than the state average. Asbury Park schools, for instance, are spending $19,102 per student this year, according to the survey, and Newark schools $17,974 per student.
 The bottom end includes the Woodlynne schools in Camden, which will spend $7,660 per student.
 In many school districts, administrators said rising costs of teacher salaries and benefits had pushed up operating costs even as the officials sought to reduce spending in other areas. 
 In the Union City schools -- where spending rose to $15,497 per student, compared with $14,635 in the previous year -- nonsalary costs have been reduced by as much as 30 percent in the past five years, said Anthony N. Dragona, the business administrator. 
 One of the largest drops in spending was in the Camden school district, which was cited for questionable expenses and accounting practices in a state audit released last month. The district, which has 16,800 students, will spend $12,922 per student this year, compared with $16,904 the year before.
 Bart Leff, a district spokesman, said the district finished upgrading its computer technology and curriculum and updating its textbooks last year, so it needed to spend less money in those areas. In addition, he said, the district has replaced retiring teachers with entry-level teachers at lower salaries, and relied on state education officials for training and staff development that were previously handled by paid consultants.
 In Sea Isle, an enclave of oceanfront homes, the school district operates from prekindergarten through eighth grade, sending high schoolers to neighboring Ocean City. 
 ''We might not have economies of scale, but we can provide a really personalized education for our students, and there's something to be said for that,'' said Brian Robinson, the acting supervisor for the Sea Isle district.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Financial Disparity''There is a wide range in spending among the New Jersey's 615 school districts. Below, the districts with the highest and lowest spending per student, excluding special service, vocational and charter school districts.STATEWIDE AVERAGE: $12,098DISTRICT -- Sea Isle CityCOUNTY -- Cape May GROUP -- K-8SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- $33,805DISTRICT -- Avalon BoroCOUNTY -- Cape MayGROUP -- K-8SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- 29,982DISTRICT -- Alpine BoroCOUNTY -- BergenGROUP -- K-8SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- 21,534DISTRICT -- Hoboken CityCOUNTY -- HudsonGROUP -- K-12SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 --19,363DISTRICT -- Asbury Park CityCOUNTY -- MonmouthGROUP -- K-12SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- 19,102DISTRICT -- Harrison TownshipCOUNTY -- GloucesterGROUP -- K-6SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- 8,286DISTRICT -- Swedesboro--WoolwichCOUNTY -- GloucesterGROUP -- K-6SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- 8,265DISTRICT -- Laurel Springs BoroCOUNTY -- CamdenGROUP -- K-6SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- 8,079DISTRICT -- Woodlynne BoroCOUNTY -- CamdenGROUP -- K-8SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- 7,660DISTRICT -- Guttenberg TownCOUNTY -- HudsonGROUP -- K-8SPENDING PER STUDENT, 2006-7 -- 7,426(Source by New Jersey Department of Education) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (92%); EDUCATION FUNDING (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); SUBURBS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (50%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Comparitive Spending Guide

PERSON: Winnie Hu; Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; Guttenberg (NJ); Sea Isle City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



504 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Debt and the College Graduate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Stepping on the Dream'' (column, March 22):
 Bob Herbert highlights one dimension of a titanic problem on the horizon. The bow is, as he describes, the debt burden carried by increasing numbers of young college graduates. The stern, which is more likely to bring the ship down, is the looming default crisis that seems inevitable. 
 Costs of education are rising at a far faster rate than the incomes earned by those who carry the debt. The whole system is predicated on future income streams that are drying up as fast as candor in Washington. 
 I predict a financial collapse of unprecedented magnitude in the decades ahead. It will make the current mortgage lending debacle look trivial in comparison.Steven J. NelsonHead, Calhoun SchoolNew York, March 23, 2007To the Editor:
 It is amazing, as Bob Herbert points out, that in a time when we've constructed a society that is critically dependent upon the pursuit of higher education by the widest possible range of citizens, we've managed to turn access to that education into just another debt-driven fixture of our consumerist culture. 
 Given that a college education is important not only to the individual as a private person but also to the individual as citizen, one wonders why the pursuit of such higher learning is not seen as something of an obligation rather than one more trinket and one more hurdle in the ever-earlier-starting rat race.David DumitruSt. Louis, March 22, 2007To the Editor:
 To be sure, the cost of a college education is escalating, but that ''sweet period'' of days gone by when recent college graduates could relax, travel or ''sample intriguing employment opportunities'' is largely a myth.
 Today's generation, used to instant gratification, may be ill equipped to face the sacrifices they must make to secure a college education. 
 Designer clothes, expensive cars and travel will have to be put on hold for a while. And yes, the new graduate might just have to get used to the ''persistent anxiety'' and settle for a first job that pays the bills -- just as earlier generations had to do. Diane MarettLake Ronkonkoma, N.Y.March 22, 2007To the Editor:
 My legal career transition is another example of how student debt steers lawyers away from public interest work. 
 I worked as a public defender for the State of Florida right after law school and enjoyed the good feeling that came with helping the poor rural population in central Florida. But with more than $100,000 of debt, much of it at 9 percent interest, I just couldn't afford to get by on my $41,000-a-year salary.
 Transitioning to work for the federal government and working in intellectual property, I help commerce flow but rarely help people themselves. And now, because I make more than $50,000 a year, I can no longer deduct my interest payments for my law school debt.
 One of the first steps Congress could take to help recent graduates would be either to eliminate or raise that phase-out for student interest deductions.James W. SteinWashington, March 22, 2007To the Editor:
 Why should a future investment banker and a future elementary school teacher pay the same amount for college? They shouldn't. 
 To finance higher education, we should institute a lifelong flat-rate tithe on all earnings. The future banker would end up paying more in the long run, but that's how it should be. 
 Nobody would have to go into debt to go to college. And our young people could choose careers based on their real interests, not on their interest rates.Jonathan ZimmermanNew York, March 22, 2007The writer is a professor of education and history at N.Y.U.To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert raises a serious issue regarding a higher-education culture that is turning students into indentured servants for years. 
 Even as college administrators are emulating managers in the corporate world, including giving themselves lucrative compensation packages, students are left alone to shoulder the incoherent needs of society -- getting an education to improve the social lot and financing the lifestyles of those who care little about the national well-being. 
 It is not uncommon for students to emerge from college with $100,000 of debt and find themselves applying for jobs at corporations that are subsidized by taxpayer money through federal contracts. In such cases, students are doubly penalized and society loses twice. Wouldn't it be far better to subsidize students first? Anouar MajidPortland, Me., March 22, 2007The writer is chairman of the English department, University of New England.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Grady White) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); TUITION FEES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (60%); LAWYERS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Tuition; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: Bob Herbert; Steven J Nelson; David Dumitru; Diane Marett; James W Stein; Jonathan (Prof) Zimmerman; Anouar Majid

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



505 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Not So Free Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 ''Trade and the Home Front'' (editorial, March 17) correctly identifies the downward pressure on some wages created by imports as a reason for growing domestic opposition to free trade. But the remedies you recommend -- upgrading the Trade Adjustment Assistance program and better education -- are no more than palliatives for what is really torpedoing public support. 
China and other Asian countries routinely subsidize exports and domestic industries with below-market bank credit, tax holidays and undervalued currencies. For example, China's purchase of American dollars and securities to keep the yuan cheap creates more than a 20 percent subsidy on China's exports. 
 Were these mercantilist practices stopped, many more American products would flow out of West Coast ports to Asia. That would mean many more high-paying jobs for Americans than additional government largess could ever create. 
 If China and others won't remove their subsidies, the best United States policy is to impose countervailing duties and tariffs that remove the artificial advantages afforded Asian products. 
 That's not protectionism. It's self-defense.Peter Morici College Park, Md., March 19, 2007The writer, a professor at the University of Maryland School of Business, is a former chief economist at the United States International Trade Commission. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%) International Trade and World Market; Labor; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: Peter (Prof) Morici

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



506 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Ohio to Sell Bonds to Avert Home Foreclosures

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Ohio, which had the highest foreclosure rate in the nation at the end of last year, plans to issue $100 million in taxable municipal bonds next month to help homeowners refinance mortgages. 
 Proceeds of the bond issue by the Ohio Housing Finance Agency will finance 1,000 loans with a fixed rate of 6.75 percent, said Robert Connell, director of debt management at the agency.
''We believe that it is incumbent on this agency to do something to assist these folks to enable them to keep their homes,'' Mr. Connell said. ''A $100 million bond from this agency is not going to solve Ohio's foreclosure problem. We hope to at least make a dent.''
 A survey on March 13 by the Mortgage Bankers Association found that Ohio had the highest rate of homes in foreclosure. The state, whose economy has suffered declines in manufacturing, also had the highest rate of subprime loans in foreclosure. Subprime mortgages are granted to people with poor credit histories or high debts and often have rates at least 2 or 3 percentage points above prime loans.
 Gov. Ted Strickland, a Democrat, has formed a panel to stem foreclosures. The group will develop strategies to help homeowners facing foreclosure and to educate buyers.
 Ohio will roll out the program on April 2, Mr. Connell said. The loans will be limited to homeowners whose income is up to 125 percent of the median income of their county.
 ''It will be available to the residents of Ohio to take them out of their adjustable-rate mortgages, their interest-only mortgages, and avail them the opportunity to move into a fixed-rate mortgage, which may now benefit their individual financial situation,'' he said.
 George K. Baum & Company of Kansas City, Mo., will manage the bond sale. The bonds will be taxable because the federal tax code prohibits states and local governments from using proceeds of tax-exempt bonds to refinance existing mortgages, Mr. Connell said.
 The bankers' association survey found the foreclosure rate in Ohio across all loan types was 3.38 percent. Indiana was second highest, with 2.97 percent. Ohio also led the nation will 11.32 percent of subprime loans in foreclosure.
 Lawmakers in California and New Jersey said Friday that they planned hearings on subprime lending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (95%); BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%) Housing; Government Bonds; Foreclosures; Mortgages

COMPANY: GEORGE K BAUM & CO (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%)

PERSON: TED STRICKLAND (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



507 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Unwary Investors

 BODY:
Mania is an established feature of stock markets. But in this week's upswings, investors have seemed especially heedless of dangers lurking in the economy.
 On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve signaled that it was neutral on what its next interest rate move would be. Investors immediately took that as implicit assurance that the Fed would cut rates -- presumably bolstering growth -- if the economy slumped along with the mortgage market. So, traders jumped in big time, driving stock prices up across the board. In the absence of any other market-moving news, traders settled down on Thursday and Friday, with the market basically holding on to the gains it had achieved at midweek. 
Those predictable market reactions mask a lot of reasons to worry. First, investors may be wrong about an impending interest rate cut. Inflation is still well above policy makers' preferred range, which could make the Fed reluctant to reduce rates. The Fed's inflation fears would be stoked further if a slowdown in the economy precipitated a drop in the dollar, thus driving up the cost of imported goods. A dollar decline would be a good possibility if global investors soured on dollar-based investments, like mortgage-backed securities. 
 Even if the Fed cut rates, there is a grim chance that lower rates would simply not be enough of a stimulant to overcome the drag of falling housing and mortgage markets. A significant economic downturn in the United States could have global repercussions, requiring global coordination to manage and ameliorate. 
 Investors who fail to take a hard look at the vulnerability of the American economy are courting tremendous risk. The fact that after years of profligacy the federal government is fiscally ill prepared to respond to a destabilizing downturn only increases those risks. The Fed might -- or might not -- be able to engineer a rescue. In the global economy, the past performance of Fed rate cuts is no indication of future results. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BONDS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); IMPORT PRICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Editorials; United States Economy; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



508 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; MERRITT ISLAND JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: The Shuttle May Go, But the Stories Will Linger

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

DATELINE: MERRITT ISLAND, Fla. 

 BODY:
The old-timers still talk of manned rockets and raucous nights at the space cowboy roadhouses, the Moon Hut and the Mouse Trap, places where yesterday's gravity resisters could raise a beer to honor the Moon and missions thereabouts.
 Since those days, a whole generation has known space travel only by the shuttle, its orbital perambulations practically terrestrial by comparison. But in a quarter-century of blastoffs here, that bulky, snub-nosed, imperfect craft has gained its own set of admirers and collectors along this space coast. 
''We watched this huge monument leave the planet. It was awesome; it was goose bumps,'' said Brenda Mulberry, owner of the Space Shirts souvenir shop. ''Every one's been just as exciting to me.''
 Now comes the long goodbye.
 On presidential orders to return to lunar exploration, NASA has vowed to retire its shuttle fleet by 2010, leaving the last scheduled missions to the whims of weather, mechanics and luck. The next launching of the Atlantis awaits repairs to the bruises from an earthbound storm.
 ''Because the spaceflights are sporadic, there's 14 of them left if I'm not wrong,'' said Scott Andrews, a camera company representative who developed a trigger system for photographing active launching pads. ''People are looking at the big draw for the area now as the cruise ports.''
 Around Merritt Island and the nearby towns about 45 miles east of Orlando, the impending shuttle retirement can evoke memories of 1972, when the end of the Apollo program set parts of the local economy adrift. But today the side-by-side hotels of Cocoa Beach are filled with college students on spring break, the Denny's restaurants are filled with retired couples, and the Port Canaveral billboards list the departures of five cruise lines. It is not Walt Disney World East, but then, the century is young.
 Amid all that business, the space shuttle occupies the kind of sentimental hole other cities plug with sports franchises. After 116 missions, several triumphs, two great disasters and a general loss of interest in many quarters of the country, hope, resolve and some measure of nostalgia resound in a place where the telephone area code is 3-2-1 and where, the tourism board says, ''dreams are launched.''
 NASA has announced intentions to deploy a new craft called Orion by 2015, and Ms. Mulberry has already started rendering it on T-shirts.
 ''This new rocket is a little difficult, I will tell you,'' she said, holding a design that incorporated pictures of Earth, the Moon, some satellites and a couple of manatees. ''It's not as pretty as the shuttle.''
 Ms. Mulberry came here in the early days of the shuttle program and found a husband at Bernard's Surf, a legendary astronaut haunt.
 ''He told me he worked on the space shuttle,'' she said. ''I laughed at him. I said, 'What's a space shuttle?' ''
 Today a rocking two-seater shuttle replica sits outside her store, and an inflatable shuttle hangs from the ceiling. ''The T-shirts will continue, whether they build a new vehicle or they don't,'' Ms. Mulberry said. ''But I believe they will. I believe we're going to the Moon again.''
 Across the Indian River in Titusville, where the better bars advertise ''Bikers Welcome,'' the Shuttle Car Wash and Space Shuttle Fuels pay modest tribute. The Columbia and the Challenger are depicted on license plates.
 At the Best Western Space Shuttle Inn, Room 178 has a bed with a distinctive black-and-white nose for a headboard and rudders and elevons at the base. A portal on the wall depicts Earth as seen from space. The room costs $139 a night, a $60 premium over its neighbors.
 ''Sometimes locals will call up and say, 'Hey, you got the space shuttle room open?' '' said Cindy Schellenberg, a desk agent. ''People stay here on full nights and say, 'That's the weirdest room I've ever stayed in.' ''
 The decor dates to a long-ago owner whose name has slipped Ms. Schellenberg's mind, a Dutchman who drove a shuttle replica built atop a motorcycle. The hotel, she said, will probably keep its name.
 ''I hate to see the shuttle program end, but there's always enthusiasm for the next step,'' Ms. Schellenberg said. ''I'd like to see them go to the Moon.''
 Out on the road to the launching pad, Shuttles Bar and Grill is decorated with eight-foot portraits of the craft in flight. A sign on the door says ''Shoes and Shirt Required; No One Under 21 After 9 p.m.; Non-Smoking Not Available.''
 Inside the place is a roadhouse of the classic American style, complete with barn ceiling, pool table and lighting fixtures by Budweiser. In some photographs astronauts pose in orange flight suits and 1980s haircuts; in others the shuttle and its rocket boosters roar into cloudless skies trailed by golden plumes of fire.
 ''I hope they don't shut it down, because that's why we're here,'' said a waitress, Kim Kolata, 24. ''I remember, as a kid, coming up here. The shuttle launch would go off. You'd feel the ground shake. It was pretty exciting.''
 Ms. Kolata was reminded of NASA's plan to return to the Moon, an adventure that has not been tried in her lifetime, not since the days of the fearless test pilots who drank at the Moon Hut. She gazed away for a second, seeming to gather her thoughts.
 ''Do you think,'' she asked, ''they really went to the Moon?''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brenda Mulberry owns Space Shirts, a local souvenir shop.
 Brian and Becky Bosarge dine at Shuttles Bar and Grill, a classic roadhouse in Merritt Island, Fla. The restaurant's interior is decorated with photographs of astronauts and other NASA images, while the exterior, below, entices visitors with an eight-foot portrait of the shuttle in flight. (Photographs by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); CRUISES (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (75%); MARINE SHIPPING (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%) Space; Space Shuttle; Apollo Project; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hotels and Motels; Restaurants; Ships and Shipping; Cruises

COMPANY: DENNY'S CORP (53%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (53%)

TICKER: DENN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (53%)

PERSON: Michael Brick

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) EARTH'S MOON (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Merritt Island (Fla); Cocoa Beach (Fla); Port Canaveral (Fla); Merritt Island (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



509 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Consider Deal For Passage Of Trade Pacts

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
Democrats in Congress are mulling a proposal to the Bush administration intended to resolve disagreements over labor, environmental and other issues blocking approval of pending trade deals, Congressional and administration officials said Friday. 
 The officials said that the proposal, if endorsed by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other leading Democrats, could lead to bipartisan agreement on deals to lower trade barriers with Colombia, Panama, Peru and South Korea for possible Congressional approval this year.
An accord on these trade deals could, in turn, lead to broader negotiations over a global trade agreement and extension of the president's authority to negotiate future trade deals and get an expedited vote on them. That authority expires on June 30 and Democrats are now opposed to extending it.
 Few details of the proposal were disclosed, but officials said that a series of proposals was the subject of a meeting Friday afternoon between Speaker Pelosi and Representative Charles B. Rangel, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
 Democrats have long demanded that as a price for supporting trade agreements, the Bush administration must incorporate requirements that trading partners adhere to international labor standards, including the right to organize unions, and a ban on slave labor and discrimination. Until now the administration has refused.
 But with the Democrats taking control of Congress this year, the administration has relented and offered certain limited guarantees on labor and environmental issues last month as a compromise. Democrats have been working since then on a response. The meeting Friday was a sign that the pace of the talks has quickened.
 But administration officials caution that time may be running out because trade deals have to be submitted to Congress at least 90 days before the expiration of presidential authority to negotiate them. That timetable dictates an agreement by the end of next week, they say.
 ''Discussions with Chairman Rangel have been very positive,'' said an administration official, on condition he not be named because of the delicate stage of the talks. ''We are awaiting a specific proposal so that we can continue to find a way forward. Clearly, the sooner we get a proposal, the sooner we can get an agreement.''
 Republicans have argued against trade deals that include sweeping labor guarantees, which they say could be used in lawsuits to give American workers more rights to strike or to organize in the United States.
 Both sides have said that the labor issue has been the most contentious one, but that other issues must also be resolved. For example, the Democrats want future trade deals to require trading partners to live up to certain environmental standards.
 Many experts say that even if the Democrats get language on labor, environmental and other guarantees, most Democrats would likely oppose the trade accords. They could still pass if most Republicans voted yes, as they would be expected to do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (66%); LITIGATION (66%) International Trade and World Market; Labor; Environment; Law and Legislation; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; International Trade and World Market; Organized Labor

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (73%); CHARLES B RANGEL (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (93%); COLOMBIA (93%) United States; Colombia; Panama; Peru; South Korea 

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



510 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Foreigners Get Benefit Of Tax Cut

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
A 2003 tax cut that President Bush promoted as a way to create jobs in the United States includes a provision that has given some foreign companies a financial advantage over their American competitors by making it cheaper for them to raise capital.
 The heart of the issue is in the treatment of the payments to investors as either interest, like bond payments, or as dividends, from stocks, which qualify for a lower tax rate under the 2003 law. Foreign companies can sell securities known as hybrids, which are bonds with interest payments that are treated as dividends and taxed at the lower rate. The option is unavailable to American companies.
The advantage under the 2003 law can be significant. It can cost an American company as much as $540 million more than a foreign company to pay $1 billion to United States investors.
 The administration has generally kept silent about this advantage, which was widely known in tax circles. Last June, the Internal Revenue Service quietly told Congress that it planned to study the issue but no date has been set for completing that review. To qualify for the advantage, foreign companies sell bonds with no maturity date, known as perpetual debt, and arrange to trade them on American stock exchanges. 
 Investors in the United States must pay income taxes of as much as 35 percent on interest earned from lending money to American companies, but their tax is limited to just 15 percent on foreign bonds with no maturity date.
 Americans are taxed at the 15 percent rate on dividends, but for American companies, dividends paid on shares come from after-tax profits while foreign companies are allowed to deduct the cost of their payments on the hybrid bonds in their home countries. The use of this subsidy by some foreign companies was discerned from details in disclosure statements. The Royal Bank of Scotland and Prudential P.L.C., the British insurance company, confirmed that they are among the companies that have issued billions of dollars of securities tailored to take advantage of the 2003 tax law. 
 Carolyn McAdam, a Royal Bank of Scotland spokeswoman, said that ''these issues have always been oversubscribed by U.S. savers, and these savers are getting a higher interest on this money than'' they would by buying Treasury bonds. She said the company recently converted these debt instruments into preferred stock.
 Prudential said that it had raised $550 million this way and planned to issue more such securities. 
 Investors who buy the bonds can end up with more money in their pockets even if the bonds pay a lower rate than other corporate bonds of the same quality. That is because of the difference in tax rates between American corporate bonds and the foreign hybrids. 
 An American corporate bond that pays 6 percent interest produces after-tax income of 3.9 percent for taxpayers in the top tax bracket. But buyers of foreign hybrids would have more money in their pocket on a bond that pays as little as 4.6 percent interest. 
 While individual investors benefit, the 2003 law allows foreign companies to raise capital at a lower cost than American companies. 
 The competitive advantage for foreign companies was not in the administration's original proposal, which was intended to make dividends flow tax-free to investors provided that they were paid from profits that had been taxed by the United States. This follows from the Bush administration's effort to tax income from capital only once, not first as corporate profits and then as income to individuals. Bond interest, including that from the foreign hybrids, is taxed once, when the investors receive the money.
 The foreign subsidy was created during 48 hours of deal making behind closed doors during which the tax-free proposal became a law taxing most dividends at 15 percent. Until this law, individuals paid taxes on wages, interest and dividends at the same rate.
 Congress does not require members who had provisions added to tax bills to identify themselves publicly nor to identify who requested, or would benefit, from such additions. At the time Democrats, who were then the minority, complained that Republicans cut them out of the process of reworking the bill. 
 On the surface, the provisions appeared to bar companies with their tax headquarters in places like Bermuda and the Cayman Islands from qualifying for the 15 percent rate on dividends. But other provisions effectively undid that prohibition and, in doing so, opened the door wide for companies to gain an advantage and offer the hybrid securities.
 Dean Baker, an economist and author of ''The Conservative Nanny State'' (Center for Economic and Policy Research, 2006), a critique of Bush administration economic and social policies, said that ''it makes no sense to give foreign corporations a lower cost of capital than American companies.''
 Most important, he said, is that taxing dividends at a different rate from interest ''encourages gaming the system,'' making it harder to enforce the tax law fairly.
 Yesterday, one Democrat in Congress who has long fought tax shelters introduced legislation to halt the subsidy.
 ''Why are we spending American taxpayer dollars to subsidize foreign companies?'' asked the congressman, Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts. ''I'll be taking a serious look at this issue in the Ways and Means Committee, and if the Bush administration believes this provision is worthwhile, they should step forward publicly and justify its place in our tax code.''
 The Treasury Department would say little beyond calling the tax cut ''an unqualified success.'' ''I don't have any comment'' except for passing on a printed reference to the I.R.S. plan to study the issue, Brookly McLaughlin, the Treasury deputy assistant secretary for public affairs, said in e-mail messages responding to requests for further information.
 At the White House, Tony Fratto, the deputy press secretary and a former public affairs officials at the Treasury Department, said that he did not ''know if this particular friction in the tax code was considered in 2003 -- most of the policy makers who worked on the legislation are no longer in the administration.''
 Mr. Fratto noted ''this particular provision was not in the administration's tax proposal to Congress.''
 ''I'm not certain how administration and Congressional analysts determined the follow-on impacts of every provision in what is the world's most complex tax code.''
 He added that ''it is less than reasonable -- and probably not desirable -- to expect that the U.S. tax code be perfectly harmonized with all other countries.''
 Peter C. Canellos, who headed the tax department at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz until entering semiretirement, said it was still a mystery as to how the provisions got into the 2003 tax cut bill.
 ''Like a lot of tax law, it's not there because it makes good sense,'' he said. ''It's just there.''

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''How an American Tax Rule Benefits Foreign Companies''Some foreign companies are taking advantage of an obscure provision of a 2003 tax law to gain a financial advantage over their American counterparts. Chart assumes companies and individuals pay highest tax rates.To raise money, American companies must choose from one of two sets of rules . . .BONDSCOMPANYInterest paid INVESTORInterest$100 collected: Tax$100 paid: 35Net gain to investor: Total$65 tax cost: STOCKSCOMPANYDividend$35 paid: Tax$100 cost: 54Net cost to company: INVESTORDividend$154 collected: Tax$100 paid: 15Net gain to investor: Total$85 tax cost: $69. . . but foreign companies can mix the rules to their advantageBONDSCOMPANYInterest paid: STOCKS$100 & BONDSINVESTORDividend collected: Tax$100 paid: 15Net gain to investor: Total$85 tax cost: $15(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%) Taxation; Foreign Investments; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL PLC (82%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%) Internal Revenue Service

TICKER: PUK (NYSE) (82%); PRU (LSE) (82%); K6S (SGX) (82%); 2378 (HKSE) (82%); RBS (NYSE) (66%); RBS (LSE) (66%); RBS (AMS) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



511 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Existing-Home Sales Rise Most in 3 Years

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes rose in February by the largest amount in nearly three years, but worsening troubles in subprime mortgages were viewed as a roadblock to a full-fledged rebound. 
 The National Association of Realtors reported on Friday that existing-home sales climbed 3.9 percent last month, pushed higher by a milder-than-normal winter that increased sales in some areas like the Northeast.
It was the biggest one-month gain since March 2004 and left sales at an annual rate of 6.69 million units, a pace that was still 3.6 percent below a year ago.
 Existing-home sales were up 14.2 percent in the Northeast, a gain attributed in large part to warmer-than-normal weather.
 Sales were also up in the Midwest, by 3.9 percent, and showed a 1.6 percent rise in the South. Sales were unchanged in the West, with analysts assigning part of the blame to a reluctance by sellers in that region to cut prices to attract buyers.
 Even with the increase in sales, the median price of homes kept falling, dropping to $212,800 in February, down 1.3 percent from a year earlier. That was a record seventh consecutive decline in prices, measured by comparing them to the month a year earlier.
 After five years in which sales set new records, sales of existing homes dropped by 8.5 percent last year, the biggest annual decline in 17 years.
 The Realtors' report said that the inventory of unsold homes rose in February to 3.75 million units, up 5.9 percent from the January level.
 Economists are now concerned that rising defaults in subprime mortgages -- the loans offered to borrowers with weak credit -- will lead to tighter lending standards that will make it harder for new buyers to qualify for loans. As borrowers default on their mortgages, their properties will be added to an already glutted market.
 David Lereah, chief economist for the Realtors, said demand for homes could be cut by 150,000 to 200,000 annually over this year and 2008 because of the lending troubles.
 ''Our view is that the tightening in the subprime market will have a negative impact on home sales,'' Mr. Lereah said. ''It probably won't postpone the recovery but it will slow it.''
 Even with the problems in the subprime market, Mr. Lereah said that he believed that the upturn in sales would prove to be sustainable and that the data would show that housing hit bottom in September last year and is now rebounding.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Competing real estate signs on a street corner in Eugene, Ore. Sales of existing homes rose 3.9 percent in February, pushed higher by a milder-than-normal winter that encouraged buying in some areas. (Photo by Ty Wright/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%) Housing; Mortgages; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Inventories (Economic Indicator); Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%) National Assn of Realtors

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (59%) OREGON, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



512 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Civilians Heading to Iraq To Aid Local Development

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and JAMES GLANZ; Thom Shanker reported from Washington, and James Glanz from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
Ten veteran diplomats and four representatives of the Agency for International Development will depart for Iraq in coming days as the civilian core of 10 new provincial reconstruction teams, the first step in what the Bush administration has promised will be a significant increase in efforts to accelerate local economic and political development.
 State Department and Pentagon officials said that these additional team members were leaving on schedule. 
Still, the pace of the political and economic buildup is expected to be behind that of the military's, and some military commanders have been asking why they have not seen much in the way of assistance for the president's new Iraq strategy from the rest of the civilian agencies of the United States government.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, meeting with the new reconstruction team members on Friday, said, ''I do believe that we learned an important lesson during our time in Iraq, which is that we don't want to just try and build, and help the Iraqis build a stable, democratic society from the top down, but also from the bottom up.
 ''And that means that they have to have good local and provincial leadership, that they have to have good local and provincial governance, economic development. They have to be able to respond to the needs of their people. This is not a country that has had a concept of local governance and local leadership but rather one that was very much all centered in Baghdad, and we're now trying to help them to build that.''
 There are currently about 10 reconstruction teams working in Iraq but they have been burdened by a myriad problems. 
 American officials who have firsthand experience with the reconstruction team program say that it has been hampered by a surfeit of active duty or retired military participants who have lacked some of the expertise -- such as in agriculture, energy and economics -- that civilian government employees have, and by having too few people over all.
 ''There just aren't any bodies on these teams anywhere,'' said a State Department official who directly observed the formation of one current reconstruction team outside Baghdad. The official was not authorized to speak to the press.
 Another problem has been the teams' ability to move within Iraq.
 The current leader of the provincial reconstruction program in Iraq, Maj. Gen. Rick Olson, retired, acknowledged in a recent press briefing in Baghdad that heavy security restrictions had consistently kept the civilian teams from doing as basic a part of their business as meeting with local Iraqi officials.
 ''It's literally impossible for our P.R.T. officials to get out and go where they want to go,'' General Olson said.
 On Friday, David Satterfield, the State Department's senior adviser on Iraq, said these security issues now had been resolved for the new provincial reconstruction teams.
 ''We have a memorandum of agreement with the Defense Department on all of those issues that involve the functioning of these teams, life support and security,'' Mr. Satterfield said. ''Yes, that's fully worked out.''
 One of the new reconstruction team members preparing to leave for Iraq, Stephen Fakan, who has served with the State Department in Central America, Africa and the Middle East, stressed the importance of leaving the confines of the military forward operating bases that will be home for team members over the next year and working directly with Iraqis.
 ''You have to get out and show the people that we are going to do the job with them, and not for them,'' Mr. Fakan said. 
 Six of the new teams will be in Baghdad, three in restive Anbar Province to the west and one in Babil Province to the south.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government ; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%) Agency for International Development

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%) Thom Shanker; James Glanz; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007



513 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Unexpectedly Increase

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS; AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes unexpectedly rose in February by the largest amount in nearly three years, but some analysts expressed concerns that the recovery for the housing industry will be slowed by spreading troubles in subprime mortgage lending. 
 The National Association of Realtors reported Friday that sales of existing homes rose 3.9 percent last month, pushed higher by a sharp increase in sales activity in the Northeast. It was the biggest increase since a similar increase in March 2004.
Purchases increased in three of the four regions of the country -- rising 14.2 percent in the Northeast, 3.9 percent in the Midwest and 1.6 percent in the South. Purchases were unchanged in the West.
 The price of a median home sold last month dropped to $212,800, down 1.3 percent from the same month in 2006. It marked a record seven consecutive months that the median home prime has fallen compared to the same period a year ago.
 Analysts said the price declines were helping to lure buyers back into the market. But analysts expressed concerns about what the growing problems in the subprime lending market will do to the sales prospects.
 David Lereah, chief economist for the Realtors, said he believed that demand for homes could be cut by 150,000 to 200,000 annually over this year and 2008 because of the lending troubles.
 ''Our view is that the tightening in the subprime market will have a negative impact on home sales,'' Mr. Lereah said. ''It probably won't postpone the recovery (in housing) but it will slow it.''
 By region of the country, sales were up 14.2 percent in the Northeast, a gain that was attributed in part to warmer-than-normal weather this winter, which spurred sales.
 Sales of existing homes were up 3.9 percent in the Midwest and 1.6 percent in the South, while sales were unchanged in the West. Mr. Lereah said the reluctance of sellers in the West to trim prices was holding back a rebound in that region.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (Photo by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); SALES & SELLING (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2007



514 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: How to Improve It? Ask Those Who Use It

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FITZGERALD. 
Michael Fitzgerald is a Boston-area writer on business, technology and culture. E-mail: mfitz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
DR. NATHANIEL SIMS, an anesthesiologist at Massachusetts General Hospital, has figured out a few ways to help save patients' lives. 
 In doing so, he also represents a significant untapped vein of innovation for companies.
Dr. Sims has picked up more than 10 patents for medical devices over his career. He ginned up a way to more easily shuttle around the dozen or more monitors and drug-delivery devices attached to any cardiac patient after surgery, with a device known around the hospital as the ''Nat Rack.''
 His best innovation to date, he says, involved modifying a drug infusion pump routinely used in hospitals to dispense the proper doses of medicine. Dr. Sims, an accomplished pilot, noticed in the mid-1980s that he could obtain navigation information from regularly updated databases. He wondered why doctors couldn't use a device preprogrammed with the necessary data to figure out dosages themselves. From 1987 to 1992, he and a small team built an electronic device that worked with an existing pump to provide patients with the correct does of the proper drug. Alaris Medical Systems was the first established medical supply firm to use the technology. 
 David L. Schlotterbeck, the chief executive of Alaris, bet the company on the device. It was a good wager. The smart pump now brings in $700 million in sales -- more than Alaris's overall revenue of $534 million in 2003, the year before the company was sold to Cardinal Health. 
 What Dr. Sims did is called user-driven innovation by Eric von Hippel, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management. Mr. von Hippel is the leading advocate of the value of letting users of products modify them or improve them, because they may come up with changes that manufacturers never considered. He thinks that this could help companies develop products more quickly and inexpensively than with their internal design teams. 
 ''It could drive manufacturers out of the design space,'' Mr. von Hippel says.
 It is a difficult idea for research and development departments to accept, but one of his studies found that 82 percent of new capabilities for scientific instruments like electron microscopes were developed by users. 
 Citizen product design is still unsung, but it has already become a force in software, especially gaming software. ''Counter-Strike,'' a player-created ''mod'' (for modification to the original game) of ''Half-Life,'' became as popular as the original game. Apache, the popular open-source Web server software, or the Firefox Internet browser, with its thousands of add-ons and plug-ins, also depend on users to develop innovations. Large companies like I.B.M. are increasingly turning to open-source techniques in their own software development.
 It may also drive economic growth, Mr. von Hippel says. While Dr. Sims has no interest in starting a company, many people like him will do exactly that. Burton Snowboards, for instance, grew out of modifications that Jake Burton Carpenter made to a product called the Snurfer. He added a binding for the feet so that Snurfer riders no longer had to guide it by a rope on its nose. 
 SawStop makes a table saw that automatically stops within five milliseconds when it comes into contact with a user's finger or thumb. The blade leaves the user with a small nick or cut, but the digit remains intact. It was invented by Stephen Gass, a patent lawyer who liked woodworking and thought that making a table saw safer was an interesting challenge.
 One problem with the user-innovation model is that it can run into intellectual property rights protections. But the potential for creating new companies has led the government of Denmark to establish user-driven innovation as a policy. It found that Danish companies tended not to push for technological innovation, so user innovation may be the way to help them compete more effectively in a global economy. 
 Denmark may be the perfect testing ground for citizen product design, says Christopher Lettl, who six months ago left his native Germany to become professor of user-driven innovation at the University of Aarhus School of Business in Denmark. He thinks that Danish culture's focus on the concept of ''janteloven,'' which holds that no person is better than another, may make companies more open to ideas from their users. The Danish company Lego is famous for tapping customers to help develop its Mindstorms NXT robotics kit.
 Skeptics argue that Denmark is both small -- population, 5.4 million -- and a backwater of innovation, and thus has little to lose in trying something new. They might also point out that even in Denmark, Mr. von Hippel's ideas are up against more conventional forms of user-aided design, such as sending anthropologists to study how people use products in their daily lives. Companies then translate their research into new designs. 
 Even some of Mr. von Hippel's acolytes remain cautious. ''A lot of this is still in the category of, 'You could imagine this working out really well,' '' says Saul T. Griffith, who as an M.I.T. engineering student was part of a group of kite-surfers who developed products for their sport that have since become commercialized. Mr. von Hippel wrote about Mr. Griffith in his 2005 book, ''Democratizing Innovation.'' 
 Still, Mr. Griffith can cite a long tradition of user design. One of his favorite examples comes from the title article in Tom Wolfe's 1965 book, ''The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby,'' which chronicled car customizers whose innovations -- tailfins, double headlights, low-slung bodies -- were later adopted by Detroit. Mr. Griffith says that even now, millions of people modify their cars, far more people than the world's automakers could ever employ in research and development. 
 There is currently no effective way for companies to harness the ideas of those millions. But the Web -- itself created by Tim Berners-Lee, an Internet user looking to do something new -- seems to offer an excellent potential idea-gatherer. Mr. Griffith's industrial design firm, Squid Labs , last year spun off a do-it-yourself community site on the Web called the Instructables, which features items as diverse as the Minty Boost iPod power source, dachshund wheelchairs and guns made entirely of K'nex toys, along with detailed instructions on how to build them. The Instructables intends to offer software to companies that want to build communities of citizen product developers.
 Mr. von Hippel, who has spent 30 years waiting for his ideas to take hold, says that as user communities like the Instructables spread, they will dominate innovation. He calls them ''the dark matter of innovation.''
 User-driven innovation may still be in its infancy, but it is clear that companies should keep an eye open to whether something is rosy in the state of Denmark.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric von Hippel of M.I.T., left, and Dr. Nathaniel Sims, with hospital devices Dr. Sims has modified. Mr. von Hippel says users can improve on products. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (87%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (84%); HOSPITALS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); PATENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ELECTRON MICROSCOPES (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (60%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (60%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (60%) Inventions and Patents

COMPANY: CAREFUSION CORP (55%)

TICKER: CFN (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Michael Fitzgerald

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



515 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Are Tax Revenues Flashing Red or Green?

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
AT Wal-Mart, whose sales depend on the fortunes of the broad consuming public, sales growth has been sluggish. At Saks, which caters to shoppers with more disposable income, sales growth has been impressive. It's as if these two national retailers are operating in two different economies. 
 A similar dynamic can be seen in recent state and federal tax revenues. After several years of impressive growth, state tax revenues seem to have hit a wall in the second half of 2006. According to the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany, in the last two quarters of 2006, taxes collected by the states rose 4.6 percent and 4.3 percent, respectively, from the comparable 2005 quarters. Adjusted for inflation, however, revenues barely budged. Those second-half growth rates, the weakest since 2003, represented sharp declines from the near-double-digit rates in the first half. 
 ''The picture for the fourth quarter is cautionary,'' said Richard Nathan, co-director of the Rockefeller Institute.
 While the blistering growth rate of Federal tax revenues has slowed, revenues are still rising at an unexpectedly high rate, narrowing the deficit and providing vindication for backers of President Bush's 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. In the fourth quarter of 2006, according to the Treasury Department, federal receipts rose 8.17 percent from the quarter a year earlier. For the first five months of the current fiscal year, which started in October, federal tax receipts were up 9.3 percent. ''There's no sign of a slowdown at the federal level like the one showing up at the state level,'' said Aviva Aron-Dine, a policy analyst at the center for Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington.
 What accounts for the difference? Broadly speaking, the trends of state and federal tax revenues are tethered to the economy at large. But the structure of the two tax systems can produce divergent results, especially when economic gains are not distributed evenly.
 At the state level, personal income taxes produce about 39 percent of revenues. But over all, state income taxes aren't very progressive -- because in many states, people pay the same tax rate regardless of their income. And several states, including populous ones like Florida and Texas, don't have an income tax. Sales taxes, which closely track the behavior of the broad consuming public, account for about 37 percent of state revenues. Combine these two features, and it means that state tax receipts, like Wal-Mart's sales, are more likely to depend on how much the average consumer is earning and spending. 
 In terms of recent revenue growth, at least, the federal government is more like Saks. Its taxes derive largely from payroll and income taxes, with a significant contribution from corporate income taxes. The federal income tax is progressive, with brackets from 10 percent to 35 percent. So an economy in which corporations and high-income workers are thriving, and in which median incomes are barely budging, would still produce a large increase in tax revenue. 
 That's precisely what has happened in recent years. As corporate profits have increased sharply, corporate income taxes soared to $353.9 billion in fiscal 2006 from $131.8 billion in fiscal 2003. And as Emmanuel Saez, professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, has noted, the incomes of the top 1 percent rose dramatically from 2003 to 2005, from 14.9 percent of the total to 17.4 percent. 
 The combination of rising corporate profits and rising income for those in high tax brackets has produced a gusher of federal revenue. Federal tax receipts rose 12.7 percent in 2005 and 11.75 percent in 2006, according to the Office of Management and Budget, far outpacing the growth rate of the economy, and of state tax revenues. 
 ''Because the income tax is so concentrated, a shift in income to those in the higher brackets will boost revenues more than the economy as a whole will grow,'' said Max Sawicky, economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a research organization in Washington.
 So which tax coffers are now providing a more accurate picture of the overall economy? Some analysts say the state data, which more closely mirrors the experience and habits of typical consumers, can be an important coincident indicator. ''If you were to see a significant decline in the amount of state sales taxes, it would be a good indication that the economy is struggling,'' said Bert Waisanen, fiscal analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures in Denver.
 AT the federal level, however, growth in tax revenue is more likely to be a lagging indicator, especially when the economy is enjoying an investment boom, as it did in the 1990s and has done in recent years. Because they are rely so much on the profits and capital gains made by corporations and individuals, federal revenues tend to fall after investment bubbles pop, or when bull markets end. For example, federal revenues continued to fall in 2002 and 2003, long after the economy resumed growth in 2001. And while the housing sector peaked last year, many of the companies and investors that may lose money on housing and housing-related stocks won't be recognizing the losses until this year or next.
 In the meantime, the figures emanating from state treasuries, and from the federal Treasury, will likely echo the sense of confusion among analysts, who are unsure whether the recent slowdown in economic growth is temporary, or a harbinger of further declines. As the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee noted last week as it announced that it would leave interest rates unchanged: ''recent indicators have been mixed.''

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Tax Returns''Growth rates for federal tax revenues have stayed higher than those of the states.Graph tracks the growth rate (year over year) for Federal Tax Revenue and State Tax Revenue since 2004.(Sources by Treasury Dept.
 Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (70%) Taxation; States (US) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



516 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3115 words

HEADLINE: It's a Brawl. China's Gamblers Are the Prize.

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: MACAO 

 BODY:
LOOKING like a giant, twinkling Faberge egg, and topped by a 52-story hotel tower in the shape of a soaring lotus flower, the new Grand Lisboa casino here caters to tens of thousands of tourists, mostly Chinese. They crowd around 170 baccarat tables and yank levers on hundreds of slot machines in a round-the-clock gambling frenzy, making it quite clear why this tiny territory west of Hong Kong is known as ''Asia's Las Vegas.''
 The Grand Lisboa is also the crown jewel of a casino empire controlled by Stanley Ho, the strong-willed and secretive billionaire who for 40 years held the city's only gambling license. Mr. Ho maintained a lock on the gambling trade here despite longstanding allegations by government authorities worldwide that his casinos had ties to organized crime and were engaged in money laundering, loan sharking and prostitution (allegations that his competitors have been more than happy to keep in play).
 Today, five years after Mr. Ho's gambling monopoly expired, his casinos are under assault from a group of ambitious Las Vegas tycoons who are investing billions of dollars in a city that recently passed the Las Vegas Strip as the world's biggest gambling destination. 
 Enthused by the prospect of operating in China, home to the world's most fanatic gamblers, the Americans plan to transform this sleepy, former Portuguese colony into a glitzy wagerer's paradise, replete with luxury hotels, upscale shopping malls and, of course, lots of casinos. They also hope to bury Stanley Ho's old casino empire, a collection of smoky ballrooms that thrived for decades by offering no-frills gambling.
 ''Stanley Ho's not going to do very well,'' boasts Sheldon G. Adelson, chairman of the Las Vegas Sands Corporation and one of the big new investors here. ''He's always been a monopolist. He's never had to compete in a real market.''
 This tiny city, one of the most densely populated places on the planet, already looks like a enormous construction zone. The Wynn Macao hotel and casino, from the Vegas heavyweight Steve Wynn, opened last September. The MGM Mirage has a huge project going up next door. And Las Vegas Sands is building the world's biggest casino and convention center -- the nucleus of a mammoth, $12 billion development staged on a parcel of land reclaimed from the sea and rebranded as the ''Cotai Strip.''
 To counter this foreign invasion, Mr. Ho, 85, has announced a clutch of his own outsized projects, which include the Grand Lisboa, a pair of huge real estate and casino developments named Oceanus and Ponte 16, and a giant theme park called Fisherman's Wharf. 
 Mr. Ho declined repeated interview requests for this article, but a spokesman for his company, Sociedade de Jogos de Macao, or SJM, said Mr. Ho is confident he can meet the competitive threats posed by outsiders staking claims to the gambling boom. In other interviews, Mr. Ho has struck an equally confident tone. 
 ''Let me put it this way: We are the only gaming concessionaire which is rooted in Macao. Being a local enterprise, all the money I made I put it back and invest it in Macao,'' he said in an interview last month with Macao Closer, a local magazine. ''But the Americans, they make a lot of money, and it all goes back to Las Vegas.''
 Last year, 22 million tourists visited Macao -- up from about 7 million in 1999. Most visit the casinos. While Chinese workers make less than $150 a month, on average, many of them still have a remarkable propensity to gamble. 
 Consider this: the average table in Macao earns three times more than a comparable table in Las Vegas, according to C.L.S.A. Asia-Pacific Markets, the investment bank. And some of China's high rollers are placing $200,000 bets in exclusive V.I.P. rooms, which is one reason that Macao posted $6.9 billion in gambling revenue last year, outpacing Las Vegas.
 That's also why Mr. Ho is one of the world's biggest casino operators. His gambling company, according to regulatory filings, reported $4.3 billion in revenue in 2005, the most recent year for which that data is available. Harrah's is the only other gambling company that raked in more money.
 BUT the circuslike atmosphere here has only deepened the mystery surrounding Mr. Ho, whose long career is a touchstone for all the financial torrents that have washed across Macao -- and China as a whole -- in recent decades. Mr. Ho is a swashbuckling entrepreneur and state-sponsored gambling impresario who has had four wives and 17 children and now oversees a global empire that stretches from Brazil and Canada to Portugal and Iran. Although gambling remains the centerpiece of his holdings, he also owns Macao's biggest department store and its second-largest bank and has a stake in its budget airline.
 His friends point out that he has won accolades from the Vatican and has been pictured with George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Queen Elizabeth. His detractors point out that he has also befriended the North Korean leader Kim Jong-il. (Mr. Ho opened a casino in Pyongyang several years ago.)
 Here in Macao, Mr. Ho is a legend -- the man whose wealth helped build the city's roads, bridges and a 1,109-foot-tall landmark tower, as well as the city's ferry terminal and its international airport. For years, his supporters point out, his gambling concession accounted for nearly 70 percent of the city's tax revenue.
 ''He's the one who brought in the hydrofoils and connected Hong Kong to Macao. Before the boat took four and a half hours; now it's 50 minutes,'' says the Rev. Lancelot Rodrigues, 83, a retired Catholic priest who says he has known Mr. Ho for 40 years. ''He's the one who put Macao on the map.'' 
 Stanley Ho was born in 1921, into one of Hong Kong's wealthiest and most prominent families. His grandfather, who was of Chinese and European descent, was a comprador, or go-between, for Jardine Matheson, the legendary British trading house and power broker that once dominated the colony's maritime trade as well as its opium trade. Mr. Ho's uncle helped finance Sun Yat-sen, who led the overthrow of the Qing Dynasty in 1911 and founded the Chinese Republic. And his father was a comprador for the powerful Sassoon trading house.
 But in the 1930s, amid a global depression, Mr. Ho's father went broke and fled to Vietnam, leaving the family penniless. In 1941, after the Japanese occupied Hong Kong, Mr. Ho dropped out of college and fled with other refugees to Macao. There, he made his first fortune by helping to run a trading company that swapped goods with the Japanese in exchange for food to feed Macao's starving population, according to an account he gave to a local magazine here. 
 After the war, according to that account, Mr. Ho returned to Hong Kong a wealthy man. He built upon that success in 1962, when he helped form an investor group that won the exclusive right to run all of Macao's gambling operations. Mr. Ho had promised to bolster tourism by modernizing Macao and upgrading its infrastructure. But the main business of the original company -- Sociedade de Turismo e Diversoes de Macao, or STDM -- was gambling, which was legalized in Macao in 1847 after Hong Kong unseated the Portuguese colony as the region's major trading port.
 Although gambling has deep roots here, it didn't really flourish until the late 1980s, after China's economic reforms created a class of wealthy Hong Kong entrepreneurs eager to gamble at Mr. Ho's flagship, Casino Lisboa, known for its smoky gambling dens and a lobby teeming with prostitutes.
 According to gambling historians here, the bulk of Mr. Ho's gambling revenue came from V.I.P. rooms he subcontracted out to groups that lured Asia's high rollers to Macao; the subcontractors shared the gambling profits with Mr. Ho's casinos.
 Law enforcement officials and gambling analysts say that many of the V.I.P. room operators had links to Chinese organized crime groups known as triads.
 Mr. Ho said in a statement that he cooperated with the authorities in fighting organized-crime and triad activities.
 Gambling experts say that Mr. Ho's subcontracting of the V.I.P. rooms was an inspired business move because it required little investment on his part. It also essentially outsourced the collection of huge gambling debts. By subcontracting the V.I.P. rooms, Mr. Ho's casinos had only to provide the rooms, chips and dealers; the casino did not have to search for big customers, do background checks or ensure that the high rollers paid their debts.
 ''This was a useful way to maximize profits,'' says Davis Fong, a gambling expert at the University of Macao, about Mr. Ho's relationship with the V.I.P. room operators. ''He didn't need to invest a lot, just rely on the middleman and increase revenue. He could just sit there and make money.'' That cash spigot came under threat in 1999, when Portugal returned Macao to Chinese control after more than 440 years of colonial rule, and again in 2002, when Mr. Ho's license to retain a monopoly hold on gambling in the former colony was set to expire. On both occasions, Mr. Ho scrambled to soften the impact of the shifts. Worried about a Communist takeover in the late '90s, he continued to diversify his holdings, which came to include shipping, entertainment and real estate, while also relocating some of his investments offshore.
 He also tried to retain his control of Macao's gambling business by getting his monopoly license extended, but the fate of that effort was probably sealed when rival gangs fought for control of his V.I.P. rooms before China took control of the colony. A rash of shootings, stabbings and bombings occurred near Macao's casinos. An official working for Mr. Ho was murdered in Victoria Park in Hong Kong, and a senior Portuguese official who came to the city to help calm things down was shot in the face. Press accounts were filled with stories of gangsters terrorizing the city. The bloodletting ceased only after China took control of Macao and deployed its army to end gang warfare.
 Law enforcement officials never publicly accused Mr. Ho of being an organized-crime figure, but even Mr. Ho himself never denied that organized-crime figures operated in his casinos. In a written response delivered through his spokeswoman last week, Mr. Ho said: ''During the period before the liberalization and the crackdowns on organized crime, anyone involved in gaming was vulnerable to such accusations'' of having links to organized crime. He added that in his case, ''There has been no concrete evidence to back up such accusations.''
 Others say Mr. Ho has navigated complex relationships for years. ''Stanley Ho was involved in a lot of things,'' says Bertil Lintner, author of ''Blood Brothers,'' a book that chronicles the world of organized crime in Asia and Macao. ''It was impossible to run a casino in Macao without getting involved with the triads.''
 AT the time of the handover, there was already a sense among some people here that Mr. Ho's casino empire had grown too powerful. As a joke of the time went, Macao was not a territory with a casino company, but a casino company with a territory.
 ''The biggest concern at the time was the unsavory atmosphere'' in Macao, said Professor Fong at the University of Macao. ''There were so many criminal activities. So the city's new chief executive, one day after the handover, he said we'd like to use competition to clean up the market.''
 And so, in 2001, Macao began to open itself up to a new era of casino competition, setting the stage for a phenomenal tourism and gambling boom. With China's economy soaring and its residents being given more freedom to travel, millions of wealthy Chinese entrepreneurs flooded Macao.
 That's why 21 casino operators from around the world bid for a gambling license here a few years ago. Although Mr. Ho lost his monopoly in 2002, he still managed to secure one of just three major gambling concessions Macao awarded that year, pitting him against seasoned American casino operators like Mr. Wynn and Mr. Adelson.
 Yet Mr. Ho is used to operating in a Macao that once catered only to hard-core gamblers locked up in V.I.P. rooms, who chain-smoked and placed huge bets. Macao had no showgirls, no cabarets and few five-star hotels.
 The newly opened Wynn Macao is spectacularly plush; the $1 billion MGM Grand Macao will open at the end of this year, featuring a 600-room hotel and casino. And Mr. Adelson, of Las Vegas Sands, plans to bring Venice to Macao with an outsized hotel and casino called the Venetian; it will offer 500,000 square feet of gambling space and 6,000 slot machines.
 Partly because of his ambitious plans for Macao, the company that Mr. Adelson took public in 2004 now has a stock market capitalization of $32 billion, making it the world's most valuable gambling concern. When his Sands casino opened here in 2004, people broke doorways as they stampeded to enter. The Venetian represents an effort to take further advantage of that demand. ''This is just the tip of the iceberg,'' Mr. Adelson boasts.
 Still, analysts are hesitant to count out Mr. Ho. ''He's the kind of guy who won't accept defeat,'' says Ricardo Pinto, publisher of the Macao Closer magazine. ''This is a guy who was kidnapped by a gambler, held hostage in a casino. He was also threatened by the people that went into the gold trade. And he tried to grab that, too.''
 MR. HO -- a dapper billionaire with a penchant for ballroom dancing -- has been quietly plotting his counterattack and making deals everywhere, putting the chips in place to ensure that the Ho family dominates Macao for years to come.
 In a series of corporate maneuvers, Mr. Ho first placed his son, Lawrence Ho, 30, at the helm of a Hong Kong-listed company he controlled. Then he helped that company, Melco International Development, form a joint venture with Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd., one of Australia's biggest media and entertainment companies. The new joint venture, Melco PBL, is building several large casinos and hotels in the city. It went public in the United States last year and already carries a stock market valuation of $6.8 billion. 
 In another move, Mr. Ho's daughter Pansy, 44, who helped him manage his Shun Tak conglomerate, formed a joint venture with MGM Mirage, giving her a 50 percent stake in a company that is building some of Macao's biggest casinos. 
 Mr. Ho is also fortifying his own casino giant, SJM, by investing in dozens of real estate and casino projects around Macao, including the $800 million Oceanus casino, which is designed in the shape of a silvery ship. His latest show of strength, the opening of the Grand Lisboa to huge crowds over the Chinese New Year holiday, attracted about 500,000 visitors in 10 days, according to SJM.
 But to succeed, he must cope with something his competitors are not facing: a relentless series of attacks on his career and the means by which he amassed a privately held fortune that analysts estimate to be worth several billion dollars. 
 With regulators scrutinizing his every move, Mr. Ho resigned from Melco, allowing his son to take over. And according to his business advisers at SJM, Mr. Ho has effectively broken the company into two casino operators -- one company controlled by Mr. Ho's longtime managers and another group headed by Frank McFadden, who recently worked for Mr. Adelson at Las Vegas Sands.
 ''After a 40-year monopoly, there is inertia,'' Mr. McFadden said in an interview. ''We need to bring modern practices.''
 BUT Mr. Ho's past continues to haunt efforts to revitalize his casino empire. Though Mr. Ho has never been charged with a crime, gambling regulators in Canada, Australia, the Philippines and Singapore have repeatedly investigated Mr. Ho's background and have often blocked or discouraged his entry into their gambling markets. 
 Last month, Nevada regulators approved the MGM Mirage deal with Pansy Ho, but not without hinting at the sensitivity surrounding the Ho legacy.
 ''There are volumes of controversy surrounding Dr. Stanley Ho, both historic and present,'' one Nevada regulator told The Associated Press last month. ''From my perspective, he operates in an environment that is less transparent than I am comfortable with.''
 In a civil court case in Hong Kong involving a group of Chinese bank officials who were accused of fleeing to the United States from China with hundreds of millions of dollars, evidence has surfaced that some of the money was laundered through Mr. Ho's casinos.
 Mr. Ho's spokeswoman said the company has cooperated with Macao authorities to combat organized crime and that gambling activity in the city is strictly regulated. 
 Elsewhere in the United States, New Jersey casino regulators are examining Pansy Ho's deal with MGM Mirage. Assemblyman Richard A. Merkt, a former gaming regulator, called on state regulators to investigate Mr. Ho because of his concerns about Mr. Ho's possible organized-crime ties. Pansy Ho declined to comment for this article.
 For its part, the Justice Department said in a March 2006 report on narcotics control and money laundering that because of the old monopoly framework in Macao, ''organized crime groups were, and continue to be, associated with the gaming industry through their control of V.I.P. gaming rooms and activities such as racketeering, loan sharking and prostitution.''
 Turmoil is also brewing closer to home. Although Mr. Ho has announced plans to take SJM public in an offering that analysts say could raise $2 billion, the public offering has been mired in a legal battle with Winnie Ho, his sister.
 Winnie Ho has contended in a lawsuit filed in Macao that she actually provided most of the initial capital for the original company, S.T.D.M., in 1962, then helped run the company until 2001. But over the years, she says, her brother cheated her out of her shares and cheated investors out of $3.9 billion in dividends over four decades.
 Mr. Ho declined to comment on the lawsuit for this article but in court has disputed many of his sister's allegations. Ms. Ho declined to comment about the dispute. 
 Despite the opposition he faces on many fronts -- from gambling regulators, from new competitors in Macao and from his own family -- Mr. Ho appears undeterred. In his interview with Macao Closer, he talked brashly about his past and his future, saying he battled pirates during World War II and weathered death threats when he opened his first casinos. 
 And now, he says, he can battle the Vegas giants because his casino company is the toughest.
 ''You see, the word 'no' never appears in my dictionary,'' he said. ''All my life, I love challenges and never accept the answer 'no' so easily.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Grand Lisboa in Macao, which opened last month, is Stanley Ho's biggest response to the rush of competition that has poured in since Mr. Ho lost his 40-year monopoly license on gambling there. (Photo by Kin Cheung/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
The Grand Lisboa hotel and casino, above. At right is Stanley Ho with his daughter Pansy, who has formed a joint venture with MGM Mirage. (Photos by Kin Cheung/Associated Press, above
Dennis Owen/Bloomberg News, right)
A model of Macao's development, which will include the Las Vegas Sands complex. Looking on are William Weidner, the Sands' chief operating officer, left
Sheldon G. Adelson, the chairman, and his wife, Miriam. (Photo by Kin Cheung/Associated Press)(pg. 4)Chart: ''An Empire Built on a Gambling Monopoly''Stanley Ho has built one of Asia's richest and most powerful business empires on the back of an exclusive license to operate casinos in Macao, a former Portuguese colony. Macao was returned to Chinese control in 1999, and Mr. Ho lost his monopoly in 2002. The bulk of his fortune originally came from gambling, but he has diversified.Holding companyShun Tak Group/Shun Tak HoldingsMr. Ho is founder and chairman.Stanley Ho's main holding company, it has been listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange since 1973.The company owns or has large stakes in transportation, real estate and hotels.PROMINENT HOLDINGS/DEVELOPMENTSMacao Tower Convention and Entertainment CenterMandarin Oriental Hotel company, a 50 percent stake.One Central, a retail and residential complex in Macao on the NAPE waterfront.Shun Tak-China Travel Shipping Investments, which operates a fleet of high-speed ferries.Nova City, residential towers in Macao.Radcliffe, a luxury apartment complex in Hong Kong.Shun Tak owns 15.8 percentGamblingSTDM(Sociedade de Turismo e Diversoes de Macau)Mr. Ho is founder and managing director.Founded in 1962 to oversee the gambling operations in Macao.PROMINENT HOLDINGS/DEVELOPMENTSSeng Heng Bank Mr. Ho is the board's chairman.Macao International Airport Co.
 one-third stake. Mr. Ho is vice chairman.Mr. Ho owns 10 percentSTDM Investments owns 80 percentSJM(Sociedade de Jogos de Macau)Mr. Ho is managing director.Founded in 2001 to bid for new gambling licenses as STDM's monopoly on gambling ended.The company owns 17 casinos in Macao. It also was involved in developing Fisherman's Wharf in Macao.Other businessesMr. Ho owns, runs or is involved in developing a number of projects in Macao and around the world.PROMINENT HOLDINGS/DEVELOPMENTSMacau Jockey Club He is chairman of the board.Oceanus, a hotel and casino in Macao with a separate office/residential tower and retail outlets. Estimated cost: $780 million.Park Hyatt, a six-star hotel and casino on Macao's Taipa island.Nam Van, a retail and residential complex with a large hotel and casino in Macao. It is being developed with Emperor Entertainment, a Hong Kong company, and with the entertainer Jackie Chan. Estimated cost: $600 million.Shanghai Plaza. Mr. Ho owns 20 percent and Shun Tak Holdings has 15 percent.Le Meridien hotel in Vancouver, British Columbia. He bought it in 1988.Casino Pyongyang in the capital of North Korea. It opened in 1999.(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); LAND RECLAMATION (50%); RETAILERS (50%) Gambling; Casinos; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (85%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Grand Lisboa Casino (Macao)

TICKER: LVS (NYSE) (85%); MGM (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%)

PERSON: SHELDON G ADELSON (57%); STEPHEN A WYNN (53%) Stanley Ho; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (74%) NEVADA, USA (95%); EAST CHINA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); MACAO (95%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



517 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2521 words

HEADLINE: Theater's Alive With the Sound Of Laptops

BYLINE: By JESSE GREEN

 BODY:
AMONG the uncommon pleasures of the 2003 Broadway revival of ''Wonderful Town'' was that you could actually see the orchestra, arrayed like a decorative garland of brass and polished wood across an onstage bridge. Another was that there was enough of an orchestra to be worth seeing. Nearly matching the original 1953 instrumentation, the show's producers sprang for a hefty complement of 24 musicians. At least at first. 
 After a while, though, as is not unusual with shows anxious to maximize profit, the ensemble was cut back to 20, still well above the Al Hirschfeld Theater's house minimum of 14 (including conductor) as stipulated by agreement between the musicians union and the league of Broadway producers. If not exactly a symphony, this was a number capable of producing, with amplification, a moderately rich sound not unlike what the show's composer, Leonard Bernstein, might have imagined when he wrote it. 
But audiences attending a performance of the production's nonunion tour -- which stopped last Sunday at the Tilles Center on Long Island and continues on the road through May -- are seeing, and hearing, something quite different. The orchestra is down to 12 traditional instrumentalists, including four reeds and three horns, with only a lonely violin and cello to sweeten the mix. So why does it seem as dense as it did on Broadway? Why is the string sound so big, if not exactly Bernstein-y? 
 That would be the work of musician No. 13, sitting behind the reeds at a Qwerty keyboard attached to an ordinary PC running a software program called Notion and wired into the sound system. This copy of Notion has been loaded with all the string parts for ''Wonderful Town,'' broken down in individual instrumental lines that can be muted or played at will, all triggered by a finger tapping the rhythm on any key in the A-S-D-F row. If the conductor speeds up, so does the finger, and so does the music Notion produces. If the leading lady lingers over a note, or skips six bars, the finger can too. 
 Small as it is, that one finger, doing the work of hundreds, is the center of a controversy now playing out in amateur theaters and national markets and coming soon to Broadway. Already the musicians union has dug in its heels against the use of Notion and similar products. ''We're not Luddites opposed to technology,'' Mary Landolfi, president of Local 802, the American Federation of Musicians, said recently. ''But we feel that people come to the theater to hear live entertainment, and they should have it.''
 Critics have been denouncing nonlive -- or, more accurately, nontraditional -- instruments in Broadway pits for decades. At first the complaints were about the awful or just unwelcome sounds they made. Electric guitars and organs, imported from the world of pop music to go with the pop scores of the 1960s, offended purists, who mourned the loss of European-style orchestrations, heavy on strings and light on rhythm. When synthesizers started replacing instruments that producers wouldn't pay for or that couldn't fit in the ever-shrinking coffins to which orchestras were consigned, criticism shifted to the poor quality of the mimicry. Synthesized trumpets sounded like oboes and oboes like burglar alarms.
 The mimicry has improved tremendously in recent years. If the current production of ''The Sound of Music'' in London has a rich, symphonic sound, it's not just because of the string players (there are only 6, reduced from the original 12); it's because of three keyboards programmed to sound like strings. This feels wrong, but the proof is in the experience; and at least such patches, as they're called, require live players. At many small ballet companies around the United States, the orchestra is a tape, and in many schools putting on musicals, it's a pirated, karaoke-style CD. Even Broadway shows use click tracks and prerecorded accompaniment for parts of some numbers.
 But Notion and its more established competitor, a product made by Realtime Music Solutions and marketed under the names Sinfonia, OrchExtra and InstrumentalEase, represent a huge advance on those limited technologies. They are therefore a huge threat to advocates of entirely ''live'' music. For one thing, they are cheaper and more compact than older systems, which required a vanful of equipment and a dedicated tech nerd and cost thousands of dollars a week to rent. Notion comes on CDs that sell for about $600.
 These products are also cheaper and more compact than human musicians. They do not get sick or have bad nights. And after years of gradual improvements, their sound is now good enough to fool many nonexperts, especially since they are almost always used, as recommended, alongside traditional instruments. Their processing capacities are large enough that details of articulation and attack, vibrato and decay, can be reasonably approximated, if not gorgeously rendered. (Brass and bass drum, I mean you.) And the notes themselves are no longer digitally created but are based on thousands of samples from real instrumentalists. Notion's main sample source is the London Symphony Orchestra. 
 Why London? No American ensemble would cooperate. Nor has Notion been used on Broadway. The closest it's come was an industrial show for Enterprise Rent-a-Car at the Broadway Marriot Marquis hotel in October, where Sutton Foster and other musical stars sang with a 26-piece orchestra pumped up to symphonic density. No one seemed to notice the ringer.
 Sinfonia has come even closer. In 2004 it drew protests when used (along with several traditional instruments) to accompany a short-lived Off Broadway musical called ''The Joys of Sex.'' A year earlier, in anticipation of Local 802's strike against Broadway producers, shows including ''Les Miserables,'' ''Thoroughly Modern Millie'' and ''Oklahoma!'' prepared Sinfonia versions of their scores as a precaution -- and perhaps as a provocation. But no audience ever heard them; the strike lasted four days.
 The resulting contract expired three weeks ago, on March 4, but the house minimums stipulated within it remain in effect through 2013. Still, because those minimums are often breached by ''special situations'' (almost anything can be a special situation), and because emulation technology is not specifically banned in the old contract nor likely to be banned in the new one now being negotiated, the union remains wary. In picketing and press releases, it refers to products like Notion and Sinfonia as ''virtual orchestra machines'': a kind of alien in the pit. (Jeff Lazarus, the chief executive of Realtime, prefers the term instruments, and said the union's tactics amount to ''musical gerrymandering.'') Ms. Landolfi, of Local 802, further asserts that the technology interferes ''with the ability of creative teams to decide artistic issues without undue economic pressure.'' 
 Maybe. In an informal poll I asked members of such creative teams to consider this: You're reviving a show that depends on full orchestral sound, like ''South Pacific,'' which is in fact being revived in 2008. The maximum number of instrumentalists that the budget (and the pit) can accommodate is 20, far fewer than the original 31, but higher than the theater's minimum of, say, 15. Having preserved jobs by hiring those 20 musicians, would you then consider using a technology like Sinfonia or Notion to push the sound to symphonic levels?
 Music directors were clear that they would not. Ted Sperling, who conducted ''The Light in the Piazza'' with 15 acoustic instruments, said, ''I'm a believer in making the most with what you're given, not pretending that something's there when it's not.'' Paul Gemignani, who will lead a ''South Pacific'' with full symphony orchestra at the Hollywood Bowl this August, agreed, saying he'd ''respectfully bow out'' if the producers wouldn't reorchestrate for ''all live instruments.'' He added, ''To me it would be like doing 'Death of a Salesman' with one great big star and the rest of the cast on a recording.'' 
 Mr. Gemignani has lived and died by that sword; the ''Pacific Overtures'' he conducted at the Roundabout in 2004 employed 7 musicians, down from 22 in the 1976 original; though the 7 were live, they sounded skimpy and, as processed through the sound system, even artificial at times. For that reason most producers I surveyed and, surprisingly, most composers, weren't so quick to disavow the new technology. 
 ''A machine-generated orchestra isn't such a terrible proposition, if the music director and sound designer work in coordination,'' said the composer Michael John LaChiusa. ''Do the machines provide the human touch of a live musician? Not to my ear, but because of miking, many of the live pit orchestras on Broadway sound canned already, sometimes even pre-taped. To use or not to use a machine to supplement, or even replace, the orchestra for a revival isn't an ethical or moral argument. It's not even a sentimental one. It's a question of aesthetics.''
 Many artists, or their heirs, seem to have answered that aesthetic question. Sinfonia has now been used in the West End (but not the Broadway) production of ''Les Miserables'' and in American non-Equity tours of ''Oliver!'' and ''Miss Saigon.'' The Gershwin estate authorized a Sinfonia-enhanced production of ''Porgy and Bess'' that visited minor markets from 2001 to 2005. Notion can be heard not only in ''Wonderful Town'' but also in ballet and Meat Loaf concerts everywhere. 
 Whether jobs are being lost as a result is a matter of interpretation. Yes, ''Wonderful Town'' has 11 fewer musicians now than it did when it opened on Broadway, but the show probably wouldn't have toured at all had it been required to maintain the full complement. Keith Levenson, the production's music supervisor and a paid adviser to Notion, said he is in that sense saving jobs, not cutting them. (He pointed out that Notion too is played by a live musician.) But union representatives call such arguments naive; what if the producers of the next ''Wonderful Town,'' having heard how this one sounds with Notion, decide they can only afford nine musicians, or five?
 Some see the slippery slope as most precarious not at the uppermost levels of production but at the lowest. Ms. Landolfi complained that the manufacturers are marketing the technology heavily to schools. And it's true that after years of experimentation and internal debate, both R&H Theatricals (a division of the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization) and Music Theater International, leading licensers of shows for amateur and stock production, now allow customized versions of Sinfonia to be rented with some of their properties. For rehearsals customers can use R&H's AccompanEase or M.T.I.'s RehearScore. For full performance there are products called InstrumentalEase and OrchExtra. Perhaps the most telling portmanteau is one that was proposed in an employee contest to name the orchestra product at R&H: PitBull.
 But philosophical anxieties (what would Rodgers, he of the sweeping string tuttis, think?) and musical misgivings eventually gave way to technical advancements and demand from amateur licensees, especially schools. Customers now pay about $1,400 for a four-week rental, which includes a two-octave keyboard, connection equipment and an Apple MacBook preloaded with the score of the show being performed. (M.T.I. offers 18 of its most popular titles, R&H five, with many more in development.) A knowledgeable musician, especially one savvy about computers, can have it playing within minutes. 
 Customers clearly love the result. Peter Hoopes, director of technology as well as conductor of the annual musical at St. Andrew's, a co-ed boarding school in Delaware, said that in previous years he'd had to make do with whatever instruments his volunteers happened to play. This year, having ordered InstrumentalEase for a production of ''Annie Get Your Gun,'' he turned on the MacBook, clicked ''mute'' for the instruments he had in the pit and produced the remainder of the orchestration by tapping while he conducted. He was astonished, as were his musicians.
 ''When they first heard it,'' Mr. Hoopes said, ''one of the comments was, 'Well, I guess you don't really need us here anymore.' And it did cross my mind that if I wanted a perfect sound, I could just eliminate them. But we're a small community, and part of the thrill is that everyone's contributing. On the other hand, it was nice knowing that if one of the players got sick, I could just unmute that part and go right on.'' 
 No one did get sick, and by the time ''Annie Get Your Gun'' opened on Feb. 23, Mr. Hoopes said, not only had he created a seamless ensemble featuring sounds he could never previously have mustered (try finding a harpist at a boarding school) but his 10 instrumentalists had improved by trying to match the quality of the software.
 This is the ideal situation; other schools may prove more willing to ditch their squawky pubescent clarinetists. The licensers' requirement that live musicians be used with the software is largely unenforceable. It's partly for this reason that the union opposes these products even at the amateur level. ''We think they really undermine the idea of music education,'' said Ms. Landolfi, ''which undermines the audience for Broadway and classical music. Now the schools can say, 'We don't need a music program because we can just buy this very affordable machine.' But in the end what kind of cultural life would we have?''
 A valid concern, and one shared by the manufacturers and licensers, most of whom are musicians themselves. They admit to ambivalence, but argue that the new technology is helping to build future audiences by allowing more shows to be produced and by accustoming young people to sounds they no longer have the chance to hear on a regular basis. (Lori Jarrett, the chief executive of Notion Music, said she hopes her product will promote ''a renaissance of more sophisticated art.'') Sure, everyone would prefer full orchestras in grade school and Broadway minimums of 35. But on that score perhaps, Richard Rodgers has left the building. 
 ''Technology is always a threat to live music,'' said Bruce Pomahac, director of music at Rodgers & Hammerstein. ''When the pianoforte replaced the harpsichord, every harpsichordist was out of a job. And we all fall in love with the art we grew up with. But this is not about putting musicians out of work. They're already out of work. This is about trying to get back, in some new form, something that's lost.''
 That may end up being the best the musicians union can hope for too. Could we one day find our orchestra pits filled with tuxedoed men and gowned women tapping at laptops? Mr. Lazarus, of Realtime, said he doesn't want to wave a red flag at the union, but that the products are already working -- and getting better. 
 Anyway, don't expect labor fireworks just yet. Wait until July, when the contract with Broadway's stage crews expires. Because Sinfonia doesn't just mimic cymbals and saxophones. It can be programmed to control scenery too.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Harry Campbell)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (86%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%) Theater; Computers and the Internet; Music

PERSON: Jesse Green

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



518 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: In a Shaky Economy, a Laggard May Find Its Legs

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AROUND this time last year, many investors were convinced that the market was sinking -- or that even if the bull wasn't drowning, the investment waters were becoming much more treacherous. 
 Speculative stocks that had paced the market for the previous five years were said to be out of favor, while stable blue chips were supposed to be back in.
For a brief time, that prediction came to pass. As stock prices tumbled from May 5 to June 13, the most aggressive types of equities bore the brunt of the damage. In fact, emerging-market stock funds lost nearly a quarter of their value amid growing market volatility. And small-cap stock funds plunged more than 12 percent on fears that the Federal Reserve was slamming the brakes too hard on the economy.
 But this panic attack turned out to be short-lived, and within a couple of months Wall Street went back to its speculative ways. 
 So why, then, are many strategists convinced that this time around -- despite last week's stock market rally -- investors are nearly done with risk taking? 
 It has to do with the nature of the sell-off that began on Feb. 27.
 There are important differences between the causes of this sell-off and last year's slide, said Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at the asset manager Eaton Vance. 
 Last year's panic, which pushed equity prices about 8 percent lower, ''was really an inflation scare,'' Mr. Richardson said. To be sure, investors were concerned about the health of the economy. But the primary concern was that the economy was overheating so much that the Fed would have to keep raising short-term interest rates. And Wall Street worried that the cumulative effects of those increases could cause the fast-growing economy to stall.
 Those fears were quickly put to rest -- after June, when the Fed stopped raising rates. Once that happened, and as it became clear that the economy was holding up reasonably well, investors felt comfortable rushing back into the economically sensitive stocks that had been leading the market for several years. 
 Last week, in a statement issued at the end of a meeting of Fed policy makers, the central bank implied that it was done raising rates for now. Many investors have concluded that the risk of inflation has subsided and that the chances of a rate cut this year have increased.
 ''The reason that stocks corrected last spring was because inflationary pressures were accelerating,'' said Jeffrey J. Schappe, chief investment officer at BB&T Asset Management in Raleigh, N.C. ''Now, those pressures are decelerating. And one of the reasons why they're decelerating is that the economy is cooling.''
 For example, gross domestic product, the broadest measure of economic activity, expanded at an annual rate of just 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter, down from 3.2 percent in 2005. 
 And after 13 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth, corporate profit gains are expected to dip into the single digits. In fact, earnings among companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index are expected to grow less than 7 percent this year, according to Thomson Financial.
 There's even a growing sense that the problems plaguing the housing market may push the broader economy into recession. The Fed may be prepared to lower interest rates if growth slows further, but if there is evidence of serious economic weakness, how are the markets likely to respond?
 ''As investors are forced to confront the reality of a growth slowdown, they're likely to pay less attention to the economically sensitive names,'' said Jack Caffrey, equity strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank. 
 This means that the best-performing sectors in recent years -- like energy and basic materials -- probably won't be the market leaders once this dust settles, Mr. Caffrey said.
 What will replace those sectors? He argues that the answer is likely to be stocks that don't require a strong economy to produce decent earnings growth. 
 One place to look is in health care, a traditional growth-oriented sector that has been a market laggard over the past five years. 
 ''The economics and valuations for the sector are pretty compelling,'' Mr. Schappe said. And history is also on the sector's side. Since 1986, health care stocks in the S.& P. 500 have had the highest correlation to rising stock market volatility, as measured by the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX. That's according to a recent analysis by Merrill Lynch. In other words, health care stocks are likely to perform best in a rocky market.
 What other types of stocks may outperform the broad market? Mr. Schappe argues that it now makes sense to take a more defensive stance. And another defensive-oriented sector with high correlation to market volatility is consumer staples. These are products that households need, like soap, toothpaste and razor blades, rather than products that people just want. 
 Mr. Schappe, though, argues that this is ''not a time to simply batten down all the hatches.'' Investors are likely to covet stocks that can produce decent earnings growth, and according to Thomson Financial, the sector that is expected to produce the biggest earnings gains this year is technology.
 To be sure, tech companies are sensitive to the underlying economy. But Mr. Caffrey notes that the sector -- which has been among the worst-performing groups over the last five years -- is in the midst of a product upgrade cycle. Moreover, corporations with tons of cash on hand are looking for ways to lift growth in productivity. One easy way to capture that is through improved technology.
 THE theme of a slowing economy is also likely to drive interest away from small-cap stocks and toward the blue chips, Mr. Schappe said.
 Why? For starters, the S.& P. 600 index of small stocks has far greater exposure to economically sensitive sectors -- such as consumer discretionary stocks, basic materials and industrials -- than the S.& P. 500 index of large-cap equities. Conversely, the small-stock universe is less exposed to defensive sectors like health care and consumer staples. 
 But it's also the case that investors have made tons of money in small stocks over the last six years. If they decide to take some of those profits off the table amid rising volatility, market leadership will have to swing to the large caps. 
 ''A lot of times,'' Mr. Schappe said, ''what causes a group of stocks to outperform isn't that people are passionate about them -- it's simply a case of investors being forced out of another group of stocks.''
 Whatever the reason, don't be surprised if large-cap stocks shine for the first time since the late 1990s.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Quick Comeback''Last year, the most economically sensitive stock fund sectors were hit hard by the spring market sell-off. But within months, many of those sectors recovered and produced sizeable gains.INVESTMENT FUNDSEmerging marketsMay 5 to June 13: -23June 14 to Dec. 31: +39%Precious metalsMay 5 to June 13: -27June 14 to Dec. 31: +28TechnologyMay 5 to June 13: -15June 14 to Dec. 31: +16Natural resourcesMay 5 to June 13: -15June 14 to Dec. 31: +11Small-cap growthMay 5 to June 13: -15June 14 to Dec. 31: +13TelecommunicationsMay 5 to June 13: -14June 14 to Dec. 31: +23Small-cap valueMay 5 to June 13: -11June 14 to Dec. 31: +15FinancialMay 5 to June 13: -7June 14 to Dec. 31: +17(Source by Morningstar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BONDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (63%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: BB & T ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



519 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Q & A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 386 words

BYLINE: By ROGER COLLIS

 BODY:
As a frequent traveler on a budget, I sometimes forfeit the fare if I cannot use a nonrefundable ticket. My travel agent says that airlines should refund the tax I have paid. But British Airways tells me that the entire amount I paid is nonrefundable. Who is right, B.A. or my agent? -- Steve Chernysh, Preverenges, Switzerland. 
 Several readers have asked this question. Eric Clark, a reader in London, writes, ''If I have to cancel a nonrefundable cheap ticket for a fare costing $:10 plus $:50 tax, will the airline keep $:10 or $:60?''
 Tony Cane, a spokesman for British Airways in London, says that taxes (which can now make up more than 50 percent of the total amount you pay for a ticket) will be refunded ''after deduction of an administration fee of $:20 to $:25.'' Samantha Day, a spokeswoman for easyJet, says that travelers can claim the tax part of a nonrefundable ticket by filling out the customer service form on the Web site (www.easyjet.com). There is a $:5 administration fee.
 European travelers have learned that the price of an airline ticket bought online can just about double when it comes to the final amount charged. According to the London-based travel agent Trailfinders (www.trailfinders.com), there are 453 taxes that can be imposed on passengers, depending on when and where they book a flight and where they are traveling. Taxes are as wide-ranging as the United States Animal and Plant Health Inspection Tax, the British Air Passenger Duty, Sydney Noise Tax and the Canadian Airport Improvement Fee.
 Moshe Goldberg in New York asks: ''If I were to buy two or more seats to stretch out in economy class as a comfortable and cost-effective alternative to business class, can I earn miles on every seat?''
 Paul Marston, a spokesman at British Airways in London, said that miles are only awarded for one person traveling, no matter how many seats he or she has booked.
 Perverse? Don't count on logic in the arcane world of taxes and frequent flier rules. The whole point of frequent flier programs is to award disproportionately more miles to travelers who pay the most for their tickets. So bear in mind you may earn proportionately more miles for a business-class ticket than for one in economy. Airlines often award no miles at all for the cheapest discount tickets. ROGER COLLIS

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nana Rausch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



520 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; DAY OUT RIO DE JANEIRO; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: In a Coffee-Mad City, the Bitter With the Sweet

BYLINE: By GREGORY DICUM

 BODY:
IN Rio de Janeiro, every street corner offers an opportunity for refreshment: juice bars, acai stands, open-air bars and of course botequins. These neighborhood institutions are part cafe, part lunch counter and part bistro; the place for a quick salgadinho, one of the salty snacks like fried balls of salt cod, and a cafezinho, the little cup of coffee beloved by Brazilians.
 Bright with mirrors, cool tile and loud signs in red and yellow lettering, the botequins have a retro feel. Cafe Gaucho, in downtown Rio, is a classic. It opens to a busy street corner, making the most of the city's joyful culture and tropical air. Commuters step off the sidewalk to the cashier, offering a few coins in exchange for a chit, which they then take to the coffee counter. 
At Cafe Gaucho, the counter is a circular island where patrons stand, a typical arrangement that is said to have been invented here. A man in a crisp white shirt stands in the center, working a stainless steel contraption of pipes and tanks, one tank for coffee and one for milk, kept warm by a bath of hot water. Cups and saucers steep in the water too, and after he takes the chit, the operator opens a steel door and pulls out a set, placing it, wet, on the stone countertop. Then he fills a stainless steel pitcher with dark, steaming coffee from a tap at the base of the tank, and with a fluid motion, splashes it into the tiny cup.
 Coffee in Brazil has always been a world unto itself. For more than a century, Brazil has been by far the planet's largest coffee producer. And Brazilians themselves drink coffee enthusiastically: total consumption is second only to the United States. But quantity and quality are different things: nearly all the best coffee is exported.
 Like samba and the Portuguese language, coffee is easy to mangle, but that being said the Brazilian coffee culture still has a transcendent quality. Cafezinho is the very soul of the botequim, and the botequim is a direct link to the golden age of Rio. In his classic 1931 samba ''Conversa de Botequim,'' Noel Rosa, who spent much of his short, dissolute life hanging out at a botequim right around the corner from Cafe Gaucho (there's a mural of him there now), describes the sociable scene with swinging wit.
 During a recent visit to Cafe Gaucho, I chose to have my cafezinho black; other options include Carioca (''Rio-style'' with added water), media (with milk) and pintado (just a few drops of milk). Sugar goes without saying in Brazil. I leaned on the cool stone, listening to the clatter all around me, watching the whiteness of the sugar vanish into the black coffee. After a quick stir with the doll-sized spoon, I raised the cafezinho to my lips. 
 It was terrible.
 EVEN if the beans at Cafe Gaucho had been the best available, botequins often manhandle the brew, heating it for hours and driving off any flavor. Cariocas (people who live in Rio) told me over and over that to get a good cafezinho at a botequim, it is essential to get there first thing in the morning. Given Rio's unparalleled nightlife, that turned out to be impossible, even for coffee enthusiasts like my wife, Nina, and me, co-authors of a book about the addictive bean.
 But at its best, Brazilian coffee has a full, mellow flavor. Unlike the brightly acidic Central American and Colombian coffees that are popular at trendy cafes in North America, Brazilian ''naturals'' have a round taste that evokes a time when coffee was a simpler matter. Think vintage 1970s Chock Full o'Nuts. ''Brazilian Arabica naturals are good all-day coffees,'' said Manoel Correa do Lago, a Rio coffee trader who works with huge international buyers. 
 When coffee first came to Brazil in the 19th century, the steep hillsides all around Rio were planted with the dark bushes. They quickly depleted the soil, and the hot climate affected the taste (a ''Rio-y'' flavor is still considered a defect), so production moved to the highlands in the state of Sao Paulo. Nonetheless, Rio became the cultural capital of Brazil, with a distinctly European sensibility: when the Portuguese royal family fled Napoleon by moving to Rio in 1808, the city became the only New World seat of a European monarchy. 
 So it's no surprise the city also developed a sophisticated cafe culture reminiscent of Paris or Vienna. Confeitaria Colombo, downtown, is the grandest example. The huge, elegant space opens up to a canopy of stained glass that washes filtered light onto huge mirrors. Their dark, carved frames are of the same ornate style as the opulent wood-and-glass cabinets towering above the counters. Marble tables and heavy cane-seated chairs are spaced generously around the tile floor, and orange-aproned waiters roam the noisy space carrying cakes and luxurious drinks on gleaming silver trays.
 We had sublimely fresh pineapple juice spiked with green flecks of mint, a garlicky empada (a pastry filled with minced hearts of palm and salt cod), a fudgy brownie and assertive espresso. Nina pronounced it ''quite good.''
 This was not our first espresso in Rio. Espresso from Illy and Lavazza has already replaced the cafezinhos long served to visitors at many of the city's shops, as well as at many cafes and restaurants. In November, Brazil's first Starbucks opened in Sao Paulo. Though the beans in virtually all of these blends are Brazilian, they have been transformed into a globalized product. 
 Cafezinhos are traditionally complimentary at the end of a meal. But espresso is never free. Mr. Correa do Lago, whose gaze turns dreamy when he thinks of the perfect cafezinho -- ''I love them,'' he says -- is also an economist. Because it's not usually free, he says, espresso in Rio is more reliable. So far, there's no sign of a gourmet cafezinho.
 Rio's espresso scene is most developed in fashionable enclaves like Leblon and Ipanema, as well as more bohemian districts like Santa Teresa, a hilltop neighborhood of majestically shabby old houses, art galleries and restaurants served by a rickety yellow tram from downtown. There, we sat under leafy mango trees on the terrace at Largo das Letras, a small cafe in a big, old mansion that also houses a bookstore and a dance studio. Looking out over Rio's chaotic expanse, we enjoyed an ineptly but enthusiastically pulled Lavazza. 
 Later, near the other end of the tram, in Rio's old center, we found one of the best shots of espresso in the city. ''Here you drink better quality than we send to Finland,'' said the owner, Oswaldo Aranha Netto, referring to one of the most demanding coffee markets in the world. Mr. Aranha, a lifelong coffee trader, opened Cafe Rubro on the ground floor of a building occupied by some of the country's most venerable coffee traders (including Mr. Correa do Lago's). Though the small, sparse espresso bar is hard to find, Mr. Aranha says a thousand people make their way there every day. As we spoke, we each polished off a large mug filled with rich black espresso made with beans from the Sur de Minas region, north of Rio. 
 Fat tropical raindrops began to fall in the fading evening light outside, and Mr. Aranha, a true coffee lover deep in the caffeine thrall, leaned in close to us. ''Brazil is different from the rest of the world,'' he said, his English tinged with Brooklynese from his days living in one of the world's other great coffee ports. ''It's the only country that can produce anything you want.''CUP BY CUP
 Cafe Gaucho, at Rua Sao Jose, 86, in Rio's Centro (21-2533-9285), is a classic botequim. Get a cafezinho because you must (0.80 reais, or about 40 cents at 2.1 reais to the U.S. dollar), but be sure to sample the classic sandwiches like pernil (marinated roast pork) and rib roast (4.50 reais). Or for a lighter snack, get the classic combination of media (cafezinho with milk) with pao na chapa com manteiga (grilled buttered bread) for under 3 reais.
 Confeitaria Cave, at Rua 7 de Setembro, 137, Centro (21-2221-0533; www.confeitariacave.com.br), is the oldest in Rio. The interior is a little cramped, and the fluorescent lights dispatch any remaining charm, but the cakes are delicious. Try the signature ratinho, a playful mouse-shaped pastry flavored with marzipan, or the succulent, eggy rabanada. 
 Also in Centro, at Rua Goncalves Dias, 32, Confeitaria Colombo (21-2232-2300; www.confeitariacolombo.com.br) has been on every visitor's itinerary since it was founded in 1894. In the magnificent space, it's not hard to discern the echoes of generations enchanted by this city.
 Armazem do Cafe is a local chain with eight locations in Rio. The original opened 10 years ago in Ipanema, at Rua Maria Quiteria, 77 loja G (21-2522-5039; www.armazemdocafe.com.br). Coffee blends reflect the range of beans available from different parts of Brazil, and the place is often hopping. 
 Largo das Letras, in a big mansion at Rua Almirante Alexandrino, 501 (21-2221-8992; www.largodasletras.com.br), epitomizes Santa Teresa's theatrical decay. Flip through a small but well-chosen collection of books about Brazilian history, art and culture, and sigh before the vista of Rio spread out below.
 Some of the best espresso (2.20 reais) in Rio can be found at any of the three locations of Cafe Rubro. As you sit in the small, gleaming shop at Rua da Quitanda, 191, Centro (21-2516-0610; www.rubrocafe.com.br), coffee blenders are hard at work a few floors above you, in rooms rich with the earthy smell of green coffee from all over Brazil.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Day Out column last Sunday about coffee bars in Rio de Janeiro misspelled an option for preparing coffee. Adding a few drops of milk is called pingado, not pintado. The article also misstated the name of a coffee-growing region in Brazil. It is Sul de Minas -- not Sur de Minas, the name in Spanish.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cafe Rubro, where the owner says about a thousand customers pass through every day. A pastry moment at Confeitaria Colombo. A cafezinho at Cafe Gaucho, for many Brazilians only one of a day's several. (Photos by John Maier Jr. for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); COFFEE (89%); COFFEE & TEA (76%) Travel and Vacations; Coffee

PERSON: Gregory Dicum

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (93%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Rio De Janeiro (Brazil); Brazil

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



521 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-25-07: IDEA LAB; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Reverse Foreign Aid

BYLINE: By Tina Rosenberg. 
Tina Rosenberg is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
For the last 10 years, people in China have been sending me money. I also get money from countries in Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa -- really, from every poor country. I'm not the only one who's so lucky. Everyone in a wealthy nation has become the beneficiary of the generous subsidies that poorer countries bestow upon rich ones. Here in the United States, this welfare program in reverse allows our government to spend wildly without runaway inflation, keeps many American businesses afloat and even provides medical care in parts of the country where doctors are scarce.
Economic theory holds that money should flow downhill. The North, as rich countries are informally known, should want to sink its capital into the South -- the developing world, which some statisticians define as all countries but the 29 wealthiest. According to this model, money both does well and does good: investors get a higher return than they could get in their own mature economies, and poor countries get the capital they need to get richer. Increasing the transfer of capital from rich nations to poorer ones is often listed as one justification for economic globalization. 
 Historically, the global balance sheet has favored poor countries. But with the advent of globalized markets, capital began to move in the other direction, and the South now exports capital to the North, at a skyrocketing rate. According to the United Nations, in 2006 the net transfer of capital from poorer countries to rich ones was $784 billion, up from $229 billion in 2002. (In 1997, the balance was even.) Even the poorest countries, like those in sub-Saharan Africa, are now money exporters.
 How did this great reversal take place? Why did globalization begin to redistribute wealth upward? The answer, in large part, has to do with global finance. All countries hold hard-currency reserves to cover their foreign debts or to use in case of a natural or a financial disaster. For the past 50 years, rich countries have steadily held reserves equivalent to about three months' worth of their total imports. As money circulates more and more quickly in a globalized economy, however, many countries have felt the need to add to their reserves, mainly to head off investor panic, which can strike even well-managed economies. Since 1990, the world's nonrich nations have increased their reserves, on average, from around three months' worth of imports to more than eight months' worth -- or the equivalent of about 30 percent of their G.D.P. China and other countries maintain those reserves mainly in the form of supersecure U.S. Treasury bills; whenever they buy T-bills, they are in effect lending the United States money. This allows the U.S. to keep interest rates low and Washington to run up huge deficits with no apparent penalty. 
 But the cost to poorer countries is very high. The benefit of T-bills, of course, is that they are virtually risk-free and thus help assure investors and achieve stability. But the problem is that T-bills earn low returns. All the money spent on T-bills -- a very substantial sum -- could be earning far better returns invested elsewhere, or could be used to pay teachers and build highways at home, activities that bring returns of a different type. Dani Rodrik, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, estimates conservatively that maintaining reserves in excess of the three-month standard costs poor countries 1 percent of their economies annually -- some $110 billion every year. Joseph Stiglitz, the Columbia University economist, says he thinks the real cost could be double that. 
 In his recent book, ''Making Globalization Work,'' Stiglitz proposes a solution. Adapting an old idea of John Maynard Keynes, he proposes a sort of insurance pool that would provide hard currency to countries going through times of crisis. Money actually changes hands only if a country needs the reserve, and the recipient must repay what it has used.
 No one planned the rapid swelling of reserves. Other South-to-North subsidies, by contrast, have been built into the rules of globalization by international agreements. Consider the World Trade Organization's requirements that all member countries respect patents and copyrights -- patents on medicines and industrial and other products; copyrights on, say, music and movies. As poorer countries enter the W.T.O., they must agree to pay royalties on such goods -- and a result is a net obligation of more than $40 billion annually that poorer countries owe to American and European corporations.
 There are good reasons for countries to respect intellectual property, but doing so is also an overwhelming burden on the poorest people in poorer countries. After all, the single largest beneficiary of the intellectual-property system is the pharmaceutical industry. But consumers in poorer nations do not get much in return, as they do not form a lucrative enough market to inspire research on cures for many of their illnesses. Moreover, the intellectual-property rules make it difficult for poorer countries to manufacture less-expensive generic drugs that poor people rely on. The largest cost to poor countries is not money but health, as many people simply will not be able to find or afford brand-name medicine. 
 The hypercompetition for global investment has produced another important reverse subsidy: the tax holidays poor countries offer foreign investors. A company that announces it wants to make cars, televisions or pharmaceuticals in, say, east Asia, will then send its representatives to negotiate with government officials in China, Malaysia, the Philippines and elsewhere, holding an auction for the best deal. The savviest corporations get not only 10-year tax holidays but also discounts on land, cheap government loans, below-market rates for electricity and water and government help in paying their workers. 
 Rich countries know better -- the European Union, for example, regulates the incentives members can offer to attract investment. That car plant will most likely be built in one of the competing countries anyway -- the incentives serve only to reduce the host country's benefits. Since deals between corporations and governments are usually secret, it is hard to know how much investment incentives cost poorer countries -- certainly tens of billions of dollars. Whatever the cost, it is growing, as country after country has passed laws enabling the offer of such incentives.
 Human nature, not smart lobbying, is responsible for another poor-to-rich subsidy: the brain drain. The migration of highly educated people from poor nations is increasing. A small brain drain can benefit the South, as emigrants send money home and may return with new skills and capital. But in places where educated people are few and emigrants don't go home again, the brain drain devastates. In many African countries, more than 40 percent of college-educated people emigrate to rich countries. Malawian nurses have moved to Britain and other English-speaking nations en masse, and now two-thirds of nursing posts in Malawi's public health system are vacant. Zambia has lost three-quarters of its new physicians in recent years. Even in South Africa, 21 percent of graduating doctors migrate. 
 The financial consequences for the poorer nations can be severe. A doctor who moves from Johannesburg to North Dakota costs the South African government as much as $100,000, the price of training him there. As with patent enforcement, a larger cost may be in health. A lack of trained people -- a gap that widens daily -- is now the main barrierto fighting AIDS, malaria and other diseases in Africa.
 Sometimes reverse subsidies are disguised. Rich-country governments spent $283 billion in 2005 to support and subsidize their own agriculture, mainly agribusiness. Artificially cheap food exported to poor countries might seem like a gift -- but it is often a Trojan horse. Corn, rice or cotton exported by rich countries is so cheap that small farmers in poor countries cannot compete, so they stop farming. Three-quarters of the world's poor people are rural. The African peasant with an acre and a hoe is losing her livelihood, and the benefits go mainly to companies like Archer Daniels Midland and Cargill. 
 Most costly to poor countries, they have been drafted into paying for rich nations' energy use. On a per capita basis, Americans emit more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere -- and thus create more global warming -- than anyone else. What we pay to drive a car or keep an industrial plant running is not the true cost of oil or coal. The real price would include the cost of the environmental damage that comes from burning these fuels. But even as we do not pay that price, other countries do. American energy use is being subsidized by tropical coastal nations, who appear to be global warming's first victims. Some scientists argue that Bangladesh already has more powerful monsoon downpours and Honduras fiercer cyclones because of global warming -- likely indicators of worse things ahead. The islands of the Maldives may someday be completely underwater. The costs these nations will pay do not appear on the global balance sheets. But they are the ultimate subsidy.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Abelardo Morell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BONDS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); REFUGEES (71%); IMMIGRATION (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); CURRENCIES (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Government Bonds; Third World and Developing Countries; Foreign Investments; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Education and Schools; Immigration and Refugees; Weather; Global Warming; Energy and Power; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: Tina Rosenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



522 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 4; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 141

LENGTH: 3418 words

HEADLINE: Dallas Does Dallas

BYLINE: By Mimi Swartz

 BODY:
There is a statue in the Nasher Sculpture Center in downtown Dallas that seems particularly fitting for this particular city. Called ''The Age of Bronze,'' it is by Rodin and happens to be the oldest piece in the collection, a life-size, perfectly formed male nude in a pose that is both pensive and slightly pained. It is supposed to depict, according to the director of the museum, Steven A. Nash, ''the dawning of a new age of self-awareness, or self-consciousness.'' Distinguishing between the two has long been a psychic struggle here, though the unqualified success of the Nasher itself -- a gift to Dallas from the shopping-mall magnate and local philanthropist Raymond D. Nasher, housed in a flawless, quietly self-confident building by Renzo Piano -- suggests that Dallas might finally be getting there. The city seems willing to throw off its long-held infatuation with glitz and glamour, while remaining obsessed with maintaining a reputation for impeccable, indisputable good taste. 
As Mayor Laura Miller put it in ''Dallas: Where Dreams Come True,'' a self-congratulatory brochure, ''Dallas is, once again, in the midst of a new beginning -- a magnificent renaissance.'' These days, you can't visit the city without someone buttonholing you to chant a mantra of big-time architecture: a new opera center by Norman Foster, a new theater by Rem Koolhaas, a proposed bridge spanning the Trinity River by Santiago Calatrava. These buildings will take their place alongside a Latino Cultural Center by Ricardo Legorreta, a symphony hall by I. M. Pei, Philip Johnson's Crescent Court complex and a new development by Ross Perot Jr., near the American Airlines basketball arena, which looks like something out of ''Blade Runner'' on a sunny day. And three of the city's biggest art patrons -- the Hoffman, Rachofsky and Rose families -- have donated their world-class contemporary collections to the once struggling Dallas Museum of Art. ''You can't believe you're in Dallas!'' a friend of mine and longtime resident said. 
 So what if, last year, The Dallas Morning News issued a bleak report on the state of crime, schools and growth? (Sample text: ''Dallas calls itself 'the city that works.' Dallas is wrong.'') The city's natural optimism dominates in the enormous cranes that bob and weave all over the city center, promising a new Ritz-Carlton, a new Mandarin Oriental and assorted high-rise luxury condos. Only the new W hotel, with a 25-foot mobile of tiny toy cowboys, cowgirls, mustangs and cows, seems interested in honoring the past. Dallas these days wants to be seen as a sophisticated destination for art, culture and, of course, business. 
 Maybe, then, it wasn't so shocking that a cadre of Southern Methodist University professors protested the location of the George W. Bush presidential library on campus. But few who've been around Texas for any length of time can't help but be surprised that Dallas has learned to stop snubbing Fort Worth, its more secure and deeply resented cousin, so that the two cities can join forces in creating one whopping destination for art and architecture fans. As the Morning News architecture critic David Dillon told me, ''The city is really coming into its own.'' Particularly when considered with Louis Kahn's Kimbell and Tadao Ando's Modern Art Museum in Fort Worth, Dallas is, in a way, he said, ''a place you can't not go.'' 
 In other words, you really can't associate Dallas with big, brassy blondes or J. R. Ewing anymore, much less with Lee Harvey Oswald and the Kennedy assassination. Nor can you equate it with the stuffy, post-oil-bust, shame-cycle city of the late 1980s and '90s. Dallas hasn't lost its passion for getting it right -- this is still a city where a fashion stylist can be described in a news story, without irony, as an ''avowed minimalist'' -- but the earnestness that can easily be mistaken for pretension has softened. ''It's learning to loosen up,'' Dillon said, with just a hint of doubt in his voice.
 I lived in Dallas from 1988 to 1991, on a street called Mercedes, which always struck me, and anyone else familiar with Dallas's ambitions, as fitting. I was newly married to a busy husband, had a job that encouraged travel, and wasn't terribly enthusiastic about settling in. Texans split hairs about the state's major cities in a way outsiders do not. I am from San Antonio and had been living in Austin and, before that, Houston. Dallas had always seemed to me too Midwestern, too conservative and far too orderly and uptight. Still, I fell in love with the tiny brick bungalow we bought in a rapidly gentrifying neighborhood and taught myself to be patient with our 90-something neighbor, who told us she had ridden in covered wagons. My husband and I contented ourselves with eating square-shaped pizza in the dark, '40s-era dining room at Campisi's and the mealy corn dogs at the state fair; we inspected the assassination site and checked out Southfork. In other words, we struck a pose that we were in Dallas but not of Dallas, though on special occasions we made forays to the brooding opulence of the Mansion on Turtle Creek or the chic Routh Street Cafe (now closed), where the chefs Dean Fearing and Stephan Pyles created New Southwestern concoctions like lobster tacos with jicama salad or catfish mousse with crayfish sauce. 
 In my spare time, I shopped. I do not mean that every once in a while I ventured into the original Neiman Marcus downtown or made the monthly pilgrimage to the antiques sale at Fair Park. I mean that Dallas unleashed in me a near constant mania to discover my best (looking) self. Even 20 years ago, the ways to do so in Dallas were myriad. I hate to count the days I wandered, in my flower-girl garb, from the downtown Neiman's to the Stanley Korshak at the Crescent Court, trying on lipsticks, blush and designer clothes I couldn't possibly afford, helped along by saleswomen who spoke to me kindly and treated me gently, like I was a hopeless refugee from the Planet of Terrible Taste. I bought a Perry Ellis gown on sale for what was then a breathtaking $300 at NorthPark Center and exchanged a wink with Calvin Klein at the Highland Park Village shopping center when he appeared for a trunk show at his first free-standing eponymous store. 
 As they say, when in Rome. Yes, there were major cultural institutions in town, but I understood then as I understand now that the real works of art in Dallas are those created and inspired by the retailers, particularly Stanley Marcus, whose spirit remains as venerated in Dallas as the Buddha's in Tibet. At the heart of it all -- this zeal for glamour and sophistication, a supreme faith in the transcendent power of surfaces -- is a Texan's pride and a Texan's insecurity: you don't leave the house without looking your best, because you never know whom you might see, and who might want to find you lacking. (It isn't just the Cowboys who know that the best defense is a good offense.) 
 In other words, I made my peace with Dallas on Dallas's terms. I know in retrospect that there were plenty of Dallas residents who left their houses without being properly turned out, who took their kids to Little League and soccer practice instead of shopping malls. But I wasn't one of them. I had succumbed to the local fever, and it didn't break the day my husband came home and asked how I'd feel about moving back to Houston. It was only months later, after I'd caught our new Houston neighbors snickering at my color-coordinated linens, my floral arrangement and my chicken salad with too many neo-Southwestern ingredients, that I was cured. I was way south of the Trinity again, and it was time to let go. 
 I hadn't been to Dallas for any length of time when I visited recently, and my first indication that things had changed was when I spied the jewelry being raffled off at the Nasher Sculpture Center's New Year's Eve benefit. The stones on the white gold necklace were not small by any standard -- the piece was billed in the party program as ''a stunning 2 1/2-carat diamond necklace'' valued at $5,900 -- but it didn't look like something J. R. Ewing or, for that matter, H. L. Hunt would have given any self-respecting mistress. It was understated. (This was a town, after all, where a father hired a three-ring circus complete with elephants for his daughter's debutante party, long before MTV's ''My Super Sweet 16.'') The inside of the Nasher party tent looked like something from the Snow Queen -- all shimmering silver and snowy white. The dinner chairwoman Heidi Dillon wore big blond hair with her silver sequined gown, but her young son was also in attendance, in a tux and matching silver sneakers, which dialed the whole thing back a bit. Some of the male guests weren't even in black tie, another sign that the city's days of trying too hard were perhaps numbered. 
 If anything was missing from the Dallas I remembered, it was that. Earlier, my husband and I had checked into the boutique Hotel ZaZa, just across the freeway from the city's arts district. Boutique hotels speak to the Dallas soul -- they're trendy and exclusive -- but the ZaZa also refuses to take itself too seriously. It is like a cross between a villa in Cannes, a West Hollywood hot spot and a zendo. There is a sun-washed pool in designer-approved Mediterranean hues; theme suites (the Rock Star, the Last Czar, the Crouching Tiger), some of which are bigger than my 2,000-square-foot home; moodily darkened hallways decorated, this being fashion-crazed Dallas, with Helmut Newton photographs; and pink thong underwear inscribed with the hotel's name available for purchase from a glass case in the lobby. (Bible Belt Dallas always had a thing for illicit sex.) 
 Our non-themed room had the requisite flat-screen TV and a frosted-glass window between the bedroom and shower with an inscription debatably but frequently attributed to Ralph Waldo Emerson about success (''To leave the world a bit better / whether by a healthy child, / a garden patch / or a redeemed social condition, / . . . This is to have success''). We had a terrific view of guests arriving and departing in their Porsches, Hummers and BMWs, burdened with shopping bags from Neiman's, Barneys, etc., and I wondered whether the hotel's designers had indulged a taste for irony not commonly associated with Dallas. Then I found the tooth whitener for sale on the minibar, and remembered where I was. 
 Maybe it was out of a desire for preemptive serenity that we had dined the night before at York Street. Dallas has always been a wonderful food town, somewhat surprising in a place where well-cut clothing is de rigueur. (Dean Fearing's departure from the Mansion to create his own restaurant in the new Ritz-Carlton was treated in Dallas with the gravity of a Cold War defection.) The decor of a restaurant here is almost as important as its food: an impressive, high-end place like Local is so severely spare it approaches self-parody, while the Latin homestyle La Duni has expensive toiletries and a wide-screen TV in the restroom. On my visit, the latter was tuned to the Cowboys game. 
 But maybe it is indicative of the city's semi-relaxation that York Street, its best restaurant, is tucked into a tiny space in the cozy east Dallas neighborhood known as Lakewood. We arrived straight from the highway, and no one looked askance at our casual attire; the room was full of happy diners of every sociological-economic-ethnic stripe, a vast change from two decades ago, when the only people in the city's best restaurants were overdressed and white. There were social rituals here, but gracious ones: the manager brought us tiny sips of sherry, tangy olives and warmed towels by way of greeting. From the chef Sharon Hage's simple, market-fresh menu, we enjoyed a sprightly parsnip and truffle soup, tender pork chops and roast chicken, along with homemade gingersnap ice cream. Everyone seemed to know everyone else -- you almost expected to see plates passed from table to table. Because we had arrived late, my husband missed out on his first choice, a monkfish di Parma. ''Call ahead next time and we'll be sure to have it for you,'' our waiter said, wishing us good night. Whether this was the new new Dallas or a Dallas I had never bothered to know, it was nice to feel so at home. 
 There is always something disorienting about returning as a visitor to a place you used to live, and this trip was no different. There was a part of me that marveled at all the changes in Dallas: the new light-rail system that ran by our old house, the new Uptown/West Village area, complete with low-rise condos, sleek restaurants and coffee houses, all in an area comprising no more than six square blocks. (''Dallas has discovered the pedestrian,'' cracked my friend Skip, a longtime Dallasite.) Even the entrance ramps on the Central Expressway had been improved, meaning drivers could merge without the acceleration skills and/or the death wish of Evel Knievel. 
 Even so, I approached my sentimental favorite, NorthPark Center, with trepidation. I shouldn't have worried: the Nasher family artwork collection, including Andy Warhol, Jim Dine and Frank Stella, was still showing Neiman's in its best light, along with newer stores like Barneys New York, Nordstrom, Oscar de la Renta and Intermix. (Khajak Keledjian, a co-owner of Intermix, used to watch ''Dallas'' as a kid in Beirut, so when it came time to expand, he had a soft spot for Texas.) I was greeted like a long-lost relation. Way back in the '60s, Joan Didion described a woman she had met in Dallas who was ''charming and attractive'' and ''accustomed to the hospitality and hypersensitivity of Texas.'' That's still true at NorthPark, and it's still true of the city at large: Dallas needs to be appreciated by the larger world, a characteristic that will always separate it from bigger, burlier American cities. 
 At the same time, few big cities lavish so much attention on its wealthiest citizens. It wasn't surprising to me, for instance, that Whole Foods Market chose to improve its North Dallas store by adding both a concierge and a 4,500-square-foot wellness spa. Likewise, to the south at Forty Five Ten, Dallas's toniest lifestyle emporium -- Dries Van Noten, Givenchy, Marni -- the ambience is customized for the knowledgeable, if casual, rich. ''We're trying to do something very chic but very friendly,'' the co-owner Brian Bolke told me. ''Our staff wears flip-flops in the summer.'' 
 This is so not Dallas,'' said Darren, the barista at the Nodding Dog cafe in Oak Cliff. When I asked why this old suburb shouldn't be considered a part of Dallas, he explained that it was ''funky, laid-back and not pretentious.'' This is the way Oak Cliff plays down-home Brooklyn (okay, the Brooklyn of 20 years ago) to Dallas's high-toned Manhattan: despite several promised rebirths -- and this one seems to be taking -- it has retained and even improved upon its scruffy, laissez-faire spirit. A separate city until 1903, it has had its issues with crime and poverty; the bank robber Clyde Barrow is buried in Oak Cliff and Lee Harvey Oswald lived here. Like Brooklyn, Oak Cliff has opened its heart to all comers, from poor and middle-class African-Americans to gays to Hispanic immigrants. Because the area possesses some of the city's best housing stock, it's also become a seductive venue for gentrifiers. In Kessler Park, there are mansions almost as fine as any on Dallas's tony Swift Avenue and tiny turreted brick cottages similar to those in Lakewood. Oak Cliff even has its very own boutique hotel, the Belmont, which has rooms with deep soaking tubs and Kiehl's bath products.
 The part of Oak Cliff that has best resolved the Dallas/not Dallas conundrum, however, is the Bishop Arts District, a collection of small restored shops and office buildings from the 1920s that includes the Nodding Dog. Oak Cliff was once the place where you could find the best chicken-fried steak on the planet, at the much-mourned Gennie's Bishop Grill; now there is Hattie's, which serves pulled pork over garlic grits and fried green tomatoes on white tablecloths with an accompanying wine list. Even more to the point is Tillman's Roadhouse. Known for 14 years as Tillman's Corner, it has recently received a makeover; the menu includes truffled popcorn and venison Frito pie, and the interior has damask walls, crystal chandeliers, carved deer heads and the occasional showing of ''Giant'' on the lounge wall. This is small-town Texas and, at the same time, a reasonable, updated and upgraded facsimile. Most of the people there looked happy to have it both ways. 
 Maybe that is the secret of this new new Dallas. For the first time it seems possible to have Rem Koolhaas and chicken-fried steak and Givenchy and flip-flops without the accompanying angst, that longtime local fear of being branded a hick by outsiders. If I needed more proof of this self-acceptance, I found it late on New Year's Eve at the Nasher, when dessert was served and all the women got golden eggs topped with tiny rhinestones alongside their chocolate towers. In a hushed voice, the M.C. asked us not to crack the egg until he gave the signal. Then he explained: inside one of the eggs was a Bailey Banks & Biddle ring with no less than half a dozen round diamonds. ''Please wait until we give the signal,'' he begged the crowd, but just when he finished his plea, a whoop went up in the center of the room, because a 90-year-old patron, Betty Blake, had already cracked open her egg to find the ring. 
 ''She's a little hard of hearing,'' someone near me said, but I didn't believe it for a minute. ESSENTIALS DALLAS
 HOTELS: The city's two top in-town luxury properties, Rosewood's Mansion on Turtle Creek (888-767-3966; www.mansiononturtlecreek.com; doubles from $295) and the Hotel Crescent Court (888-767-3966; www.crescent court.com; doubles from $275), will be joined within a year by a new Ritz-Carlton (www.ritzcarlton.com) and a Mandarin Oriental (www.mandarin-oriental.com). For boutique-style options, consider the new W Dallas-Victory (877-822-0000; www.whotels.com; doubles from $239); the cozy, neighborhood Melrose Hotel (800-635-7673; www.melrosehoteldallas.com; doubles from $174); the Hotel ZaZa, with its glitzy interiors and busy bar scene (800-597-8399; www.hotelzaza.com; doubles from $259); or the Belmont Hotel, a former motor lodge in the city's arts district (866-870-8010; www.belmontdallas.com; doubles from $179).
 RESTAURANTS: Hattie's Restaurant Homemade Southern fare. 418 North Bishop Ave.; (214) 942-7400; entrees $9 to $37. La Duni Great Latin homestyle sandwiches and salads. 4620 McKinney Ave., (214) 520-7300; 4264 Oak Lawn Ave., (214) 520-6888; entrees $8 to $24. Local Modern American cuisine. 2936 Elm St.; (214) 752-7500; entrees $28 to $38. Mia's Popular restaurant dishing up Tex-Mex; brisket tacos are a must. 4322 Lemmon Ave.; (214) 526-1020; entrees $8 to $16. Nana Innovative cuisine with great views of the city, in the Hilton Anatole hotel. 2201 Stemmons Freeway; (214) 761-7470; entrees $29 to $52. Nodding Dog Casual coffee house. 500 North Bishop Ave.; (214) 941-1166. Tillman's Roadhouse Creative regional cuisine. 324 West Seventh St.; (214) 942-0988; entrees $11 to $29. York Street A carefully sourced market menu and an unpredictable wine list make this a foodie favorite. 6047 Lewis St.; (214) 826-0968; entrees $25 to $35. 
 SHOPS: For casual window shopping, check out the antiques district on Industrial Boulevard and the smaller shops in the West Village neighborhood. NorthPark Center (8687 North Central Expressway; 214-361-6345) is the city's ultimate luxury shopping mall. You'll also find plenty to choose from at the 8,000-square-foot lifestyle store Forty Five Ten (4510 McKinney Ave.; 214-559-4510). 
 SIGHTS: Most of the cultural points of interest are concentrated in the Downtown Arts District. Be sure not to miss the Dallas Museum of Art (1717 North Harwood St.; 214-922-1200; www.dm-art.org), the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center (2301 Flora St.; 214-670-3600; www.meyersonsymphonycenter.com), the Nasher Sculpture Center (2001 Flora St; 214-242-5100; www.nashersculpturecenter.org) and the Latino Cultural Center (2600 Live Oak St.; 214-670-3320). In Fort Worth, essentials are the Kimbell Art Museum (3333 Camp Bowie Blvd.; 817-332-8451; www.kimbellart.org) and the Modern Art Museum (3200 Darnell St.; 817-738-9215; www.themodern.org).

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday in T: Travel, about the resurgence of Dallas, misidentified a street that is known for its mansions. It is Swiss Avenue, not Swift. The article also referred incorrectly to a retail, office and hotel complex designed by Philip Johnson. It is the Crescent, not the Crescent Court, which is a hotel.
An article on March 25 in T: Travel magazine, about the resurgence of Dallas, referred incorrectly to a negative report by The Dallas Morning News on the state of crime, schools and growth in Dallas. The report was published in 2004, not last year. Since then, some improvements have been reported in those areas. A reader pointed out the error in an e-mail message on April 9, and this correction was delayed for research.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOVELY BONES: a view of the city's construction boom from the new w hotel. opposite: guests at the opening of the balenciaga exhibit at southern methodist university's meadows museum.
PEOPLE, PLACES, THINGS: from far left, the Rock Star suite of the hotel zaza provides a bit of over-the-top flash
the unassuming York Street restaurant in east Dallas draws serious foodies
the nasher sculpture center and garden displays works by Picasso, Matisse and Rodin.
LUXE LIFE: clockwise from left, valet parking in the fashionable west village area
The Belmont Hotel in Oak Cliff attracts the Indie set
the northpark center has it all: Neiman Marcus, Barneys New York and world-class art like this sculpture by Mark di Suvero.
 MODERN AMENITIES: The design district is filled with high-end boutiques like collage 20th century classics. (Photographs by Peter Rad) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (64%); BASKETBALL (63%); AIRLINES (62%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: Mimi Swartz

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Dallas (Tex); Texas

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



523 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; The Remix; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Capsule Collection

BYLINE: By Aric Chen

 BODY:
Pod hotels -- a new wave of budget accommodations offering a pint-size, though not unstylish, place to rest one's head -- are landing everywhere. How did it happen? Here, one plausible theory. Aric Chen 
1967 In Montreal, the architect Moshe Safdie unveils Habitat 67, a spectacular stack of concrete housing units that unleashes a passion for modular living.
 1968 Stanley Kubrick's ''2001: A Space Odyssey'' puts three crew members in hibernation capsules. If they can do it for months, a night or two can't be bad.
 1973 The economist E. F. Schumacher publishes his book ''Small Is Beautiful,'' inspiring a movement.
 1977 Kisho Kurokawa designs the Capsule Inn Osaka, considered the first pod hotel. It looks like a morgue, but guests still squeeze in today.
 1991 Ian Schrager's Paramount Hotel opens in New York. With its very, very boutique rooms, it proves that swank wins over square footage.
 Late '90s Globalization, sustainability and design converge as architects start a fad for shipping containers repurposed as housing.
 1999 JetBlue launches, replicating Southwest's budget, no-frills formula -- but with the frills. Parsimonious travelers everywhere rejoice.
 2001 Sleek, stylish, small and portable, the iPod makes its debut. Enough said.
 2003 Isaac Mizrahi hits the Target with his first collection for the discount giant, pulling fashionistas and the masses into that realm where high meets low.
 2007 Small is groovy. Cheap is cheerful. Pod hotels take over the world: joining easyHotel (above left), in London and Basel, are Yotel, inside London airports (www.yotel.com); Cube (above right), backpacker bunkhouses in Austria (www.cube-hotels.com); Qbic, in Antwerp and Amsterdam (www.qbichotels.com); and the new Pod Hotel in Manhattan (www.pickwickarms.com)

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photographs By Great Building Collection
Everett Digital
No Credit
Courtesy Of Hotels (2)
Getty Images
Corbis
Getty Images
Courtesy Of Laforce Stevens
Eduard Hueber
 Courtesy Of Easyhotel) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); BUDGETS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%) Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: PARAMOUNT HOTEL (56%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (55%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: Aric Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



524 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; The Get; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Hat Tricks

BYLINE: By Christopher Petkanas

 BODY:
One of the dividends of a trip to an obscure place like Montappone, Italy -- an austere hill town in Le Marche and the center of Italian hat production -- is how it can suddenly press your replay button. Twenty-five years ago I used to go to the races at Longchamp. Marie-Helene de Rothschild ruled Paris then, yet it wasn't the queen bee who stole the show but an antique countess, Simone Saint-Just, with her exquisitely cocked trilby. Later, at a society wedding I covered, Helene Rochas's efforts to bag Stavros Niarchos were thwarted by a badly proportioned Saint Laurent pillbox worn too far forward on the forehead. And once at tea in the Rue Bonaparte apartment of Madeleine Castaing, she proceeded to drag out all her beautiful old hatboxes from the legendary modiste Paulette. That's three Big Hat Moments. 
If you're at all interested in headgear, Montappone should be on your list. Hats are the great fashion prescription, a reassuring antidote to the trampy antics of pantyless starlets and a muffled echo of a time when ladies were Ladies. Lately, designers as well as the worlds of hip-hop and Hollywood are loving their lids. For spring, Marni showed sky-high stovepipes; Prada, turbans. Marc Jacobs's collection for fall turns on a 1985 Givenchy picture hat. And we may yet discover that a fedora is what came between Cameron and Justin. You can admire milliners like Stephen Jones and Philip Treacy and walking hat installations like Isabella Blow and Anna Piaggi, but this is no time for bird-cage headwear. The money is on the classics: trilbys, Panamas, porkpies.
 Should you care if your porkpie is made in Italy? Montappone's 45 hat makers think so. Le Marche unfurls beside the Adriatic, backing onto Umbria, and is largely ignored by guidebooks. Shoes drive the regional economy, but hats are a $260 million-a-year business in Italy. Sixty million of them -- 70 percent of domestic output and half of Europe's -- are made in Montappone and in six neighboring towns.
 ''It's difficult to get milliners to change, but these guys are open and have a good eye,'' says Orlando Palacios, who owns the Manhattan hat emporium Worth & Worth and buys straw fedoras in Montappone. ''Their colors are not just the normal blacks, beiges and grays. They do a mossy green like you'd see on an old whitewashed wall.''
 Gianluca Messico, proprietor of the culty men's shop Moschus in nearby Senigallia, looked insulted when I suggested that Tuscany, Montappone's historic rival for straw and other hats, might make a better one. ''For quality,'' Messico sniffed, ''there's only Montappone.''
 Specialized manufacturing districts fabricating everything from buttons to restaurant supplies are a hopeful weapon in Italy's ongoing battle against massive production losses to Asia. Montappone is having it both ways, promoting its own hats while doing business with the enemy. The Sorbatti company -- which sells a ravishing superfino Panama for $1,000, a relative bargain -- imports one million pieces a year in finished goods from China, half the firm's volume. The other half allows the co-owner Marco Sorbatti to live with himself. The Italians have a rich culture of making things. If they stop, how will they know who they are?
 Montappone is as proud of producing gazillions of licensed Spiderman and Hello Kitty baseball caps as it is hats for Dolce & Gabanna: a chapeau is a chapeau is a chapeau. For Laura Sorbatti, Marco's cousin and the owner of the firm Icas, whose love of hot pants and sunlamps has made her the Donatella Versace of the hat world, that chapeau is a hideous cap with the word ''gold'' picked out in rhinestones. Many ascribe to the romantic notion that hat making is encoded on the DNA of the Montapponese, and that they are capable of making any kind of hat fashion throws at them. But it is tempting to conclude that they might just as well be producing La-Z-Boys.
 Hats have been made here since the 17th century, the first in straw. It's still a popular material, but don't go expecting to see old ladies plaiting in doorways: straw is now imported in woven strips to be assembled by machine. In the old days, hand-weaving was a mindless task locals did while doing something else, like walking to church. The figures in the municipal hall's naive 19th-century fresco of Montappone's townscape have golden ribbons streaming from their hands.
 No firm commercializes the sort of hat (catnip to collectors) that put the town on the map. To acquire a pastorella -- designed to keep the rays off suffering shepherdesses -- you must attend Il Cappello di Paglia (the straw-hat festival) in July, when they are woven by retirees and sold for about $70. Each one takes eight hours and 23 feet of straw strips one inch wide and 13 strands strong. It's a folkloric event that despite its staginess (oxen pull carts piled with hay) rings sincere, and it marks the only time of the year that the local companies get together to sell hats to the public. Residents dance jigs in the squares, and the wine flows.
 Outside the fair, Montappone has its charms. A fraction of the town's 1,800 inhabitants live in the stone borgo antico on the hilltop, encircled by blunt, stuccoed boxes built on hat fortunes. But what's a little graceless architecture when you're having an authentic mom-and-pop experience? The girl behind the counter at the New Bar cafe looks like she's never seen a tourist. Grown men watch cartoons while lunching at La Carovana. Personally I find it impossible not to admire a place whose antipasti offerings include a saute, lightly bound with egg, of diced lamb heart, liver, intestines and spleen as well as one organ, lung, the U.S.D.A. won't let you eat.
 And of course, there are the hats. The town's engagingly scrappy hat museum displays Fellini's last fedora, and a nearby exhibit shows pazzo one-off creations incorporating, say, a mechanized carousel. Although Complit is the only company with an outlet shop, if you call ahead, most factories are happy to sell directly to visitors, even tossing in a tour. At N.T.S., you can watch a felt bowler take shape on a hissing hydraulic press, then stroll out with it, or a top hat, a mere $40 poorer. 
 A $13 boater brought my Big Hat Moments to four. Check out the original Dreamgirls on the cover of ''At the Copa.'' 
 Essentials Montappone, Italy 
 Getting there 
 The nearest airport is in Ancona. From there, it's about an hour's drive to Montappone. 
 HOTEL Palazzo dalla Casapiccola Antiques a go-go. Piazzola V. Gioberti 2, Recanati; 011-39-071-757-4818; www.palazzodallacasapiccola.it; doubles from $160.
 Restaurant La Carovana Borgo XX Settembre 64; 011-39-073-476-0357; entrees from $20 to $55.
 Sights and activities Il Cappello di Paglia The festival will be held this year on July 21 and 22. 011-39-333-825-8462; www.ilcappellodipaglia.it. Museo del Capello Via Marzo 8; 011-39-073-476-0426.
 BUYING Sorbatti Via Giacomo Leopardi 18; 011-39-073-476-0982. Complit Via S. Giorgio 2B; 011-39-073-476-0712. N.T.S. Via Spazzi 9/a; 011-39-073-476-0291.
 AT HOME Worth & Worth Hats since 1922. 45 West 57th Street; (212) 265-2887.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday in T: Travel, about hat making in Montappone, Italy, misspelled the name of a museum there. It is Museo del Cappello (Museum of the Hat), not Capello (Hair). Also, the headline rendered incorrectly the plural of hat. It is cappelli -- not capelli, which is the plural of hair.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cap And Town: Into the 20th century, Montappone's hat makers trudged from town to town selling their wares. Today, they have diversified to satisfy clients from Diesel to Disney.
The last straw Destined to encircle the crown of a Stetson, strands of linen are woven into a fine flat braid at the Montappone company I.L.M. Human hands still do some of the wrapping and the shaping at the hat maker N.T.S. the town of montappone, Italy, has been making capelli since the 17th century. Christopher Petkanas doffs his cap. Crown jewels The town's hat museum enshrines Fellini's fedora. Another exhibit displays pazzo designs, including one in pasta.
Shelf life In Montappone you can buy a hat directly from the factory floor of places like N.T.S. Dream weaver At the July festival, elders make the kind of hats worn by their nonna's nonna. Always in fashion From left, Salvador Dali and Elsa Schiaparelli collaborated on the shoe hat in 1937
in 1965, the Supremes' affair with Tin Pan Alley went to their heads
Halston designed a cap in the form of a cracked egg that appeared on a 1966 cover of Harper's Bazaar
Sienna Miller is the latest Hollywood ''It'' girl to crown her look with a fedora. Topping it off The peacocks Tom Wolfe and Ed Hayes buy their lids at Manhattan's Worth & Worth, which sources straw from Montappone. (Photographs By Domingo Milella
Domingo Milella. Bottom, From Left: Domingo Milella
Motown Records Archives
Metropolitan Museum Of Art, Gift Of Rose Messing, 1974
Tony Cenicola
Getty Images
 Jeannie Rusten) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%) Travel and Vacations; Hats and Caps

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (51%) Christopher Petkanas

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (85%) ITALY (94%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (85%); EUROPE (78%) Italy; montappone (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



525 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: African, American

BYLINE: By ROB NIXON. 
Rob Nixon is the Rachel Carson professor of English at the University of Wisconsin.

 BODY:
THE BEAUTIFUL THINGS 
 THAT HEAVEN BEARS
 By Dinaw Mengestu.
 228 pp. Riverhead Books. $22.95.
The Alexandrian exile Andre Aciman used to linger in a tatty Upper West Side park just for the bittersweet pleasure of shadowing his surroundings with images from cities he'd known and lost, remaking the architecture of the present, as he put it, ''so as not to write off the past.'' Dinaw Mengestu's first novel is a tale of just such a shadowing of two cities -- Washington, where the narrator, Sepha Stephanos, lives in exile, and Addis Ababa, his city of memory and violent expulsion. As Stephanos wanders the half-known, half-remembered roads of America's capital, he finds himself drawn into conversation with his dead father, murdered before his eyes during Ethiopia's Red Terror. 
 ''The Beautiful Things That Heaven Bears'' is about the animate presence of loss, about a man struggling to find traction in his ostensibly current life as proprietor of an ailing Logan Circle grocery store. Almost every page reminds us that ''departure'' and ''arrival'' are deceptively decisive words. Airport terminals, passenger lounges and customs posts cement the illusion that we know when we're coming and going. Stephanos knows better. It has been almost 17 years since he fled his country's revolution and fetched up in Washington, but in no simple sense can he be said to have arrived. ''How was I supposed to live in America,'' he exclaims, ''when I had never really left Ethiopia?''
 Stephanos has, however, lived in America long enough to collect a few aphorisms to survive by: ''Never trust anyone who says 'Trust me.' Try to find high places to look down from.'' And he has moved up from his first job as a hotel bellhop. (''My arms and legs were numb from 13 hours of lifting luggage and bending at every moment to someone else's needs. ... I couldn't believe that my father had died and I had been spared in order to carry luggage in and out of a room.'') But Stephanos's little store is tilted at a daunting angle to the official American dream.
 The deeply felt pain in Mengestu's novel is offset by the solace of friendship -- whether it's a friendship that hovers on the verge of romance, a friendship between an adult and a child or, above all, the friendships that steady the daily lives of fellow immigrants. Mengestu brilliantly summons up the tribe Maeve Brennan once called ''travelers in residence'' -- men and women suspended between continents; suspended, too, between memory and forgetting.
 Stephanos and his great confidants, Congo Joe and Ken the Kenyan, first met as hotel workers shortly after their expulsion from Africa. Ken has ascended to the rank of engineer; Joe remains stuck waiting tables in a downtown restaurant. Their friendship is anchored by ritual observances: a particular bar, a particular jukebox song, a particular sequence of quips. This band of brothers likes to gather after hours in the back of Stephanos's store, where they down Johnnie Walker Black from styrofoam cups and play their memory game: name an African dictator, then recall the country and the year he seized power. Bukassa. Mobutu. Amin. They have memorized the details of some 30 African coups. When the coups stop, Joe declares, so will their game.
 Mengestu has a fine ear for the way immigrants from damaged places talk in the sanctuary of their own company, free from the exhausting courtesies of self-anthropologizing explanation. He gets, pitch perfect, the warmly abrasive wit of the violently displaced and their need to keep alive some textured memories -- even memories that wound -- amid America's demanding amnesia. Mengestu understands the threats these men face, not least the threat of expectations. Ken can finally afford to buy himself some dental work that would help him assimilate upward, but he chooses not to: '' 'You can never forget where you came from if you have teeth as ugly as these,' he said. He grinned once more. He tapped a slightly brown front tooth for effect.''
 What more potent setting is there than Washington for a novel about the architecture of hope and memory? As Stephanos wanders, Bloom-like, down back streets and broad avenues, he takes in both the neglected statuary that attempts to do the official work of remembrance and the anonymous heroisms of ordinary people, unnoticed by anyone but a neighbor or a storekeeper or a child. Mengestu also widens his canvas by giving the novel a romantic turn, reviving an old plot device: a stranger comes to town. The stranger in question is a white American woman, Judith McMasterson. ''Before Judith, these were the only reasons white people had ever come into the neighborhood: to deliver official notices, investigate crimes and check up on the children of negligent parents.''
 Judith starts to renovate the house next door to Stephanos's store and so becomes one of the harbingers of an ''urban renewal'' fiercely resisted by the community. But she's also a harbinger of more personal change, as Stephanos feels a growing affection for her and her daughter, 11-year-old Naomi, the child of Judith's severed marriage to a Mauritanian economist. Naomi floods Stephanos's tawdry life with light, laughter and energy.
 It's rare that a novelist who can comfortably take on knotty political subjects like exile, memory and class conflict is also able to write with wisdom, wit and tenderness about the frisson of romance. Mengestu skillfully sketches the precarious attraction between Stephanos and Judith, but his portrait of the bond between Stephanos and Naomi is even more extraordinary. In our culture's rigid judgment, a friendship between an 11-year-old girl and a 36-year-old man is creepy by default. The bravest thing about Mengestu's novel is the way he pours such deep, nonsexual yearning into this relationship, which is life-saving for Stephanos and Naomi alike. 
 Both impassioned readers, they fall into the habit of reading aloud together. Among Naomi's favorites is ''The Brothers Karamazov'' -- because, as Judith explains to Stephanos, it's the sort of book that will keep Stephanos reading to her for hours. He makes his way through the brothers' story with all the drama he can summon: ''This was exactly what my father would have done. ... He would have made the story an event, as grand and real as life.'' What we see is a man reading to a little girl. But -- and Mengestu is too subtle a writer to declare this outright -- what we also see is a ceremony of reading shared by two children of vanished fathers who, although years apart in age, have learned to use books to hold off, if only temporarily, the acknowledgment of loss.
 ''The Beautiful Things That Heaven Bears'' takes us effortlessly through impressive changes of theme and mood. On one page, we're listening to Stephanos gently observing that ''sometimes while I read, Naomi would lay her head against my arm or in my lap and rest there, wide awake and attentive, until forced to move. It was just enough to make me see how one could want so much more out of life.'' Elsewhere, just as sharply rendered, Joe sarcastically re-enacts an evening waiting tables at a restaurant where senators and congressmen gather: ''It was terrible at the Colony today. Absolutely terrible. The natives went crazy. We ran out of the risotto. The women were tearing off their pearls. The men were spitting in their wine. We almost had to tear gas the place.''
 Saul Bellow shadows these pages: the dangling men, the urban wanderings, the uncle who writes obsessive letters to the authorities. Above all, Mengestu shares Bellow's genius for the quick, decisive physical portrait -- what Brent Staples once described as Bellow's gift for making ''the folds in a bald man's head seem like a window on the soul.'' Yet Mengestu uses this talent to open up a wider, more diverse neighborhood of empathies.
 Again and again, Stephanos's story makes us consider what it means to be displaced: from a local community, from a distant nation, from a love you had hoped to settle into. In Mengestu's work, there's no such thing as the nondescript life. He notices, and there are whole worlds in his noticing. He has written a novel for an age ravaged by the moral and military fallout of cross-cultural incuriosity. In a society slick with ''truthiness'' -- and Washington may be the capital of that -- there's something hugely hopeful about this young writer's watchful honesty and egalitarian tenderness. This is a great African novel, a great Washington novel and a great American novel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I had never really left Ethiopia.'' Addis Ababa, 2004. (Photo by Paolo Pellegrin/Magnum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); LITERATURE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); AIRPORTS (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (66%); HOTEL STAFF (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Rob Nixon; Dinaw Mengestu

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); ETHIOPIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



526 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Boom and Bust

BYLINE: By SHERI BERMAN. 
Sheri Berman, who teaches political science at Barnard College, is the author of ''The Primacy of Politics: Social Democracy and the Making of Europe's Twentieth Century.''

 BODY:
THE EUROPEAN ECONOMY SINCE 1945
 Coordinated Capitalism and Beyond.
 By Barry Eichengreen.
 495 pp. Princeton University Press. $35.
Postwar European history falls neatly into two periods. From 1945 to 1973, the countries of Western Europe recovered rapidly from the almost unimaginable devastation caused by World War II and then took off, growing faster than the United States and more than twice as fast as their own historical trends. From 1973 to the present, however, their economies have struggled with low growth and high unemployment, lagging behind both international competitors and their own earlier success.
 As a result of this divided history, the so-called European model has both cheerleaders and naysayers. Social democrats and others on the left focus on the first period, applauding the continent's ability to generate high living standards while cushioning individuals and societies from the ravages of unfettered markets. Right-wing critics and free marketeers focus on Europe's contemporary problems, arguing that the continent's generous welfare benefits and heavy regulation condemn it to continuing decline. 
 Both views contain some truth. But since the same conditions that led to success in one era have produced problems in the next, neither interpretation fully explains the story. In ''The European Economy Since 1945,'' Barry Eichengreen, a professor of economics and political science at the University of California, Berkeley, presents not only a comprehensive account of Europe's postwar economic experience but also an important analysis of capitalist development more generally.
 Drawing on his credentials as both an economist and a political scientist, Eichengreen argues that the key to understanding Europe's initial triumphs and later troubles lies in recognizing that the recipe for growth varies, depending on one's position in the economic race. In the years after 1945, Europe needed to recover from the war and catch up with the United States. This involved what economists call ''extensive growth'' -- essentially, increasing the number of workers doing familiar kinds of jobs. Extensive growth requires adopting existing technology, using labor more efficiently and generating high levels of investment. After the war, Europe developed a variety of institutions well suited to these tasks.
 Large trade unions, employer organizations and corporatist arrangements, Eichengreen shows, helped labor-market partners reach and sustain long-term agreements to limit wage demands, ensure high levels of investment and plan for routine industrial restructuring. Unions agreed to hold down labor costs and in return were given either representation on corporate boards (Germany), influence over government planning and policy making (Sweden and France) or the ability to dole out government jobs and funds (Austria). Strong welfare states helped cement this bargain, providing workers with generous benefits to offset their wage restraint and the unemployment generated by industrial restructuring.
 Schools and training programs, meanwhile, were designed to turn out workers adept at handling existing technology and equipment. Banks developed long-term relationships with their corporate clients, lending money for business expansion that relied on known technologies. And the government bureaucracies of nationalized industries helped mobilize and coordinate the resources necessary for the relatively clear-cut tasks associated with catch-up growth.
 All this worked just as it was supposed to, generating prosperity across the continent. By the early 1970s, however, the potential for extensive growth had been largely exhausted. Europe's businesses and infrastructure had been rebuilt, its labor force transferred from agriculture to manufacturing, the latest technology imported and adopted. At this point, Eichengreen says, ''the continent had to find other ways of sustaining its growth. It had to switch from growth based on brute-force capital accumulation and the acquisition of known technologies to growth based on increases in efficiency and internally generated innovation'' -- that is, to ''intensive growth.''
 The problem, of course, was that Europe was now saddled with institutions ill suited to the creativity and flexibility that intensive growth demands. As Eichengreen puts it, ''the continent's very success at exploiting the opportunities for catch-up and convergence after World War II doomed it to difficulties thereafter.'' The new situation called for flexible and mobile work relationships, technological novelty and the financing of risky ventures -- none of which Europe's postwar institutions were good at. In other words, the same structures and practices that had led to the continent's golden age have now produced a malaise. (Eichengreen adds that a similar dynamic has played out in Eastern Europe, since Soviet institutions were not bad at extensive growth but awful at intensive growth.)
 Eichengreen backs up his argument with reams of data and detailed examples, yet he writes well enough to make his book accessible to general readers. He reminds us that economic development calls for much more than simply the unleashing of market forces; it demands institutions capable of generating the resources, skills and relationships necessary to handle the particular economic challenges a country has to face at a particular time. And by demonstrating how institutions helpful in one era can become counterproductive in another, Eichengreen has important lessons about the future to teach both policy makers and publics.
 ''The European Economy Since 1945'' should make readers wary of universal prescriptions for economic policy, since it shows how the fit between policies and circumstances is clearly more important than the nature of either in isolation. The strategies and institutions a country should adopt will depend not only on its particular preferences, but also on what role it can reasonably expect to play in the international economy.
 So what should the nations of Europe do now that the advantages of their ''economic backwardness'' have been fully exploited? Without settling the debate between the European model's supporters and detractors, Eichengreen suggests that international competition is compelling Europe to abandon its distinctive model and become more flexible.
 This will not be easy. Eichengreen himself stresses the difficulty of institutional change, and so readers may come away from his book concluding that Europe's economic future is bleak -- at least in a contest with other developed countries that provide few government benefits. 
 Yet thanks to political will and creative policymaking, as Eichengreen points out, some countries on the continent, particularly the Nordic ones, have managed to adapt successfully. They are keeping themselves internationally competitive even while continuing to provide social benefits in health, education and social insurance far above American standards. Others, like France and Germany, will have to follow their lead. Otherwise, they will probably face the decline the pessimists have long been predicting.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); POLITICS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); LITERATURE (65%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: Sheri Berman; Barry Eichengreen

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



527 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Northeast Los Angeles: Ready for a Close-Up

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A PSYCHOLOGICAL barrier still exists among home buyers here. Downtown is the center of an east-west divide, with the established and famous Hollywood Hills the hub of desirability to the west. To the east, there is a historic hilly area. If Angelenos know about it at all, they generally consider it a less attractive part of town.
 But as real estate prices have risen sharply over the last five years, home buyers have been migrating east to discover a group of neighborhoods known collectively as Northeast Los Angeles, or NELA. They are being enticed by Victorian homes dating to the 1890s, Craftsman and Mission Revival homes from the turn of the 20th century and newly desirable midcentury homes, designed with an orientation toward the outdoors.
Eagle Rock, Mount Washington and Highland Park -- with a total population of 82,000, according to the 2000 census -- are three of the better-known NELA neighborhoods. They are all within Los Angeles proper, in the northeast hills, which were first settled in the late 1800s. And despite rising prices, most houses there are still relatively affordable compared with similar homes in West Los Angeles. 
 ''A $450,000 house in NELA would cost $750,000 in West Los Angeles,'' said Bob Taylor, founder of Bob Taylor Properties, who has been a broker in NELA for 27 years. ''And it only takes 15 minutes to get downtown from here. In West Los Angeles, it could take 30 minutes or more.'' Creative types who work in the film and television industry enjoy close proximity to major studios, like Warner Brothers and Universal. And then there are the views. 
 ''The sunsets are absolutely spectacular,'' said David Spancer, who with his wife, Apryl Lundsten, fell in love with a midcentury modern home that sits high in the hills of Eagle Rock. Their 2,100-square-foot house with three bedrooms and two and a half baths cost $495,000 in 2003. Built in 1966, the house still has much of its original detailing, as well as a built-in bar and stools, a barbecue and rotisserie, and a large old-fashioned Chambers refrigerator that still hums along. There's also a built-in can-opener and coffee maker. 
 But the real treat is a 1,500-square-foot west-facing balcony that runs the length of the house, offering views from the Pacific Ocean to the Hollywood Hills on a clear day. ''And most of my work is at Universal Studios, which is only a 20-minute drive,'' Mr. Spancer said, standing on the balcony on a 75-degree February day. 
 Mr. Spancer is a script coordinator, while Ms. Lundsten is a longtime radio journalist who recently started a podcasting business, L.A. PodSquad. Along with commercial work, she and a business partner produce a regular podcast called Eagle Rock Talk, featuring many of the neighborhood's new business owners. 
 ''It's nice to be part of a community that's coming alive,'' she said while giving a tour of the commercial district, where a smattering of cafes, restaurants and boutiques have opened to meet the demand of new homeowners in the area. 
 Blue Heeler Imports is one such boutique, opened by Shannon Bedell, who lives in Mount Washington. Ms. Bedell did well during the Internet boom, and she was able to buy her Mount Washington home in 1999 for $375,000, along with two lots next door for an additional $80,000. Having lived in Australia for a bit, Ms. Bedell decided to open a boutique featuring Australian products. 
 ''I looked for eight months all over West Los Angeles for a retail space, but I finally decided that Eagle Rock was an up-and-coming commercial district,'' Ms. Bedell said. ''I've definitely noticed an influx of industry people shopping at my store, and it feels good to invest in my own community.''
 Not to mention that it is a much easier commute from Ms. Bedell's 1,500-square-foot two-bedroom Spanish Mission-style home, built in the 1930s, which she shares with Shawn Bishop, a photographer with an even easier commute -- to the second bedroom, where he keeps his photo lab and office.
 But once again, it is the outdoor space that steals the show. Ms. Bedell's 1,200-square-foot split-level balcony -- reached from different parts of the house by five sets of French doors and shaded by old-growth trees -- overlooks the hills of Mount Washington, which could be mistaken for Tuscany. 
 Community activists credit a strong historic preservation movement for stabilizing NELA, especially in the 1970s, when Highland Park -- which sits in a valley between Mount Washington and Eagle Rock -- began to experience gang problems and disinvestment. 
 Charles J. Fisher, a historian who grew up in Mount Washington, married in the early 1980s and moved into a Craftsman home built in 1908 in Highland Park. He immediately noticed that because the area had high-density zoning, developers were buying historical Craftsman and Mission Revival homes, tearing them down and building cheap apartment buildings.
 With some other concerned residents, Mr. Fisher founded the Highland Park Heritage Trust, which succeeded in getting a historic-preservation overlay zone for much of Highland Park in 1994. The city planning department has instituted an approval process for modifying historic homes within the zone.
 But it wasn't until the more recent real estate boom that people from outside the area began to discover the housing stock.
 ''The overlay literally ground the crazy development to a halt,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''But what's been happening now, people are moving into the homes and fixing them up. At the time we were fighting for the historic overlay, the real estate market was in a slump. Our biggest ally was the poor economy, when there wasn't a building boom going on. Otherwise, there would have been a lot more opposition from developers. So when the real estate values skyrocketed more recently, developers went looking elsewhere. We got lucky.'' 
 That is not to say that prices have not gone up. For the ZIP code 90041 (Eagle Rock), the highest and lowest prices paid this year were $1.2 million and $400,000, with a median of $579,500, according to Multiple Listing Service figures provided by Mr. Taylor. In 2001, that ZIP code's median was $246,000.
 Even in Highland Park, which is thought of more as an entry-level home buyer's market, prices have gone up considerably. For its ZIP code, 90042, the highest price paid this year was $655,000 and the lowest $366,000, with a median price of $487,500. In 2001 the median price was $182,000. 
 But housing costs still seem reasonable, compared with West Los Angeles. And some west-Angeleno types are moving in. Mr. Taylor said he had recently sold a 3,000-square-foot Craftsman home on a hill and surrounded by 18,000 square feet of land, with a guest apartment over a three-car garage, for $849,000 to an actress whom he asked, for privacy reasons, not to identify.
 ''You still don't see too many recognizable actresses looking in Highland Park,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''But that house on that much land would be a couple million in West Los Angeles. And you probably wouldn't get the views.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHOW STEALER -- Residents of Northeast Los Angeles enjoy vistas of Mount Washington, which could be mistaken for Tuscany. The view is from the home of Shannon Bedell, a local boutique owner. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 THE OTHER SIDE -- As home prices have risen, buyers have migrated to a group of neighborhoods known as Northeast Los Angeles, or NELA, from which offer views of the downtown skyline, above. Residents include Shannon Bedell and Shawn Bishop, far left, and Apryl Lundsten, left. At center are homes on Mount Washington. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); FILM (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); CENSUS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); WRITERS (60%); PODCASTING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: TAYLOR PROPERTIES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (54%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (54%)

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (97%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); PACIFIC OCEAN (51%) UNITED STATES (97%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



528 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: New-Generation Collectors Give Toyota Some Respect

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
ONE of the few automotive niches where Toyota does not yet have a strong presence is the collector car market. Fifty years after its first troubled attempts to bring cars to American roads, there are signs that this may be changing: quietly, and outside the usual collector car circles, a groundswell of interest in vintage Toyotas has been building. 
 One of the most talked-about cars to appear at collector car auctions early this year was a frumpy Toyota family sedan, a 1966 four-door Corona that had been purchased in 1970 by Frank Kenney, one of the first Toyota dealers in the state of Washington. After paying $800 to buy the barely driven sedan from an elderly Seattle woman, he used the car as a showroom display rather than resell it.
Frank Kenney's son, Jerome, joked that some day he would drive the pastel blue Corona to his father's funeral, and did just that when his father died last August. Its duty fulfilled, he consigned the beautifully preserved Toyota to the Silver Auction sale in Fort McDowell, Ariz., in January. Its odometer showed just 8,768 miles. 
 For a nondescript econocar, the Corona caused a minor sensation. Many auctiongoers had never seen a Toyota from the 1960s. No wonder -- a lack of rustproofing assured a survival rate for those early Toyotas that was only slightly better than that of a passenger pigeon. The bidding quickly sailed past the reserve of $12,000, and when the hammer fell, it had reached $16,740. 
 Interest in sportier Toyota models has also been growing. Joji Luz lives in the epicenter of the nascent Japanese collector car market -- Southern California -- and his enthusiasm for the Toyota marque is more typical of what you might expect to encounter at a Porsche or Corvette club meeting. Mr. Luz, who grew up in Manila, discovered the thrift and durability of Toyotas when his father's taxi fleet changed over to the Japanese imports. 
 Today, Mr. Luz owns 12 vintage Toyotas, including the fifth and 13th Celicas made, and he's aware of virtually every early Celica that comes on the market in California. Mr. Luz pegs the value of a stock, well-restored 1971-72 Celica at around $12,000. They can bring thousands more if modified with the dual-cam engine that was fitted to cars sold in the Japanese market.
 The Celica was among the first Japanese entries into the sporty personal car market; a Liftback version showed a marked resemblance to a scaled-down 1967 Mustang. In stock form, the first-generation Celica (1970-77) was a modest performer. Most road tests reported 0-to-60 acceleration times for the Celica from 11 to 13 seconds, about the same as an MGB or Fiat Spider of the era. 
 But the Celica could outhandle both of those sports cars. Road & Track's review of a 1974 Celica GT reported that the Toyota was quicker through a slalom course than any other car it had tested except one -- a Ferrari Dino.
 The Celica also had enormous potential for hot-rodding. Janet Guthrie, an aspiring racecar driver who would become the first woman to compete in the Indianapolis 500, purchased a 1972 Celica -- the first new car she had ever owned -- and proceeded to take it apart and turn it into a racecar. She raced the car 51 times from 1973-75. In the car's final race under her ownership, Ms. Guthrie passed 20 cars in fewer than five laps to move into second place and on the final lap, passed an MGB for the win. 
 Robert Pass, a vintage car dealer in St. Louis, later owned the Guthrie Celica, racing it in the 1990s. ''It was a delightful racecar,'' he said. ''Its handling was as neutral and pleasant as any Alfa Romeo.'' 
 That statement might be considered heresy by traditional collectors. And there lies the rub with Japanese cars as collectibles: the old guard in the collector car world gives them no respect. A car like an early Celica, while stylish, well-built and as entertaining to drive as its contemporaries from Europe, has a hard time being taken seriously. Mr. Pass said that it boiled down to the perception that Japanese cars lacked the heritage and cachet of European cars. 
 But the post-baby boomers who grew up with Japanese cars seem to care little what traditional collectors think, as evidenced by the growing number of gatherings devoted to Japanese cars. Twelve years ago, when the Toyota Owners and Restorers Club in Long Beach, Calif., started Toyotafest, it was a 10-car get-together. Terry Yamaguchi, the club's director for special events, expects more than 300 Toyotas at this year's event on May 12. 
 David Swig, a promoter of Motoring J Style, a Vallejo, Calif., all-Japanese car festival to be held on July 28, is also betting that Japanese cars will be the next big thing in collectibles. Mr. Swig said the event would be the first in the United States to include a judged concours d'elegance exclusively for vintage Japanese cars. 
 Perhaps the most collectible Toyotas of all, at least in the United States, are the FJ series Land Cruisers. The FJ40 model, available in the United States in 1960-83, is by far the most popular among collectors of classic Land Cruisers. Rusty examples are still available for less than $5,000, but clean originals bring $17,000 to $20,000 and professionally restored FJ40s start at more than $30,000. Prices go up from there, depending on how fresh the restoration is and whether it was done by a well-known Land Cruiser specialist like TLC Inc. in Van Nuys, Calif., where restorations can cost up to $85,000. 
 Land Cruisers have a mystique all their own that conjures up exotic locales like Africa or the Andes. According to Jonathan Ward, who owns TLC with his wife, Jamie, vintage Land Cruisers resonate with anyone who has spent a lot of time in remote parts of the world where they are often the only form of motorized transport. 
 And like other memorable vehicles, the Land Cruiser refuses to die; Toyota's new FJ Cruiser was inspired by the classic FJ40. 
 If there is a holy grail for Toyota collectors, it is the 2000GT. Only 351 of these striking handbuilt sports cars were produced from 1967 to 1970. 
 The quality of the 2000GT would now rival a Lexus, as would the price. In 1967, a new 2000GT cost more than $7,000 -- as much as a 1967 Porsche 911S and almost $2,000 more than a new Jaguar E-Type. Buyers were not ready for a Japanese car that expensive, no matter how good, and the 2000GT disappeared quietly after only three years. But today, a good one commands nearly a quarter of a million dollars. 
 The 2000GT story has an interesting footnote. In 1968, Carroll Shelby prepared a team of 2000GTs for Sports Car Club of America production-class racing. He was impressed enough to inquire about obtaining a Toyota dealership. The December 1999 issue of Car and Driver magazine blamed Shelby's good friend Lee Iacocca for talking Shelby out of it, by boasting that the Big Three would kick them ''into the Pacific Ocean.'' 
 With products like the Ford Granada, the Chrysler Cordoba, the infamous K-Car and the Dodge Omni to do so, Mr. Iacocca's statement would prove laughable, especially as Toyota's sales have passed those of Mr. Iacocca's former employers, Ford and Chrysler.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1966 Corona (Photo by Silver Auctions)
1961 Toyopet
1972 Celica ST
1976 Celica GT
1979 Land Cruiser
 1967 2000GT 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%) Automobiles; Collectors and Collections; Auctions

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

PERSON: Rob Sass

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



529 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: New Identities Spring From Former Retail Stores

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE small-city department store has had a tough few decades.
 Once a one-stop shop for overcoats and makeup, with a smiling operator in the elevator, the stores began struggling to compete against suburban malls in the 1970s and then against big-box retailers in the 1990s.
As a result, many of those department stores have closed despite having been longtime fixtures of their streetscapes. 
 Now, though, as many communities try to rejuvenate their downtowns, investing in areas they had once written off, the former department stores and the land they sat on have become hot real estate.
 About a dozen sites across the suburbs of New York City -- including in Garden City on Long Island; Yonkers; New Haven; and Morristown and Montclair in New Jersey -- are prime pieces of large-scale redevelopment plans. Some are slated for conversions, to house new types of tenants or, more likely, to be torn down.
 That these properties are in high demand does not surprise Alexander D. Garvin, an architect, urban planner and former New York City Planning Commission member who has written about national redevelopment trends.
 ''There's this strong desire among everybody to be downtown, to have an urban lifestyle, whatever that means,'' he said. ''It's happening in Nebraska and Tennessee, but in our area, because the city of New York is growing so rapidly, the impact on the surrounding counties is really dramatic.''
 In Nassau County, Winthrop-University Hospital, in Mineola, is taking over a former Saks Fifth Avenue building in next-door Garden City to better tap a densely populated area where many of its patients live. 
 Weight machines for injury rehabilitation and two 75-foot-long swimming pools will occupy about 70,000 square feet, or about half the space of the 45-year-old Saks building, whose thick floors are well suited for heavy medical equipment, said Alfred Weissman, its Yonkers-based developer. The center is set to open in late summer, he said. 
 Part of the building -- at 1300 Franklin Avenue, between 13th and 14th Streets -- is being altered to create sidewalk-level retail berths, although its core, with a distinctive flat roof and white bricks, towers above the additions.
 In its mid-20th-century heyday, Franklin Avenue was considered Long Island's most prestigious and popular shopping destination, residents and historians said, boasting department stores like Bloomingdale's, Peck & Peck, and Oppenheim, Collins & Company.
 Though their buildings still loom, few of Garden City's department stores remain, with places like Bloomingdale's having long ago decamped for the Roosevelt Field mall. Still, tenants are hopeful that a new clustering effect could occur. 
 ''This store is easy to get into, it's easy to park at, and the infrastructure is good,'' said Daniel P. Walsh, Winthrop's president and chief executive. ''With a little imagination, it can be converted into something useful for the community.''
 Yet when the historic value of a building is questionable, like the former Genung's in Yonkers, it may not avoid the wrecking ball, especially if it stands in the way of sweeping redevelopment.
 The 40,000-square-foot store at 7 Main Street, whose facade features wide windows and three flag poles, was built in 1928. Genung's closed in the mid-1970s, said Joan Jennings, the assistant executive director of the Yonkers downtown business improvement district, and then was Yonkers's library until 2003. 
 In September, the city will break ground on the first phase of a 450-acre redevelopment that calls for apartments, stores, parks and a minor league baseball stadium. The redevelopment will also uncover a downtown stretch of the Saw Mill River, which was tunneled over long ago. Genung's will eventually be razed to make way for a new building, said David Simpson, a Yonkers spokesman.
 Joseph V. Apicella, the executive project manager and a Yonkers native, said he had fond memories of shopping for Christmas presents at Genung's in the 1960s.
 ''It seemed to me that the personalized service, you couldn't beat it,'' said Mr. Apicella, who added that he hoped Yonkers's future stores could recreate that spirit.
 Similarly, the development potential of an empty lot in a booming real-estate market, coupled with a sharp downturn in business, spelled the end of Epstein's, a department store that opened in Morristown, N.J., in 1910. Today, the site, which faces a park on South Street, is largely piles of pinkish rubble.
 Ultimately, though, this missing-tooth gap in the streetscape will feature luxury condominiums, apartments, offices, a parking garage and 70,000 square feet of stores, said Stephen A. Santola, the executive vice president of Woodmont Properties, based in Parsippany, and part of the development team.
 Michael Levine, a developer of the project and a descendant of the store's founder, said: ''A lot of people were sad to lose their local store. But the more important thing is to create in-town residential living, for the long-term stability of the town.'' 
 The transition from department store to mixed-use development is not always smooth. 
 In New Haven, city leaders have unveiled a $150 million plan for apartments, condos, stores, a day care center and a parking garage in a tower slated for the former home of Shartenberg's, a colonnaded department store known for its holiday gift grab bag. 
 Although the acre-and-a-half site, which is bounded on one edge by Chapel Street, a ragtag former shopping district, has been a parking lot since 1966, the idea of building something new there can still stir passion. One concern is that the proposed tower will be too tall, although Bruce R. Becker, the president of the development firm, Becker and Becker Associates, of Fairfield, Conn., says the design is still a work in progress. 
 Anstress Farwell, the president of the Urban Design League, which has worked to make the downtown friendlier to pedestrians and is opposed to the Becker plan as it stands, said the project did not address a more fundamental issue: local residents do not have a lot of places to shop. Despite a recent influx of restaurants and high-end boutiques, there are few places to buy affordable pairs of shoes, she said, the kind that in an earlier era were sold by department stores.
 ''Even people with money like a bargain, and everybody likes basic goods,'' Ms. Farwell said. ''Those anchor tenants are necessary to make a downtown really work.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALTERED STATES -- Above, in Morristown, N.J., the former Epstein's, which will yield to a multiuse development. In Garden City, N.Y., Alfred Weissman, developer of the old Saks Fifth Avenue, which is becoming a health center. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (63%); HISTORY (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Suburbs

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



530 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: New Identities Spring From Former Retail Stores

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE small-city department store has had a tough few decades.
 Once a one-stop shop for overcoats and makeup, with a smiling operator in the elevator, the stores began struggling to compete against suburban malls in the 1970s and then against big-box retailers in the 1990s.
As a result, many of those department stores have closed despite having been longtime fixtures of their streetscapes. 
 Now, though, as many communities try to rejuvenate their downtowns, investing in areas they had once written off, the former department stores and the land they sat on have become hot real estate.
 About a dozen sites across the suburbs of New York City -- including in Garden City on Long Island; Yonkers; New Haven; and Morristown and Montclair in New Jersey -- are prime pieces of large-scale redevelopment plans. Some are slated for conversions, to house new types of tenants or, more likely, to be torn down.
 That these properties are in high demand does not surprise Alexander D. Garvin, an architect, urban planner and former New York City Planning Commission member who has written about national redevelopment trends.
 ''There's this strong desire among everybody to be downtown, to have an urban lifestyle, whatever that means,'' he said. ''It's happening in Nebraska and Tennessee, but in our area, because the city of New York is growing so rapidly, the impact on the surrounding counties is really dramatic.''
 In Nassau County, Winthrop-University Hospital, in Mineola, is taking over a former Saks Fifth Avenue building in next-door Garden City to better tap a densely populated area where many of its patients live. 
 Weight machines for injury rehabilitation and two 75-foot-long swimming pools will occupy about 70,000 square feet, or about half the space of the 45-year-old Saks building, whose thick floors are well suited for heavy medical equipment, said Alfred Weissman, its Yonkers-based developer. The center is set to open in late summer, he said. 
 Part of the building -- at 1300 Franklin Avenue, between 13th and 14th Streets -- is being altered to create sidewalk-level retail berths, although its core, with a distinctive flat roof and white bricks, towers above the additions.
 In its mid-20th-century heyday, Franklin Avenue was considered Long Island's most prestigious and popular shopping destination, residents and historians said, boasting department stores like Bloomingdale's, Peck & Peck, and Oppenheim, Collins & Company.
 Though their buildings still loom, few of Garden City's department stores remain, with places like Bloomingdale's having long ago decamped for the Roosevelt Field mall. Still, tenants are hopeful that a new clustering effect could occur. 
 ''This store is easy to get into, it's easy to park at, and the infrastructure is good,'' said Daniel P. Walsh, Winthrop's president and chief executive. ''With a little imagination, it can be converted into something useful for the community.''
 Yet when the historic value of a building is questionable, like the former Genung's in Yonkers, it may not avoid the wrecking ball, especially if it stands in the way of sweeping redevelopment.
 The 40,000-square-foot store at 7 Main Street, whose facade features wide windows and three flag poles, was built in 1928. Genung's closed in the mid-1970s, said Joan Jennings, the assistant executive director of the Yonkers downtown business improvement district, and then was Yonkers's library until 2003. 
 In September, the city will break ground on the first phase of a 450-acre redevelopment that calls for apartments, stores, parks and a minor league baseball stadium. The redevelopment will also uncover a downtown stretch of the Saw Mill River, which was tunneled over long ago. Genung's will eventually be razed to make way for a new building, said David Simpson, a Yonkers spokesman.
 Joseph V. Apicella, the executive project manager and a Yonkers native, said he had fond memories of shopping for Christmas presents at Genung's in the 1960s.
 ''It seemed to me that the personalized service, you couldn't beat it,'' said Mr. Apicella, who added that he hoped Yonkers's future stores could recreate that spirit.
 Similarly, the development potential of an empty lot in a booming real-estate market, coupled with a sharp downturn in business, spelled the end of Epstein's, a department store that opened in Morristown, N.J., in 1910. Today, the site, which faces a park on South Street, is largely piles of pinkish rubble.
 Ultimately, though, this missing-tooth gap in the streetscape will feature luxury condominiums, apartments, offices, a parking garage and 70,000 square feet of stores, said Stephen A. Santola, the executive vice president of Woodmont Properties, based in Parsippany, and part of the development team.
 Michael Levine, a developer of the project and a descendant of the store's founder, said: ''A lot of people were sad to lose their local store. But the more important thing is to create in-town residential living, for the long-term stability of the town.'' 
 The transition from department store to mixed-use development is not always smooth. 
 In New Haven, city leaders have unveiled a $150 million plan for apartments, condos, stores, a day care center and a parking garage in a tower slated for the former home of Shartenberg's, a colonnaded department store known for its holiday gift grab bag. 
 Although the acre-and-a-half site, which is bounded on one edge by Chapel Street, a ragtag former shopping district, has been a parking lot since 1966, the idea of building something new there can still stir passion. One concern is that the proposed tower will be too tall, although Bruce R. Becker, the president of the development firm, Becker and Becker Associates, of Fairfield, Conn., says the design is still a work in progress. 
 Anstress Farwell, the president of the Urban Design League, which has worked to make the downtown friendlier to pedestrians and is opposed to the Becker plan as it stands, said the project did not address a more fundamental issue: local residents do not have a lot of places to shop. Despite a recent influx of restaurants and high-end boutiques, there are few places to buy affordable pairs of shoes, she said, the kind that in an earlier era were sold by department stores.
 ''Even people with money like a bargain, and everybody likes basic goods,'' Ms. Farwell said. ''Those anchor tenants are necessary to make a downtown really work.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALTERED STATES -- Above, in Morristown, N.J., the former Epstein's, which will yield to a multiuse development. In Garden City, N.Y., Alfred Weissman, developer of the old Saks Fifth Avenue, which is becoming a health center. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (63%); HISTORY (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Suburbs

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



531 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Take a Train, Help Save the Planet

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Commuting Conundrum'' (March 18):
Having ridden Metro-North regularly for about 20 years, I can attest to the reliability and convenience of this mode of transportation. The statistics you provide show that despite the usual complaints when a railroad experiences problems during a snowstorm or other natural occurrence, commuter railroads are the most reliable mode of transportation for traveling to and from Manhattan. 
 Our country's Achilles' heel is that we are addicted to oil to fuel our automobiles, and thus can be held hostage by the dictators and undemocratic foreign regimes that supply that oil. During crises like a significant increase in the price of oil, our political leaders pay lip service to becoming energy independent and finding alternative energy sources. 
 Those politicians would better serve us by rewarding those who choose to use public transportation. They should increase the subsidies and dedicate significant resources to update, expand and support economical, reliable and environmentally friendly methods of transportation. 
 The more we as a society become committed to public transportation, the stronger we will become. Dean R. Brown Briarcliff ManorTo the Editor:
 You quote Jeffrey M. Zupan, a senior fellow for transportation at the Regional Plan Association, as saying, ''Tolls and fares should go up in tandem.'' 
 As a retired transportation planner, I would suggest that only peak-period tolls into Manhattan be increased, to a price sufficient to discourage riders from switching from commuter rail to driving into Manhattan. 
 At the same time, while Manhattan-bound tolls are increased, those on the peripheral crossings (the Throgs Neck and Whitestone Bridges) must be lowered. Drivers to destinations outside of Manhattan should be encouraged to circumvent the borough, rather than drive through it. It is inequitable to charge drivers on these routes the same toll as Manhattan-bound vehicles. 
 It is even more unfair to continue to charge weekend and off-peak users of these peripheral crossings the same tolls as peak-period users.David D. Ruby Bronxville

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (68%) Railroads; Commuting

PERSON: Dean R Brown; David D Ruby

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



532 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: For Europe, A Moment To Ponder

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Roger Cohen writes the Globalist column for The International Herald Tribune.

DATELINE: SEVILLE, Spain 

 BODY:
IT is not easy to think of Spain as Poland. Stroll around this southern city at dusk, beneath the palms, beside the handsome bridges on the Guadalquivir River, past the chic boutiques and the Haagen-Dazs outlet, the Gothic cathedral and the Moorish palace, and it is scarcely Warsaw that comes to mind.
 But, insisted Adam Michnik, the Polish writer, ''Poland is the new Spain, absolutely.'' He continued: ''Spain was a poor country when it joined the European Union 21 years ago. It no longer is. We will see the same results in Poland.''
 If history is prologue, Mr. Michnik is likely to be right. The European Union, which celebrates the 50th anniversary of its founding treaty this weekend, is more often associated with Brussels bureaucrats setting the maximum curvature of cucumbers than with transformational power. But step by step, stipulation by stipulation, Europe has been remade. 
 What began in limited fashion in 1957 as a drive to remove tariff barriers and promote commercial exchange has ended by banishing war from Europe, enriching it beyond measure, and producing what Mr. Michnik called ''the first revolution that has been absolutely positive.''
 Asia, still beset by nationalisms and open World War II wounds, can only envy Europe's conjuring away agonizing history, a process that involved a voluntary dilution of national sovereignty unthinkable in the United States.
 This achievement will be symbolized as leaders from the 27 member states gather in Berlin -- the city that stood at the crux of violent 20th-century European division. They will sign a ''Berlin Declaration'' celebrating the peace, freedom, wealth and democracy that the Treaty of Rome has now helped spread among almost half a billion Europeans.
 But it is a celebration in uncertainty. A bigger union, expanded to include the ex-Communist states of Central Europe, has proved largely ungovernable. A constitution designed to streamline its governance was rejected in 2005. Integration has been a European triumph, but not always of those who are part of large-scale Muslim immigration. ''The E.U. is on autopilot, in stalemate, in deep crisis,'' said Joschka Fischer, the former German foreign minister who seven years ago called for a European federation run by a true European government. The founding treaty, signed by the six founding members on March 25, 1957, rested on creative ambiguity. It called for an ''ever closer union among the European peoples''; behind it lay dreams of a United States of Europe. The bold politics nestled inside basic economics -- a common market -- and was thus rendered unthreatening. A common currency, the euro, emerged in 2002.
 Still, the ambiguity persisted; it has proved divisive. Economic power has been built more effectively than political or strategic unity. Military power has lagged. Recent disputes -- from Iraq to current American plans to install missile defenses in Poland and the Czech Republic -- have shown how hard it is for Europe to speak with one voice or, as Fischer put it, ''define what strategic interests it has in common.''
 Nonetheless, ''autopilot'' in the union still amounts to a lot.
 It will ensure, for example, that over $100 billion is sent to Poland from now to 2013 to upgrade its infrastructure and agriculture, a sum that dwarfs American aid. Similarly, more than $190 billion has been devoted to Spain since it joined the union in 1986, 11 years after the end of Franco's dictatorship.
 The result has been Spain's extraordinary transition from a country whose per capita output was 71 percent of the European average in 1985, 90 percent in 2004, and now 100.7 percent of the median of the 27 members. Spain has moved into the club of the well off. Dictatorship seems utterly remote. 
 Poland under the Kaczynski brothers is far from overcoming the painful legacy of Communist tyranny, but by 2025 -- its own 21-year membership anniversary -- safe to say that healing will be advanced.
 ''The E.U. slashes political risk,'' said Chris Huhne, a Liberal Democrat member of the British Parliament. ''It also exercises a soft power on its periphery that has far more transformational impact than the American neocon agenda in the Middle East. Countries in the Balkans wanting to come into the European democratic family have to adapt.''
 That adaptation is economic as well as political. The creation of something approximating an American single market has been powerful in ending cartels and monopolies, introducing competition, pushing privatization and generally promoting the market over heavily managed capitalism.
 Which is not to say, of course, that European capitalism is American capitalism. It is less fluid; it creates fewer jobs. It is also less harsh. 
 Indeed, defense of what is called the European social model, with universal health care and extensive unemployment benefits, has become a tenet of European identity. How far that identity, as opposed to national identities, exists today is a matter of dispute. Only 2 percent of European Union inhabitants of working age live in member states other than their own. 
 But a survey in the French daily Le Figaro showed that 71 percent of French people now feel some pride in a European identity. The Erasmus program has helped about 1.5 million young Europeans spend a year studying in European universities outside their own countries.
 The movie ''L'Auberge Espagnole,'' or ''The Spanish Inn,'' captured the Erasmus experience: jumbled cultures, linguistic and amorous discovery, and the births of new identities from this mingling. Countless Eurocouples have not been the least of the union's achievements.
 How this generation will deal with what is often called the question of Europe's final destination remains unclear. The union is open geographically: It could end at the Iranian and Iraqi borders if Turkey joins. It is also open politically: How much of a federation should Europe be?
 The union has been upended by Communism's unexpected demise. The European Economic Community, as formed in 1957, did not try to liberate the continent; it tried to ensure that half of it cohered in freedom. ''Europe was initially built on accepting -- with more or less equanimity -- to forget about half of it, including historic centers of European civilization like Prague or Budapest,'' said Jonathan Eyal, a British analyst. ''And the irony is that it is precisely the return of these centers that has thrown the E.U. into existential crisis today.'' 
 That crisis is partly procedural: It is not clear how you get things done in a Europe of 27. It is partly of identity: The rapidly cohering Europe with a Franco-German core is gone, and nobody quite knows what to put in its place. And it is partly political: The conception of Europe in post-Communist countries is simply different.
 These differences are apparent in recent tensions between Germany and Poland, whose reconciliation has been one of the European Union's conspicuous miracles.
 Germany has been utterly remade by an integrating Europe to the point that more people worry today about German pacifism than expansionism. But Poland is just entering that transformational process; under Lech Kaczynski's conservative presidency its wariness of the pooling of sovereignty inherent in the union has been clear.
 Poland today, said Karl Kaiser, a German political analyst, ''looks out and tends to see the old Germany and the old expansionist Russia; it has not taken part mentallyin the long process of integration.''
 So Warsaw sees Moscow-Berlin plots of sinister memory when Russia and Germany agree to build a gas pipeline directly between each other, under the Baltic Sea rather than over Poland.
 It pushes hard, but unsuccessfully, for references to Europe's Christian roots in the Berlin declaration. It contemplates, as does the Czech Republic, installing part of a new American missile defense system against Iran, and does so despite German unease, Russian fury and the absence of any European or NATO consensus.
 Of course, what Poles and Czechs see beyond Germany or Russia is the America that defeated the Soviet Union and freed them: Poles, as Mr. Michnik noted, ''tend to be more pro-American than Americans.''
 Whatever tempering of this sentiment Iraq has brought, Poland and the rest of Central and Eastern Europe remain more pro-American than the Europe of the Treaty of Rome. With Britain they now form a club within the club that sees Europe more as loose alignment than strategic union.
 ''For Britain, Europe is a convenience rather than a concept,'' said Karsten Voigt, a German Foreign Ministry official.
 This is an intractable division, and the Bush administration has accentuated the split with its ad hoc approach to European alliances. That stance was evident at the time of the Iraq invasion and again today over missile defenses. Coalitions of the willing tend to leave the unwilling bristling. 
 At a deeper level, Homo europeus, formed over 50 years, now lies at some distance from Homo americanus. Post-heroic Europeans tend to favor procedure, talk, international institutions and incremental measures to resolve issues, where Americans tend to favor resolve backed by force. 
 Peace is much more of an absolute value today in Europe than in the United States, as are opposition to the death penalty and commitment to reversing global warming. So what? The ties that bind the Atlantic family remain strong. But, unglued by the cold war's end, they are not as strong as they were. Europe sees the United States today more through the prism of Baghdad than Berlin. 
 Generations pass; memories fade; perceptions change. That is inevitable. The great achievement of the European Union has been to absorb those changes and zigzags within the broader push for unity.
 That push, that journey, is incomplete. But Europeans have learned, as Mr. Eyal said, that ''traveling can be just as good as arriving.'' Perpetual difficulty has been the union's perpetual stimulus. A United States of Europe remains a distant, probably unreachable dream. At the same time, continent-wide war has become an unthinkable nightmare.
 ''The E.U. is an unfinished project, but so what?'' Mr. Voigt said. ''Why be nervous? We have time.''
 Time enough even, the 50-year history of the union suggests, for Turkey to become the new Poland.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Divisions -- A protest in Prague this month over a United States missile defense plan for the Czech Republic. (Photo by Michal Cizek/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (67%); REFERENDUMS (66%); POLITICS (62%); IMMIGRATION (60%); CURRENCIES (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%) Politics and Government; Constitutions; Elections; Referendums

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: Roger Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (66%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%) ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%) EUROPE (98%); POLAND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); BELGIUM (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Europe; European Union; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



533 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for Freedom, Messing It Up

BYLINE: By Adam Michnik. 
Adam Michnik, the editor in chief of the Polish daily Gazeta Wyborcza and author of ''Letters From Freedom,'' is a visiting professor at Princeton. This article was translated by Irena Grudzinska Gross from the Polish.

DATELINE: Princeton, N.J. 

 BODY:
FOR many years, the term Central Europe was missing from the American vocabulary. A simple expression was used instead: the Soviet Bloc. 
 The accession to the European Union of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Baltic states, and lately Bulgaria and Romania brings change not only in the symbolic dimension of language, but also in the geopolitical and spiritual dimensions. We traded in the Soviet Bloc for the European Union, the idea of which first took juridical form 50 years ago today.
The Polish story about Europe is quite different from the French or German, Spanish or Portuguese stories. In September 1939, our country became a victim of double aggression: by Hitler's Third Reich on the first of that month, by Stalin's Soviet Union on the 17th. 
 One evening in January 1940, the inhabitants of occupied Poland could hear a speech by Winston Churchill on their illegal radios. ''In the bitter and increasingly exacting conflict which lies before us,'' Churchill said, ''we are resolved to keep nothing back, and not to be outstripped by any in service to the common cause. Let the great cities of Warsaw, of Prague, of Vienna banish despair even in the midst of their agony. Their liberation is sure. The day will come when the joy-bells will ring again throughout Europe, and when victorious nations, masters not only of their foes but of themselves, will plan and build in justice, in tradition and in freedom a house of many mansions where there will be room for all.''
 For those of us who, during our years of democratic opposition to Communist rule, passed through the trial of underground activity and prisons, this joyous day arrived four years ago, when, in a national referendum, Poles decided by a decisive majority to join the European Union. A dream kept alive for years became a reality.
 What was the content of this dream? Democracy instead of dictatorship, pluralism instead of monopoly, law instead of lawlessness, freedom of the press instead of censorship, diversity instead of conformity, open borders instead of barbed wire, tolerance instead of a reigning ideology, creativity instead of blind obedience, the possibility of welfare and development instead of poverty and backwardness. Finally and most important, we dreamed of a human right to dignity, an end to the subjection of every person as property of the state.
 During the Polish accession referendum of four years ago, this dream turned out to be most convincing to Poles. But now that the dream is within grasp, Poland and other Eastern European countries have begun to turn their backs on it. Of the three parties in the coalition government that came into power in Poland's national elections a year and a half ago, the leading one, the Law and Justice Party, was internally divided in the matter of Polish accession to the European Union. The two others were openly skeptical. The record of these parties' successes in office is pitifully sparse, and one feels ashamed to talk about the particulars. 
 Rather than seize on its European Union membership to catapult the country forward, Poland's coalition government finds itself looking, and moving, backward. In a speech in the European Parliament, a politician from one of the coalition parties praised the dictatorships of Antonio Salazar of Portugal and Francisco Franco of Spain; he also published an openly anti-Semitic booklet. During a dry summer, a group of coalition legislators called upon the Parliament to pray for rain. A similar group proposed that the Parliament vote to declare Jesus Christ the King of Poland. Polish bishops sternly criticized this peculiar act of devotion. 
 The latest idea of the Polish governing coalition is ''lustration,'' which means looking for and eventually barring from public life all people found to have been secret collaborators with the security services between 1944 and 1990. The search will last as long as 17 years and will affect approximately 700,000 people, including jurists, bank managers, members of boards, civil servants, researchers and journalists. Everyone has to declare whether he used to be a collaborator. If someone refuses to make such a declaration or makes an untruthful one, he is barred from working in his field for 10 years.
 The lustration law has been met with a wave of criticism and is about to be challenged in the Constitutional Tribunal. Many people have declared that they will not submit to the humiliating procedure, which reminds them of the loyalty oaths required by the Communist authorities during the martial law of 1980s. I have always considered it absurd to judge anyone solely on the basis of the police reports and denunciations -- to believe that, in a country in which everything was a lie, the security services were the only institution guided by an evangelical respect for the truth. And I was not surprised that many of those identified as collaborators were exonerated later by independent courts. 
 The governing coalition employs a peculiar mix of the conservative rhetoric of George W. Bush and the political practice of Vladimir Putin. Attacks on the independent news media, curtailment of civil society, centralization of power and exaggeration of external and internal dangers make the political styles of today's leaders of Poland and Russia very similar. Meanwhile, in Polish foreign policy, relations with Russia and Germany are marked by a preoccupation with events of the Second World War, including the Auschwitz concentration camp and the Soviet massacre of Polish officers in the Katyn forest. These obsessions lead to the isolation of Poland and a reawakening of the demons of European history. 
 I am writing about Poland, but what I say applies as well to many countries of post-Yalta Europe. Everywhere, the phenomenon of populism has appeared. Slovakia is ruled by an ethnic populist coalition every bit as exotic as the Polish government, including a party that proposed expelling the Hungarian minority. 
 In Hungary, the prime minister admitted that in order to respond to demands the government could not fulfill, ''We lied day and night.'' The right-wing populist opposition replied, ''Traitor, Communist pig!'' 
 In Lithuania, the former president, impeached for corruption, has made himself increasingly popular with an abundance of empty promises in his campaign for mayor of Vilnius. The president of the Czech Republic has made declaration after declaration against the European Union. 
 Populism can assume the shape of nostalgic post-Communism or anti-Communism with a Bolshevik face; it can also combine both of these tendencies. Its common core is the fear of change and escape from freedom. The losers of the transition away from Communism are taking revenge on its victors. It is possible that the deafness of those who led the transition to the dramas of the losers prepared the way for the electoral success of populists. But after the elections, the populists are finding it difficult to fulfill the expectations of those who believe that they will have manna from heaven. 
 EVEN as these things occur, the concrete results of the Polish accession to the European Union have been almost entirely positive. The union's money has energized the Polish economy and developed its infrastructure -- in a word, modernized Poland. For Poles, the other countries of the union stand open: they find work there, study there, learn about the world. The union is a magnificent adventure for Poles. All public opinion surveys indicate steady support for the union and diminishing support for the governing coalition. 
 For its new countries, the European Union is not only a provider of material resources, but also a model for democratic traditions and a political culture founded on pluralism and tolerance. Its canon of values -- stemming from the traditions of Christianity and the Enlightenment, of democratic and anti-totalitarian thought -- is well known. It is up to the new European Union members to make good on those values, and to bring to the union the best of their own.
 For Europe is itself a work in progress, and Poland and the other newly accepted countries have much to contribute to its development, should they choose to do so. Among the new issues to which the union seeks answers are the place of Christianity in public life and the limits of multiculturalism in regard to the presence of Islam. So, too, is Europe's foreign policy in flux, particularly regarding its relations with the United States and Russia. 
 For a Pole, it is evident that a strong Euro-Atlantic alliance brings hope for free nations. That is why Poland should help overcome the anti-American phobias in Europe, in the union's interest and its own. The foreign policy of the European Union -- especially toward Russia and other post-Soviet states -- can be enriched by the Polish experience, but only if the Polish government is itself willing to use this experience. Will it want to? I am not sure. 
 Nonetheless, even with bad leadership, Poland remains democratic and sovereign. The times of dictatorship taught Poles that they need to defend their freedom, and this is what they know how to do. They will prove it in the next election. And the European Union will remain the ally of that freedom.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by The Heads of State) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); MONOPOLIZATION (68%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (68%); POLITICS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); REFERENDUMS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); CENSORSHIP (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

PERSON: Adam Michnik

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); POLAND (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); BULGARIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (73%) Europe; Poland; European Union; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



534 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; CIVIL RIGHTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Pushing the Fight Against Racial Segregation

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SYOSSET 

 BODY:
GROWING up in an African-American neighborhood in Port Washington, V. Elaine Gross had a childhood that was ''pretty segregated,'' she said, revolving around a small cluster of streets and the local church.
 In elementary school, one incident in particular made clear to Ms. Gross, now 56, that ''the color of my skin made a difference.''
After a white classmate came to her house to play, Ms. Gross walked her back to her own home close to the Sands Point School, now the John J. Daly School. 
 ''Her mother saw me coming up the walkway and just was screaming, screaming at her daughter, screaming at me: 'What are you doing with her? You get away from here,' '' Ms. Gross recalled. ''It was very traumatic at the time.''
 The girls' paths never crossed much after that. But Ms. Gross, who trained as a social worker, dedicated her professional career to exploring the causes of social, political and economic inequities and finding ways to thwart discrimination in daily living. 
 As the founder and president of Erase Racism, a nonprofit research and advocacy group here, Ms. Gross has been trying to get Long Island off the nation's list of most segregated suburbs. According to a report the organization produced using 2000 census data, she said, it hovers around No. 3. 
 ''The Island was developed to be segregated,'' Ms. Gross said, noting that in Levittown, the nation's first post-World War II suburb, racially restrictive covenants initially prevented African-Americans from buying or renting homes. In 1948 the Supreme Court determined that such discrimination was illegal. Exclusionary practices had preceded Levittown, however; in 1927 Gordon Heights in Suffolk County was one of the first housing developments in the country marketed solely to African-Americans. 
 New fair-housing laws that took effect in January in Nassau and Suffolk Counties were spurred by a 2005 report by Erase Racism, ''Long Island Fair Housing: A State of Inequity.'' It stated that the ''fair-housing enforcement system is inefficient and lethargic'' and that little had been done to discourage housing discrimination like the steering of African-Americans and members of other ethnic minorities to low-income communities. The study found that 84 percent of whites on the Island lived in nonintegrated communities, regardless of income, while nonwhites were concentrated in other neighborhoods. 
 Ms. Gross, who lives with her husband, Jess, a computer programmer, in an area of Huntington she calls ''a little integrated but not a lot,'' said some real estate agents illegally perpetuate segregation by shepherding African-Americans into largely black communities. 
 In Nassau, the new law imposes fines of up to $50,000 on real estate agents, mortgage companies or management companies if the county's Human Rights Commission finds they have discriminated against prospective home buyers or renters on the basis of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation or disability. Previously, buyers or renters who believed that they had been discriminated against had to pursue complaints through the State Division of Human Rights. 
 ''The enforcement systems were so fragmented and so dysfunctional that it seemed like it made more sense to look at the counties,'' Ms. Gross said. 
 When Ms. Gross started Erase Racism in 2001 after being approached by the Long Island Community Foundation, a philanthropy that finances social-service organizations, people told her that Long Islanders would not ''want to deal with any organization that has racism in their name,'' she recalled. 
 ''It was kind of a taboo subject,'' said Ms. Gross, who had worked in tenant advocacy and community development in Boston. ''I am really proud that as a result of our work it's not such a taboo subject and we have policy leaders who will talk about racial segregation, and who will take seriously the need to implement policies that address that.''
 Ms. Gross, who is a member of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, said that if the full Island housing market were equally desirable, it would bring prices down. 
 ''There is a premium on housing in certain communities because not everybody has access to housing in all communities,'' she said. Neither amenities nor resources are evenly spread across the Island, she added. 
 ''We are really shooting ourselves in the foot by not dealing with this, by not thinking about the region as a region,'' she added. 
 Erase Racism, whose full name is Education Research Advocacy Support to Eliminate Racism, is now taking a hard look at the Island's 127 school districts. 
 ''We have segregated schools here on Long Island that are very unequal,'' Ms. Gross said, referring both to entire districts and to segregation within individual districts. ''It is a combination of both the way we fund the schools and the way the district lines are drawn.''
 ''People gain access to schools based on where they live,'' she added, ''and where they live is segregated because we haven't had enforcement of fair housing.''
 She said Erase Racism hoped to release a report on local education by the fall that has recommendations, not just bad news. 
 ''The hard part is always figuring out what path to take,'' said Ms. Gross, who has a full-time staff of three and a number of part-time employees and consultants. ''We really want to make some changes.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: CRUSADER -- V. Elaine Gross, the founder of the Syosset-based group Erase Racism. (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); FAIR LENDING (87%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); CENSUS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (63%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (50%) Blacks; Discrimination; Suburbs

ORGANIZATION: Erase Racism (Orgn)

PERSON: V Elaine Gross; Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



535 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: New Identities Spring From Former Retail Stores

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE small-city department store has had a tough few decades.
 Once a one-stop shop for overcoats and makeup, with a smiling operator in the elevator, the stores began struggling to compete against suburban malls in the 1970s and then against big-box retailers in the 1990s.
As a result, many of those department stores have closed despite having been longtime fixtures of their streetscapes. 
 Now, though, as many communities try to rejuvenate their downtowns, investing in areas they had once written off, the former department stores and the land they sat on have become hot real estate.
 About a dozen sites across the suburbs of New York City -- including in Garden City on Long Island; Yonkers; New Haven; and Morristown and Montclair in New Jersey -- are prime pieces of large-scale redevelopment plans. Some are slated for conversions, to house new types of tenants or, more likely, to be torn down.
 That these properties are in high demand does not surprise Alexander D. Garvin, an architect, urban planner and former New York City Planning Commission member who has written about national redevelopment trends.
 ''There's this strong desire among everybody to be downtown, to have an urban lifestyle, whatever that means,'' he said. ''It's happening in Nebraska and Tennessee, but in our area, because the city of New York is growing so rapidly, the impact on the surrounding counties is really dramatic.''
 In Nassau County, Winthrop-University Hospital, in Mineola, is taking over a former Saks Fifth Avenue building in next-door Garden City to better tap a densely populated area where many of its patients live. 
 Weight machines for injury rehabilitation and two 75-foot-long swimming pools will occupy about 70,000 square feet, or about half the space of the 45-year-old Saks building, whose thick floors are well suited for heavy medical equipment, said Alfred Weissman, its Yonkers-based developer. The center is set to open in late summer, he said. 
 Part of the building -- at 1300 Franklin Avenue, between 13th and 14th Streets -- is being altered to create sidewalk-level retail berths, although its core, with a distinctive flat roof and white bricks, towers above the additions.
 In its mid-20th-century heyday, Franklin Avenue was considered Long Island's most prestigious and popular shopping destination, residents and historians said, boasting department stores like Bloomingdale's, Peck & Peck, and Oppenheim, Collins & Company.
 Though their buildings still loom, few of Garden City's department stores remain, with places like Bloomingdale's having long ago decamped for the Roosevelt Field mall. Still, tenants are hopeful that a new clustering effect could occur. 
 ''This store is easy to get into, it's easy to park at, and the infrastructure is good,'' said Daniel P. Walsh, Winthrop's president and chief executive. ''With a little imagination, it can be converted into something useful for the community.''
 Yet when the historic value of a building is questionable, like the former Genung's in Yonkers, it may not avoid the wrecking ball, especially if it stands in the way of sweeping redevelopment.
 The 40,000-square-foot store at 7 Main Street, whose facade features wide windows and three flag poles, was built in 1928. Genung's closed in the mid-1970s, said Joan Jennings, the assistant executive director of the Yonkers downtown business improvement district, and then was Yonkers's library until 2003. 
 In September, the city will break ground on the first phase of a 450-acre redevelopment that calls for apartments, stores, parks and a minor league baseball stadium. The redevelopment will also uncover a downtown stretch of the Saw Mill River, which was tunneled over long ago. Genung's will eventually be razed to make way for a new building, said David Simpson, a Yonkers spokesman.
 Joseph V. Apicella, the executive project manager and a Yonkers native, said he had fond memories of shopping for Christmas presents at Genung's in the 1960s.
 ''It seemed to me that the personalized service, you couldn't beat it,'' said Mr. Apicella, who added that he hoped Yonkers's future stores could recreate that spirit.
 Similarly, the development potential of an empty lot in a booming real-estate market, coupled with a sharp downturn in business, spelled the end of Epstein's, a department store that opened in Morristown, N.J., in 1910. Today, the site, which faces a park on South Street, is largely piles of pinkish rubble.
 Ultimately, though, this missing-tooth gap in the streetscape will feature luxury condominiums, apartments, offices, a parking garage and 70,000 square feet of stores, said Stephen A. Santola, the executive vice president of Woodmont Properties, based in Parsippany, and part of the development team.
 Michael Levine, a developer of the project and a descendant of the store's founder, said: ''A lot of people were sad to lose their local store. But the more important thing is to create in-town residential living, for the long-term stability of the town.'' 
 The transition from department store to mixed-use development is not always smooth. 
 In New Haven, city leaders have unveiled a $150 million plan for apartments, condos, stores, a day care center and a parking garage in a tower slated for the former home of Shartenberg's, a colonnaded department store known for its holiday gift grab bag. 
 Although the acre-and-a-half site, which is bounded on one edge by Chapel Street, a ragtag former shopping district, has been a parking lot since 1966, the idea of building something new there can still stir passion. One concern is that the proposed tower will be too tall, although Bruce R. Becker, the president of the development firm, Becker and Becker Associates, of Fairfield, Conn., says the design is still a work in progress. 
 Anstress Farwell, the president of the Urban Design League, which has worked to make the downtown friendlier to pedestrians and is opposed to the Becker plan as it stands, said the project did not address a more fundamental issue: local residents do not have a lot of places to shop. Despite a recent influx of restaurants and high-end boutiques, there are few places to buy affordable pairs of shoes, she said, the kind that in an earlier era were sold by department stores.
 ''Even people with money like a bargain, and everybody likes basic goods,'' Ms. Farwell said. ''Those anchor tenants are necessary to make a downtown really work.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALTERED STATES -- Above, in Morristown, N.J., the former Epstein's, which will yield to a multiuse development. In Garden City, N.Y., Alfred Weissman, developer of the old Saks Fifth Avenue, which is becoming a health center. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (63%); HISTORY (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Suburbs

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



536 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: New Identities Spring From Former Retail Stores

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE small-city department store has had a tough few decades.
 Once a one-stop shop for overcoats and makeup, with a smiling operator in the elevator, the stores began struggling to compete against suburban malls in the 1970s and then against big-box retailers in the 1990s.
As a result, many of those department stores have closed despite having been longtime fixtures of their streetscapes. 
 Now, though, as many communities try to rejuvenate their downtowns, investing in areas they had once written off, the former department stores and the land they sat on have become hot real estate.
 About a dozen sites across the suburbs of New York City -- including in Garden City on Long Island; Yonkers; New Haven; and Morristown and Montclair in New Jersey -- are prime pieces of large-scale redevelopment plans. Some are slated for conversions, to house new types of tenants or, more likely, to be torn down.
 That these properties are in high demand does not surprise Alexander D. Garvin, an architect, urban planner and former New York City Planning Commission member who has written about national redevelopment trends.
 ''There's this strong desire among everybody to be downtown, to have an urban lifestyle, whatever that means,'' he said. ''It's happening in Nebraska and Tennessee, but in our area, because the city of New York is growing so rapidly, the impact on the surrounding counties is really dramatic.''
 In Nassau County, Winthrop-University Hospital, in Mineola, is taking over a former Saks Fifth Avenue building in next-door Garden City to better tap a densely populated area where many of its patients live. 
 Weight machines for injury rehabilitation and two 75-foot-long swimming pools will occupy about 70,000 square feet, or about half the space of the 45-year-old Saks building, whose thick floors are well suited for heavy medical equipment, said Alfred Weissman, its Yonkers-based developer. The center is set to open in late summer, he said. 
 Part of the building -- at 1300 Franklin Avenue, between 13th and 14th Streets -- is being altered to create sidewalk-level retail berths, although its core, with a distinctive flat roof and white bricks, towers above the additions.
 In its mid-20th-century heyday, Franklin Avenue was considered Long Island's most prestigious and popular shopping destination, residents and historians said, boasting department stores like Bloomingdale's, Peck & Peck, and Oppenheim, Collins & Company.
 Though their buildings still loom, few of Garden City's department stores remain, with places like Bloomingdale's having long ago decamped for the Roosevelt Field mall. Still, tenants are hopeful that a new clustering effect could occur. 
 ''This store is easy to get into, it's easy to park at, and the infrastructure is good,'' said Daniel P. Walsh, Winthrop's president and chief executive. ''With a little imagination, it can be converted into something useful for the community.''
 Yet when the historic value of a building is questionable, like the former Genung's in Yonkers, it may not avoid the wrecking ball, especially if it stands in the way of sweeping redevelopment.
 The 40,000-square-foot store at 7 Main Street, whose facade features wide windows and three flag poles, was built in 1928. Genung's closed in the mid-1970s, said Joan Jennings, the assistant executive director of the Yonkers downtown business improvement district, and then was Yonkers's library until 2003. 
 In September, the city will break ground on the first phase of a 450-acre redevelopment that calls for apartments, stores, parks and a minor league baseball stadium. The redevelopment will also uncover a downtown stretch of the Saw Mill River, which was tunneled over long ago. Genung's will eventually be razed to make way for a new building, said David Simpson, a Yonkers spokesman.
 Joseph V. Apicella, the executive project manager and a Yonkers native, said he had fond memories of shopping for Christmas presents at Genung's in the 1960s.
 ''It seemed to me that the personalized service, you couldn't beat it,'' said Mr. Apicella, who added that he hoped Yonkers's future stores could recreate that spirit.
 Similarly, the development potential of an empty lot in a booming real-estate market, coupled with a sharp downturn in business, spelled the end of Epstein's, a department store that opened in Morristown, N.J., in 1910. Today, the site, which faces a park on South Street, is largely piles of pinkish rubble.
 Ultimately, though, this missing-tooth gap in the streetscape will feature luxury condominiums, apartments, offices, a parking garage and 70,000 square feet of stores, said Stephen A. Santola, the executive vice president of Woodmont Properties, based in Parsippany, and part of the development team.
 Michael Levine, a developer of the project and a descendant of the store's founder, said: ''A lot of people were sad to lose their local store. But the more important thing is to create in-town residential living, for the long-term stability of the town.'' 
 The transition from department store to mixed-use development is not always smooth. 
 In New Haven, city leaders have unveiled a $150 million plan for apartments, condos, stores, a day care center and a parking garage in a tower slated for the former home of Shartenberg's, a colonnaded department store known for its holiday gift grab bag. 
 Although the acre-and-a-half site, which is bounded on one edge by Chapel Street, a ragtag former shopping district, has been a parking lot since 1966, the idea of building something new there can still stir passion. One concern is that the proposed tower will be too tall, although Bruce R. Becker, the president of the development firm, Becker and Becker Associates, of Fairfield, Conn., says the design is still a work in progress. 
 Anstress Farwell, the president of the Urban Design League, which has worked to make the downtown friendlier to pedestrians and is opposed to the Becker plan as it stands, said the project did not address a more fundamental issue: local residents do not have a lot of places to shop. Despite a recent influx of restaurants and high-end boutiques, there are few places to buy affordable pairs of shoes, she said, the kind that in an earlier era were sold by department stores.
 ''Even people with money like a bargain, and everybody likes basic goods,'' Ms. Farwell said. ''Those anchor tenants are necessary to make a downtown really work.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALTERED STATES -- Above, in Morristown, N.J., the former Epstein's, which will yield to a multiuse development. In Garden City, N.Y., Alfred Weissman, developer of the old Saks Fifth Avenue, which is becoming a health center. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (63%); HISTORY (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Suburbs

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



537 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Kill Super 7 Completion Proposal

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
For now, the highway known as old Route 7 will remain the main road between Norwalk and Danbury.
 A proposal to resuscitate the long-dormant plan to extend the Super 7 connector between the two cities died in the legislature's Transportation Committee last Monday.
Robert B. Duff, the state senator representing Darien and Norwalk who proposed the bill to complete the Super 7 project, said it was needed for Norwalk's long-term economic growth. 
 ''At the base of the Super 7 connector, we have two and a half million square feet of office space that we have to fill, and in the future, the labor pool is going to come from the Danbury area,'' he said.
 Kevin Nursick, a spokesman for the State Department of Transportation, said the state owned 60 percent of the land needed to complete the Super 7 project, according to the last plan made about 20 years ago. He said the cost to complete the whole project would probably exceed $1 billion.
 The first selectman of Wilton, William F. Brennan, said he was pleased that the proposal did not make it out of the Transportation Committee.
 ''It totally ignored the state's decision to widen the old Route 7 and improve the Metro-North Danbury line instead,'' he said.
 Mr. Duff said he would continue to try to get the bill passed.
 ''I'd like to see a limited-access highway that looks like the Merritt Parkway,'' he said. ''It doesn't have to look like I-95.''
 The Super 7 was supposed to go from Norwalk to Danbury when it was conceived in 1957, according to the Transportation Department. But opposition from towns between the two cities has left it unfinished since 1993. It is now the Super 7 Connector, which runs north from Interstate 95 and ends at Grist Mill Road in Norwalk. For a Seventh Straight Year, A Bill to Ban Alcohol in Cars 
 Drinking while driving is illegal everywhere, but in Connecticut, it is all right for passengers to have open alcoholic beverages. Now, some state lawmakers want to end that.
 A bill prohibiting open alcohol in moving cars and trucks passed the legislature's Transportation Committee on March 14 by a 32-to-2 vote. It now heads to the Judiciary Committee.
 One of the bill's sponsors, William H. Nickerson, a state senator from Greenwich, said Connecticut was one of 13 states without such a law.
 ''You and I would not want to drive down the highway and see a car on the other side coming at us with a group of passengers holding open bottles of alcohol,'' he said.
 Adam Liegeot, a spokesman for Gov. M. Jodi Rell, said she supported the bill. Mr. Nickerson said many law enforcement organizations in the state were also strongly in favor of it.
 ''It would deter people from passing alcohol around in a motor vehicle and drinking while driving,'' said Harry W. Rilling, Norwalk's chief of police and the president of the Connecticut Police Chiefs Association.
 State Senator Donald J. DeFronzo of New Britain, the co-chairman of the Transportation Committee, said that because the state did not have such a law, it has been required to spend $5.1 million in federal highway funds every year on enforcing drunken-driving laws. If the bill passes, he said, that money will go to road improvements instead.
 ''The shifting of the enforcement money is a downside to the bill,'' Mr. DeFronzo said. ''But most of the advocates are trying to also secure more federal and state funds for enforcement activities.''
 This was the seventh straight year that a bill banning open alcohol in motor vehicles had been introduced, Mr. Liegeot said. He said none of the previous bills had reached the governor's desk
 Mr. Nickerson said there was a provision in the bill for open bottles that are being transported and are out of the driver's reach.Fairfield's Blake Returning To New Haven Tennis Event
 James Blake, who grew up in Fairfield and is the eighth-ranked singles player in men's professional tennis, announced Tuesday that he would play in the Pilot Pen Tennis tournament in New Haven this summer for the third straight year.
 Blake, 27, was the first ATP player to commit to this year's tournament. 
 ''I get to play in front of my home fans, have a great time and stay at my house,'' he said. ''You don't get that opportunity too often, so it's a real joy for me.''
 Blake rose through the ranks to win the Pilot Pen in 2005, defeating Feliciano Lopez of Spain in the final. Last year, he was upset in the second round by Ruben Ramirez Hidalgo of Spain.
 This year's tournament will be played at the Connecticut Tennis Center at Yale from Aug. 17 to 25. Blake said the Pilot Pen was good preparation for the United States Open, which starts the following week.
 ''The surface is exactly the same,'' he said. ''So if you play well, you can go into the U.S. Open with a lot of confidence.''
 Ann Worcester, the Pilot Pen tournament director, said Blake had accounted for tens of thousands of extra tickets being sold.
 ''We're extremely proud of the success he's had after he won here in 2005,'' Ms. Worcester said. ''He's since become even more of a household name around the world.''
 Blake was born in Yonkers, grew up in Fairfield and graduated from what is now Fairfield Warde High School. He has homes in Fairfield and Tampa, Fla. 
 Nikolay Davydenko of Russia, currently the ATP's fourth-ranked player, won the men's championship at the Pilot Pen last year, and Justine Henin of Belgium, currently the top-ranked player on the women's tour, was the women's champion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: BACK -- The tennis star James Blake. (Photo by Elise Amendola/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); TENNIS (63%); SPORTS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%) Roads and Traffic; Law and Legislation; Alcoholic Beverages; Trucks and Trucking; Tennis; Pilot Pen Tennis Tournament; Roads and Traffic

PERSON: M JODI RELL (57%) James Blake; Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Norwalk (Conn); Danbury (Conn); New Haven (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



538 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Justices to Hear Case on Wages Of Home Aides

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Evelyn Coke sat in her wood-frame home in Corona, Queens, a hobbled figure, not realizing that this is supposed to be her moment in the spotlight.
 For 20 years, she had cared for clients in their homes, bathing them, cooking for them, helping them dress and take their medications. But now, suffering from kidney failure, she is too ill to work.
Her mind and memory are not what they once were, she acknowledges, and as a result she is hazy about the important events that will take place on April 16. On that day, the Supreme Court of the United States is scheduled to hear oral arguments in a case in which Ms. Coke, a 73-year-old immigrant from Jamaica, is the sole plaintiff. 
 She is challenging Labor Department regulations that say home care attendants, who number 1.4 million, are not covered by federal minimum-wage and overtime laws. 
 ''I loved my work, but the money was not good at all,'' Ms. Coke said in a whispering voice, noting that she often worked three or four 24-hour days a week, sleeping at a client's home, while hardly ever receiving time-and-a-half pay for overtime. 
 The stakes in her case are considerable, not least because home care attendant is one of the nation's fastest growing occupations. There are expected to be nearly two million aides by 2014, as the elderly population grows and government pushes for the elderly to be cared for at home rather than in nursing homes, where costs are high.
 Ms. Coke's lawsuit has attracted powerful supporters and opponents.
 The nation's largest health care union, the Service Employees International Union, is backing Ms. Coke's effort because a victory for her could mean larger paychecks for hundreds of thousands of home care aides, many of whom live in poverty. 
 AARP plans to file a brief backing Ms. Coke, arguing that the increased pay that would result from requiring overtime coverage would reduce turnover among home care aides and help prevent a shortage. 
 The federal government and the Bloomberg administration have lined up against her, arguing that a victory for Ms. Coke could greatly increase Medicare and Medicaid costs, perhaps causing a budget shortfall that could leave many of the elderly without home-care aides. 
 In a friend-of-the-court brief, the Bloomberg administration, joined by the New York State Association of Counties, argued, ''In the worst cases, some clients, especially those with high hour needs, might no longer be able to be serviced in their homes and might have to be institutionalized.''
 The Bloomberg administration said a victory for Ms. Coke could force the city, state and federal governments, which all finance home care through Medicaid, to pay $250 million more a year to the 60,000 home attendants who work in the city.
 Some advocacy groups have criticized the city's position, saying it conflicts with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's push to reduce poverty because keeping these aides exempt from overtime coverage would hold down their pay. 
 The defendant in Ms. Coke's case is Long Island Care at Home, which is based in Westbury and employs 50 aides. 
 MaryAnn Osborne, Long Island Care's vice president, said that a defeat in court could put her agency out of business because, with many aides working 60 or 70 hours a week, it might face huge overtime costs. Her agency pays aides $8 to $11 an hour, but a defeat in the Supreme Court would require the agency to pay time and a half, meaning $12 to $16.50 an hour, for overtime. 
 ''This would be horrendous for the entire industry because the reimbursement rate we get won't cover that type of money,'' she said. 
 But supporters of Ms. Coke's lawsuit say that if she wins, the government would most likely increase reimbursement rates to compensate for the overtime costs. 
 Ms. Coke said that Long Island Care made a lot of money off her, saying she earned just $7 an hour when she last worked there in 2001. 
 Moreover, she said, she did not get paid overtime for her 24-hour stints at homes in Great Neck, Roslyn, Manhasset and other communities. 
 She said she stopped working because she was hit by a car, injuring her shoulder, and she later had colon and kidney problems. ''The job didn't even give us health insurance,'' said Ms. Coke, who goes to a dialysis clinic three times a week.
 The Supreme Court agreed to hear her case after the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned Labor Department regulations that exempted home care aides from federal minimum-wage and overtime coverage, saying the exemption conflicted with Congress's intent. 
 Before 1974, home care aides were generally covered by minimum-wage and overtime laws if they were employed by agencies. (Aides hired directly by families were not covered and will remain exempt from overtime regardless of the outcome of Ms. Coke's case.)
 In amending the Fair Labor Standards Act in 1974, Congress extended minimum-wage and overtime coverage to household workers like maids and cooks but said that baby sitters and ''companions'' for the elderly and infirm would be exempt. 
 When the Labor Department first proposed regulations to enforce the changes in the law, it said that home care workers employed by agencies should continue to get overtime. But the department reversed itself in 1975, saying Congress had not intended to allow those workers overtime when it created the exemptions the year before.
 But the Court of Appeals, sitting in Manhattan, wrote, ''It is implausible, to say the least, that Congress, in wishing to expand F.L.S.A. coverage, would have wanted the Department of Labor to eliminate coverage for employees of third-party employers who had previously been covered.''
 Those urging the Supreme Court to overturn that ruling say the Court of Appeals failed to show proper deference to the Labor Department's decision-making authority.
 Even with the exemption, few home care workers receive less than the federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour. But many do not receive any overtime premium even when they work more than 40 hours a week. (Under federal rules, workers who sleep in are generally paid for all extra hours on the job, less eight hours' sleep time.)
 Natasha Maye, a home care aide in Philadelphia who is part of a separate suit concerning the minimum wage, is rooting for Ms. Coke. She said that she earned, in effect, less than $5.15 an hour at her former agency because she was not paid for the two hours spent each day traveling between her three clients' homes. Including travel time, she said, she often put in 60 hours a week and earned $300. 
 ''I don't think that's fair,'' she said. ''We should be entitled to overtime and travel time.''
 The Clinton administration, in its next-to-last day in office in 2001, proposed regulations that would restore minimum-wage and overtime protections to home care aides employed by agencies, arguing that the 1975 exemption clashed with Congressional intent. But in 2002, the Bush administration scrapped that proposal, concluding the revised rules would have a severe economic impact on clients, government budgets and home care agencies. 
 In its brief, Long Island Care at Home argued that exempting aides who worked for agencies was consistent with Congressional intent because some lawmakers back in 1974 voiced concerns about holding costs down. ''The need to restrain costs in the case of third-party employees has only become more acute as agencies provide an increasing amount of needed care,'' Long Island Care said. 
 But Craig Becker, the chief lawyer for Ms. Coke, argued that legislative history showed that the exemption to minimum wage and overtime laws was to apply only to baby sitters and companions whowere employed directly by families and were not regular breadwinners. 
 ''In its exemption for baby sitters and companions Congress had in mind the quintessential neighbor-to-neighbor relations,'' Mr. Becker said. ''Increasingly this is not a casual form of work akin to baby-sitting but a full-time regular type of employment.''
 Ms. Coke became a plaintiff through unusual circumstances. After she was hit by the car six years ago, she hired a lawyer, Leon Greenberg. When seeking to determine her economic losses, Mr. Greenberg learned that she sometimes worked 70 or more hours a week without receiving any overtime premium. 
 He invited her to bring a test case challenging the federal exemption. Ms. Coke agreed. Mr. Greenberg is no longer involved in the case; her current legal costs are being paid by the service employees union. 
 And because of her condition, Ms. Coke now has her own, unpaid, home care aide: her son Michael, a computer technician. 
 She said she brought the lawsuit to help hundreds of thousands of home care workers like her for years to come. But she also said there was another reason. ''I just hope I get some money from this,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Evelyn Coke at home in Queens with her son Michael. A lawsuit she brought is before the Supreme Court. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. 35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); AGING (89%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); MEDICARE (88%); HEALTH CARE (86%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MEDICAID (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (74%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (74%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); HOME HEALTH CARE (70%); LITIGATION (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); NURSING HOMES (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); BUDGETS (68%); COUNTIES (64%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%) Medicine and Health; Home Health Care; Wages and Salaries; Overtime; Minimum Wage; Medicine and Health; Medicaid; Medicare; Aged

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); AARP INC (59%) Labor Department (US); Long Island Cares (Orgn); Aarp; Service Employees International Union; Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: Linda Greenhouse; Evelyn Coke

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



539 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: O.K. Everywhere Except in the N.B.A.

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
 Re ''Growing to Appreciate the N.B.A.'s Age Limit,'' March 20: Where else in the American economy is a citizen denied the right to ply his trade and receive market value compensation until he reaches an arbitrarily determined age? 
 Athletes are entertainers -- their games are entertainment. Actors are free to work well before their 19th birthdays, the same with pop music stars. The child actors are too numerous to name, the same with musicians.
 Tennis players routinely play professionally in their teens, and though it's rare for an 18-year-old to play at the major league level, baseball players routinely sign pro contracts at age 18. Has anyone decreed that Michelle Wie can't play pro golf until she's 19, and at least a year out of high school? 
 The straightforward impact of this rule is to prevent young, usually African-American athletes from playing in the N.B.A. when there is clear evidence that teams would love to draft them out of high school. These athletes are being arbitrarily prevented from pursuing a livelihood. 
 To put it in legal equal-employment terms, 18-year-olds are victims of age-specific disparate treatment, and those who are African-American are additionally victims of the disparate racial impact this rule has on them.Jeffrey BeckerAllen, Tex.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michelle Wie 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); POP & ROCK (71%); TENNIS (70%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (70%); GOLF (69%) Basketball; Draft and Recruitment (Sports); Age, Chronological

PERSON: MICHELLE WIE (68%) Jeffrey Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



540 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: SECURITY COUNCIL VOTES TO TIGHTEN IRAN SANCTIONS

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 24 

 BODY:
The United Nations Security Council unanimously agreed Saturday to impose new, more stringent sanctions to press Iran to suspend uranium enrichment and rejoin negotiations over its nuclear program.
 All 15 members of the Security Council adopted the sanctions, Resolution 1747, which focus on constraining Iranian arms exports, the state-owned Bank Sepah -- which is already under Treasury Department sanctions -- and the Revolutionary Guard Corps, an elite military organization separate from the nation's conventional armed forces.
No surprises were in the resolution, which modestly strengthens largely financial sanctions adopted in December in a first, limited resolution. Senior American officials hailed the new resolution as a significant international rebuke to Iran, and they predicted that the new resolution's prohibitions on dealings with 15 individuals and 13 organizations would leave Tehran more isolated. 
 The Iranian representative to the session denounced the action as unlawful and unjustifiable -- and vowed it would have no impact on what Tehran describes as a peaceful nuclear energy program.
 The Council acted after months of increasing tensions between the United States and Iran, not only over its nuclear program, concerns that many Western and Middle Eastern countries share. The United States in recent weeks has publicly accused Iran of supplying new and powerful explosives to insurgents in Iraq. 
 And the Council voted one day after naval forces under the command of Revolutionary Guards seized eight British sailors and seven British marines in waters off the coast of Iraq.
 In order to assure a unanimous vote that would symbolize united world opinion against Iran's nuclear ambitions, lengthy negotiations continued through Friday on a series of amendments from three of the Security Council's nonpermanent members, South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar. Their votes were seen as particularly important, because South Africa is a leader of the nonaligned movement, Indonesia is the world's most populous Muslim nation and Qatar is a Gulf neighbor of Iran.
 The Security Council representatives of those three nations each expressed deep concerns about the final language of the sanctions resolution, but eventually cast yes votes.
 The sanctions package approved Saturday, American officials said, was devised to do more than simply punish Iran for its nuclear program, as was the more limited goal of the sanctions vote in December. The new language was written to rein in what they see as Tehran's ambitions to become the dominant military power in the Persian Gulf and across the broader Middle East.
 ''We are trying to force a change in the actions and behavior of the Iranian government,'' said R. Nicholas Burns, under secretary of state for political affairs. ''And so the sanctions are immediately focused on the nuclear weapons research program, but we also are trying to limit the ability of Iran to be a disruptive and violent factor in Middle East politics.''
 The resolution calls for freezing the overseas assets of the 15 Iranian citizens and 13 organizations, some involved in the nation's nuclear programs and missile development efforts and some associated with the Revolutionary Guard.
 That corps and a subordinate military unit, the Quds Force, are not directly involved in Iran's nuclear program. But the United States and Israel say they have supplied small arms and rockets to Hezbollah and Hamas, labeled by the State Department as terrorist organizations.
 American intelligence officers also say they have indications that the guard is linked to new and more powerful improvised explosives planted by insurgent groups in Iraq against American and coalition forces there. ''If we can begin to limit the Quds Force, which has been supplying enhanced explosive technology to Iraq that has been used to kill our soldiers, that is a significant step for us,'' Mr. Burns said in a telephone interview after the vote.
 The new resolution prohibits the sale or transfer of Iranian weapons to any nation or organization, and calls on the nations of the world to ''exercise vigilance and restraint'' in exporting weapons to Iran. The measure invokes Chapter 7, Article 41, of the United Nations charter, rendering most of the provisions mandatory, but excluding military action to enforce them.
 The sanction on Iran's fourth-largest bank was written to halt its use as a conduit for money supporting Iran's nuclear program.
 One decidedly weaker sanctions category in the new resolution calls on, but does not require, nations and international organizations not to enter into new commitments for export credits, grants or loans to Iran except in the case of humanitarian or development projects.
 The measure asks the International Atomic Energy Agency to report back within 60 days on whether Iran has suspended its efforts at enriching uranium. If it says Iran has not, further sanctions may be considered. If the agency says Iran has complied, sanctions will be suspended.
 The Iranian seat at the horseshoe-shaped table was filled by Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki. The seat had been reserved for Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, but on Friday Iranian officials ignited an exchange of recriminations, saying that the president's trip had been scuttled by tardy action from the United States government in issuing the visas. 
 In reply, a State Department spokesman, Tom Casey, said the United States Embassy in Bern, Switzerland, which handles visas for Iranians, had issued all of the required documents by early Friday and in ample time for the visit. It was not possible to independently verify either position. 
 After the vote, the Iranian foreign minister made a long and defiant rebuttal to the Security Council, dismissing the sanctions as ''unlawful, unnecessary and unjustifiable'' and said they would have no effect.
 ''Iran does not seek confrontation nor does it want anything beyond its inalienable rights,'' Mr. Mottaki said. ''I can assure you that pressure and intimidation will not change Iranian policy.''
 He said that suspension of the Iranian nuclear program ''is neither an option nor a solution,'' and that it was ''a gross violation'' of the United Nations charter to use sanctions in an effort to halt what he contended was a peaceful nuclear energy program.
 The resolution included amended language that stressed the importance of a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East -- without reference to Israel, a close American ally widely believed to have nuclear weapons -- and emphasized the importance of the role played by the International Atomic Energy Agency in nonproliferation efforts and safeguarding nuclear materials.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alejandro Daniel Wolf, left, the acting United States ambassador, and Ambassador Wang Guangya of China. (Photo by Ramin Talaei for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); NAVIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); POLITICS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; Uranium; Uranium

COMPANY: BANK SEPAH (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%) United Nations; Bank Sepah (Iranian Bank); United Nations; Bank Sepah (Iranian Bank)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Thom Shanker; Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); QATAR (94%); INDONESIA (94%); IRAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (79%) Iran; Qatar; South Africa; Indonesia; Iran; Qatar; South Africa; Indonesia; Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



541 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 414 words

PERSON: Howard P. Ronson

HEADLINE: Howard Ronson, 63, Builder of Towers, Dies

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Howard P. Ronson, a British real estate developer who in the 1980s became one of the most prolific builders of office space in Manhattan, died Wednesday near his home in Monaco. He was 63. 
 The cause was complications of cancer, said Larry Wyman, a principal in the HRO Group, where Mr. Ronson was chairman.
The HRO Group is the parent company of HRO France and HRO International, the New York-based development firm that Mr. Ronson started in 1980. 
 Mr. Ronson came to New York in 1979, when Manhattan's commercial real estate market was in a recession. Within three years, he had four major construction projects going at the same time. 
 Since 1980, HRO International has built 12 office towers, with about 5.5 million square feet of space, in Manhattan. Among them are the 33-story Tower 56 on East 56th Street; 380 Madison Avenue, which is between 46th and 47th Streets and has 26 floors; and the 30-story Broad Financial Center on Whitehall Street.
 In 1981, excavation for one of the company's buildings, at 175 Water Street near the South Street Seaport, was halted by Mr. Ronson after the hull of a 92-foot merchant ship from the mid-1700s was unearthed. The bow was removed for restoration and sent to the Mariners' Museum in Newport News, Va. A 30-story building now stands at 175 Water Street. 
 At 32 Old Slip, Mr. Ronson's company built Financial Square, a 33-story building with a granite and silver-tinted glass facade. It had been the site of the United States Assay Office, where thousands of pounds of gold and silver were once stored and damaged paper money was incinerated.
 Howard Philip Ronson was born on May 28, 1943, the son of Anne and Gerald Ronson. His father was a homebuilder in England. Mr. Ronson is survived by his wife, the former Angelika Ivanc; two daughters, Gisele and Livia; a stepson, Stanley Shashoua of Manhattan; and a sister, Benita Refson, of London. 
 After graduating from Carmel College in England, Mr. Ronson joined his father's homebuilding company in 1963. The company was at the center of a controversy in the late 1960s when large numbers of homebuyers complained about poor construction. An investigation by Britain's Department of Trade and Industry found ''gross mismanagement.'' 
 Mr. Ronson started his career in commercial development in 1968. In addition to the New York buildings, more than 40 construction projects, including office towers and shopping malls, have been completed by his companies in nine European cities.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard P. Ronson, the British real estate developer, in 1983. (Photo by William Sauro/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); DEATHS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); RETAILERS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (88%); EUROPE (78%); MONACO (73%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



542 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Slow Down, Brave Multitasker, And Don't Read This in Traffic

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Confident multitaskers of the world, could I have your attention? 
 Think you can juggle phone calls, e-mail, instant messages and computer work to get more done in a time-starved world? Read on, preferably shutting out the cacophony of digital devices for a while.
Several research reports, both recently published and not yet published, provide evidence of the limits of multitasking. The findings, according to neuroscientists, psychologists and management professors, suggest that many people would be wise to curb their multitasking behavior when working in an office, studying or driving a car.
 These experts have some basic advice. Check e-mail messages once an hour, at most. Listening to soothing background music while studying may improve concentration. But other distractions -- most songs with lyrics, instant messaging, television shows -- hamper performance. Driving while talking on a cellphone, even with a hands-free headset, is a bad idea.
 In short, the answer appears to lie in managing the technology, instead of merely yielding to its incessant tug. 
 ''Multitasking is going to slow you down, increasing the chances of mistakes,'' said David E. Mayer, a cognitive scientist and director of the Brain, Cognition and Action Laboratory at the University of Michigan. ''Disruptions and interruptions are a bad deal from the standpoint of our ability to process information.''
 The human brain, with its hundred billion neurons and hundreds of trillions of synaptic connections, is a cognitive powerhouse in many ways. ''But a core limitation is an inability to concentrate on two things at once,'' said Rene Marois, a neuroscientist and director of the Human Information Processing Laboratory at Vanderbilt University. 
 Mr. Marois and three other Vanderbilt researchers reported in an article last December in the journal Neuron that they used magnetic resonance imaging to pinpoint the bottleneck in the brain and to measure how much efficiency is lost when trying to handle two tasks at once. 
 Study participants were given two tasks and were asked to respond to sounds and images. The first was to press the correct key on a computer keyboard after hearing one of eight sounds. The other task was to speak the correct vowel after seeing one of eight images.
 The researchers said that they did not see a delay if the participants were given the tasks one at a time. But the researchers found that response to the second task was delayed by up to a second when the study participants were given the two tasks at about the same time.
 In many daily tasks, of course, a lost second is unimportant. But one implication of the Vanderbilt research, Mr. Marois said, is that talking on a cellphone while driving a car is dangerous. A one-second delay in response time at 60 miles an hour could be fatal, he noted. 
 ''We are under the impression that we have this brain that can do more than it often can,'' observed Mr. Marois, who said he turns off his cellphone when driving.
 The young, according to conventional wisdom, are the most adept multitaskers. Just look at teenagers and young workers in their 20s, e-mailing, instant messaging and listening to iPods at once.
 Recently completed research at the Institute for the Future of the Mind at Oxford University suggests the popular perception is open to question. A group of 18- to 21-year-olds and a group of 35- to 39-year-olds were given 90 seconds to translate images into numbers, using a simple code. 
 The younger group did 10 percent better when not interrupted. But when both groups were interrupted by a phone call, a cellphone short-text message or an instant message, the older group matched the younger group in speed and accuracy. 
 ''The older people think more slowly, but they have a faster fluid intelligence, so they are better able to block out interruptions and choose what to focus on,'' said Martin Westwell, deputy director of the institute.
 Mr. Westwell is 36, and thus, should be better able to cope with interruptions. But he has modified his work habits since completing the research project last month.
 ''I check my e-mail much less often,'' he said. ''The interruptions really can throw you off-track.''
 In a recent study, a group of Microsoft workers took, on average, 15 minutes to return to serious mental tasks, like writing reports or computer code, after responding to incoming e-mail or instant messages. They strayed off to reply to other messages or browse news, sports or entertainment Web sites. 
 ''I was surprised by how easily people were distracted and how long it took them to get back to the task,'' said Eric Horvitz, a Microsoft research scientist and co-author, with Shamsi Iqbal of the University of Illinois, of a paper on the study that will be presented next month.
 ''If it's this bad at Microsoft,'' Mr. Horvitz added, ''it has to be bad at other companies, too.''
 In the computer age, technology has been seen not only as a factor contributing to information overload but also as a tool for coping with it. Computers can help people juggle workloads, according a paper presented this month at a conference at the National Bureau of Economic Research. The researchers scrutinized the work at an unnamed executive recruiting firm, including projects and 125,000 e-mail messages. They also examined the firm revenues, people's compensation and the use of information technology by the recruiters.
 The recruiters who were the heaviest users of e-mail and the firm's specialized database were the most productive in completing projects. ''You can use the technology to supplement your brain and keep track of more things,'' said Erik Brynjolfsson of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a co-author of the paper, along with Sinan Aral of the Stern School of Business at New York University, and Marshall Van Alstyne of Boston University. 
 But the paper also found that ''beyond an optimum, more multitasking is associated with declining project completion rates and revenue generation.'' 
 For the executive recruiters, the optimum workload was four to six projects, taking two to five months each.
 The productivity lost by overtaxed multitaskers cannot be measured precisely, but it is probably a lot. Jonathan B. Spira, chief analyst at Basex, a business-research firm, estimates the cost of interruptions to the American economy at nearly $650 billion a year.
 That total is an update of research published 18 months ago, based on surveys and interviews with professionals and office workers, which concluded that 28 percent of their time was spent on what they deemed interruptions and recovery time before they returned to their main tasks.
 Mr. Spira concedes that the $650 billion figure is a rough estimate -- an attempt to attach a number to a big problem. Work interruptions will never -- and should not -- be eliminated, he said, since they are often how work is done and ideas are shared. After all, one person's interruption is another's collaboration.
 The information age is really only a decade or two old in the sense of most people working and communicating on digital devices all day, Mr. Spira said. In the industrial era, it took roughly a century until Frederick Winslow Taylor in 1911 published his principles of ''scientific management'' for increasing worker productivity.
 ''We don't have any equivalent yet for the knowledge economy,'' Mr. Spira said.
 But university and corporate researchers say they can help. Brain scans, social networking algorithms and other new tools should help provide a deeper understanding of the limits and the potential of the human brain, they said. That will teach workers in groups how to manage the overload of digital communications efficiently.
 A new organization, the Institute for Innovation and Information Productivity, whose sponsors include Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft and Johnson & Johnson, has been created to sponsor such research. It provided money for the recent research project at Oxford's Institute for the Future of the Mind, for example.
 Further research could help create clever technology, like sensors or smart software that workers could instruct with their preferences and priorities to serve as a high-tech ''time nanny'' to ease the modern multitasker's plight.
 That is what Mr. Horvitz of Microsoft is working on. ''We live in this Wild West of digital communications now,'' he said. ''But I think there's a lot of hope for the future.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about the limits of multitasking misspelled the surname of a cognitive scientist at the University of Michigan, who said that '''Multitasking is going to slow you down, increasing the chances of mistakes.'' It is David E. Meyer, not Mayer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On bicycle, on foot and often behind the wheel, users of digital devices present potentially dangerous scenes every day in Manhattan. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 The human brain is a cognitive powerhouse in many ways, but researchers say it is not very good at concentrating on more than one task. (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSTANT MESSAGING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); BRAIN (90%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); MUSIC (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%) Brain; Cellular Telephones; Computers and the Internet; Research; Age (Chronological); Brain

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



543 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Long at Ease, an M-16 Reports for Fund-Raising Duty

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: LAPEER, Mich. 

 BODY:
If you've ever wanted to own an M-16 rifle, and who hasn't, now is your chance. The Sheriff's Department here in Lapeer County has put theirs up for bid, and as far as fully automatic machine guns go, she's a beauty.
 ''This is the real deal from the Colt factory and marked as M-16 with safe, semi and auto selector switch,'' reads the department's solicitation for bids. ''This weapon is complete and well maintained.'' 
 And a surefire conversation starter.
 But the auction is less about a proud addition to someone's private artillery than it is about Michigan's faltering economy. These are strange, tight times here, so strange and tight that it sort of makes sense for a law enforcement agency to sell off a machine gun so that it can afford to buy other guns.
 ''We've all been cut beyond the meat, beyond the bone,'' says Robert Rapson, the undersheriff.
 Which is why that near-mint M-16, a member of the department longer than some sheriff's deputies have been alive, was suddenly busted from the rank of firearm to collectible.
 Mr. Rapson, 55 and burly, has a voice as deep as his affection for his county, Lapeer, a farming and bedroom community of 93,000 people, with tidy towns, dozens of lakes and an economy whose link to the automotive industry is reflected in obituaries: 30 years at Buick City; 15 years with the AC Spark Plug Division. Detroit is about 60 miles to the south, Flint about 20 miles to the west.
 Mr. Rapson joined the Sheriff's Department in 1974, when it had just 16 members, a fifth of today's complement. Over the years he did everything from road patrol to detective work to running the county jail -- so much late-night cop work that he developed an allergy to coffee. Ask him about a ribbon of distinction on his brown uniform, and he declines to elaborate.
 Back in 1975, he was dispatched to a local gun company to pick up an M-16 A-1, purchased for $500 and capable of shooting hundreds of rounds a minute. His superiors were concerned, he says, about the potential for ''civil unrest.''
 Some deputies were fresh from Vietnam and knew how to shoot an M-16. Others, like Mr. Rapson, had to be trained. ''I'll always remember how noisy it was,'' he says. ''How hot it was, and how inaccurate it was.''
 Fortunately, civil rest reigned in Lapeer County through the 1970s, the 1980s, the 1990s, and into the new millennium. Except for being cleaned every six months, and occasionally fired to make sure it still worked, the M-16 stood upright and unused in the department's small gun room.
 The unrest, in fact, was in the economy: up, down, up and now down, in part because of the automotive industry's ever-shrinking presence in Michigan. A short ride to Flint provides a hint of what was, and what is, through the vast emptiness of Buick City, where acres of parking slots are filled not with cars but with man-size weeds.
 Outside the office of United Auto Workers Local 599, the American flag always flies at half-staff because so many soldiers from Michigan die overseas, a union official explains. ''It's just staying that way because every time we raise it, we have to lower it again.''
 But a flag at half-staff in Flint would seem appropriate these days no matter what.
 Here in Lapeer County, property tax delinquencies are up, restaurant tips are down, and people are anxious about jobs and pensions. Turn left out of the Sheriff's Department parking lot, and you'll see an empty factory; turn right, you'll find another.
 John Biscoe, the county administrator, says that Lapeer has spent the last few years steeling itself against the economic downturn with common business sense. For example, instead of a jail kitchen and a senior center kitchen, there is now one for both. ''But separate menus,'' he adds.
 Recently the Sheriff's Department decided to rearm its deputies, who had been using the same heavy Smith & Wesson handguns since 1992. A newer and much lighter model costs about $490 each, Mr. Rapson says. ''But we knew we were not going to get the resources from the county commissioners.''
 Then someone remembered that M-16 in the gun room. By now it was a treasure: an early model in excellent condition, fully automatic and ''fully transferable,'' too, which meant that because it was so old, its sale would not be hindered by a 1986 federal law that, with a few exceptions, prohibits the transfer or possession of new fully automatic machine guns.
 Soon an auction announcement was appearing on the department's Web site, along with a photograph of the M-16 above the words ''Not many scratches.''
 Mr. Rapson says the machine gun is worth more than $15,000, which is but one reason gang members, say, are unlikely to submit a bid. ''Why should they?'' he says. ''They can just go to some back-alley machine shop.''
 Most likely, he says, the winning bidder will hold the gun for a while -- thinking who knows what -- then vacuum-seal it and place it in a vault, the way a coin collector might protect an investment in a rare silver dollar.
 Bids must be received by 5 p.m. on May 1. All applicable laws apply, and any sale is contingent upon a background check by the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. 
 And if the Sheriff's Department still doesn't like the looks of the winning bidder, Mr. Rapson says, ''We have a caveat in our process: We can refuse all bids.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The sheriff's gun room, top, in Lapeer, Mich., with the M-16 in the corner at center. At a union hall, flags fly at half-staff to honor soldiers killed overseas. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times)Map of Michigan highlighting Lapeer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (92%); FIREARMS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); SMALL ARMS MFG (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); RIOTS (60%) Police; Firearms; Auctions; Sheriffs; Machine Guns

PERSON: Dan Barry

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (56%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Lapeer County (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



544 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION / WESTCHESTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Fitting In on Campus

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE 

 BODY:
SINCE 1904, when a group of Ursuline nuns moved into a fortresslike mansion on the south side of this city to begin New York state's first Catholic college for women, all of the campus's buildings have been clad in granite.
 Like the other structures on the 20-acre campus of the College of New Rochelle, the newest building -- a 55,000-square-foot $28 million health and recreation center scheduled to be completed later this year -- is being faced with granite from an area near Lake Champlain on the New York-Vermont border. 
But unlike most of the older structures here, which are neo-Gothic collegiate in style, the latest addition has a distinctly modernistic flavor, featuring a two-story glass lobby and architectural concrete forming a wall along a garden.
 And it is described as environmentally sound, in keeping with current national standards for green buildings. The building has six skylights rising up through a rooftop garden over a competition-length pool and tournament-sized gymnasium, with bleachers to seat 1,000 spectators; they admit natural light and reduce heating costs.
 Recycled glass has been mixed into the concrete used for the pool, consuming less concrete and taking advantage of glass that would otherwise end up in a landfill.
 The building also has a heat recovery system to recycle energy, so that warm air, instead of being discharged from the building, is run through a system of pipes to warm the water in the pool.
 But in keeping with the past and with the spiritual underpinnings of the college, which began with 12 students and now has an enrollment of 6,500, the wellness center is designed to be a place for mental and spiritual as well as physical growth. 
 In addition to two classrooms, a seminar room and workout areas, the new building has a 600-square-foot mediation room that can also be used for yoga and Pilates, and the roof garden has an outdoor chapel overlooking what is said to be one of the largest copper beech trees in the region.
 ''The architecture is prompted by a belief that it takes more than just sweat to promote total wellness,'' said Joseph G. Tattoni, a design principal for Ikon.5 Architects of Princeton, N.J., the firm in charge of the project. ''This is a Catholic institution, and there's the issue of the soul.'' 
 Mr. Tattoni described the new two-story center as ''a paradisiacal kind of place.'' He said: ''Years ago, it would have been just a recreation center. Today, we're calling buildings like this holistic wellness centers.''
 Recently, Ikon.5 Architects designed a $10 million 15,000-square-foot student center at the State University of New York in New Paltz and a $6 million 22,000-square-foot public library in New Castle, Del. Both also use green technology.
 At the College of New Rochelle, the pool was placed underground to reduce the profile of the new structure in the surrounding neighborhood, which consists of mostly two-story single-family homes and some midrise apartment complexes. 
 The roof garden over the pool wing, at grade level, will consist of five feet of high-drainage topsoil augmented with slag and shale to reduce runoff, Mr. Tattoni said. Because the site of the pool and its garden overhead was formerly a parking lot, the new construction will add more permeable surfaces to the campus, he explained.
 In accordance with the academic charter drawn up a century ago, the granite on all of the buildings is of the same stock used for the college's initial home, Leland Castle, which has a soaring turret and crenelated roof line. It was acquired for $35,000 at the turn of the 20th century. 
 The 8,000-square-foot former residence, which has been designated a National Historical Site, is these days used for the college's administrative offices and as an art gallery. It was designed by the New York architect William Thomas Beers during the late 1850s for Simeon Leland, a hotel entrepreneur who used it initially as a summer home and then year round until 1880. Before being acquired from a subsequent owner, the building had been used as a hotel, a boarding school and a hunting club.
 Now a cluster of 20 classroom buildings, the main campus serves as the home base for the college. There are five other locations: Co-op City in the Bronx, Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn, downtown Manhattan, Harlem and the South Bronx.
 The college consists of the all-women's School of Arts and Sciences, and three coeducational schools: the School of New Resources (for students 21 and over); the School of Nursing; and the Graduate School, which offers degrees in several programs, including communications.
 Only 10 percent of the students are in their teens and 20s; 90 percent are adults returning to school, said Stephen J. Sweeney, the president.
 As for the stone facades on all the main campus buildings, Dr. Sweeney conceded that granite required by the charter is not the most economical way to go.
 During the Depression, when the College of New Rochelle's library was built, architects used more mortar and less stone because of economic constraints. In retrospect, that may have been shortsighted, since the joints on that building have since been resealed to correct water damage.
 The costs for the newest building are being covered by a larger capital campaign begun in 2003. Of the $28 million, $4.3 million is a state grant for capital projects at private and public colleges and universities, and $1 million comes from a federal grant. Corporations and foundations have pledged $350,000, said Judy Huntington, the chief financial officer for the college. The remainder is private donations.
 Dorothy Larkin, an associate professor and the coordinator of the college's master's program in nursing, said the Wellness Center would become a hub where students would learn about disease prevention and stress management. ''A healthy campus is the function of the curriculum,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: STONE FACED -- The designs of the new wellness center and the castle, now an administrative building at the College of New Rochelle, are very different, though both use granite quarried near Lake Champlain. (Rendering by Ikon.5 Architects for the College of New Rochelle, above
 Alan Zale for The New York Times, below) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); HVAC SYSTEMS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); YOGA (76%); GREEN BUILDING (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (76%); GARDENING (75%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); TOURNAMENTS (67%); LANDFILLS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



545 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: MORE THAN CAB FARE

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
You could say that John Leahy, the top salesman at Airbus, has given his heart to the new double-decker, super-jumbo A380 that landed at Kennedy Airport last week. Mr. Leahy called it a ''personal honor'' to be on the inaugural flight because, in his youth, he was a cab driver who picked up fares at Kennedy and watched the planes fly overhead. (A video tour of the Airbus can be viewed at nytimes.com. ) 
 This week, he was Airbus's man of the hour, chatting up analysts, investors and the media, and being the master of ceremonies on Wednesday as the A380 took a V.I.P. swing over the skies of Manhattan -- with all-important money managers and Wall Street analysts in first class and others back in economy. There was no executive more ubiquitous than Mr. Leahy and his rapid-patter promotion of the virtues of the eight-story-high, 1.3-million-ton aerial behemoth on its maiden voyage to New York.
 But these have not been easy days for the A380 -- or Mr. Leahy. Doctors have told him to slow down, orders he has obviously ignored, after having emergency heart surgery in November. That health crisis came just as one big customer, FedEx, canceled a $3 billion order. 
 The A380 itself is two years late in delivery and has yet to find an American customer. 
 Yet the ever-ebullient Mr. Leahy was ready to pull out his order book at a press conference for the $300 million plane: ''We have special discounts being offered today.'' LESLIE WAYNE

CORRECTION-DATE: April 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A brief report in the Suits column on March 25, about the inaugural flight of the superjumbo A380 to Kennedy International Airport, misstated the plane's maximum weight on takeoff. It is more than 1.2 million pounds, not 1.3 million tons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Leahy (Photo by Stan Honda -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); AIRLINES (77%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Kennedy International Airport (NYC) 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Airbus Industrie

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%)

PERSON: John Leahy; Leslie Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



546 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: How to Show That You're No Gordon Gekko

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
BURIED in the Blackstone Group's 221-page-thick prospectus is an unusual paragraph: The firm says it plans to start a charitable foundation.
 The prospectus says that the partners will contribute as much as $150 million of their equity to the foundation, which ''is being established to support charitable organizations in the communities in which we operate and worthy charitable organizations with which our employees are personally involved.''
The reference to the foundation didn't come with many other details, but its purpose was clear: to show a cynical public that the planned $4 billion initial public offering isn't a smash-and-grab job and that the firm's partners are not a bunch of Gordon Gekkos. 
 It is an important step -- though perhaps only a baby step -- for an industry that has come under attack in Europe, and increasingly in the United States, as being overpaid and out of touch. And it's a not-so-subtle effort to rehabilitate the image of Blackstone's co-founder, Stephen A. Schwarzman, who has endured whispered criticism over his recent higher public profile and his lavish 60th birthday party. 
 Skeptics, of course, will say that the new foundation is simply about ''optics'' -- or worse, a clever way for its partners to offset their tax gains from the I.P.O. 
 But it's hard to criticize people for giving away money. And, frankly, the industry needs all the image-polishing help it can get. Despite the drubbings that the buyout titans take in the press -- including from this column -- they have become an important and, dare I say, vital, part of the economy. 
 So to help the private equity kings repair their reputation (and they are clearly obsessed with their image -- witness the recent woe-is-me speeches they've been giving lately), here are a few free suggestions for getting the public on their side:OPEN YOUR CHECKBOOK -- For some inexplicable reason, private equity guys have rarely been big philanthropists -- at least not publicly. That's led to ugly comparisons to robber barons. Oddly enough, the hedge fund industry, a group that is often described as fast money, has been much more active in philanthropic circles. Paul Tudor Jones II, for example, the founder of Tudor Investment, started the Robin Hood Foundation, which fights poverty in New York City. It has created a lot of good will. 
 When was the last time you have heard about one of the buyout kings giving away a fortune? Mr. Schwarzman may be the chairman of the Kennedy Center in Washington and Henry Kravis may have a gallery named after him at the Museum of Modern Art, and certainly others have given money to pet causes. But a big donation to aid the poor or to the environment could go a long way.
 There may be a high hurdle in overcoming the cynicism that is endemic to the industry. After I suggested to one buyout king that he make a $100 million donation to a high-profile cause, he replied, ''Look at how much good that did for Ken Lay.''PULL A BUFFETT -- Criticism of the way the private equity industry pays taxes -- at the much lower capital gains rate, rather than regular income -- is getting legs in Washington. The industry's first instinct will be to resist it tooth and nail. But one of the private equity kings should come out in favor of higher taxation for the wealthy, as Warren E. Buffett has, making himself a man of the people as a result. 
 Sure, it will cut their paychecks by 20 percent, but they can clearly afford it -- and, it would be an instant image polisher. For a bold private equity king who cares more about his legacy than his bank account, it would be a powerful way to cement his reputation.
 And let's be fair: even though most private equity titans are furious about the prospect of higher taxes, at least some of them with whom I have talked privately acknowledge that the tax treatment doesn't necessarily square with good policy or even common sense.MAKE NEW FRIENDS -- Look at all the good publicity that the Texas Pacific Group and Kohlberg Kravis Robert & Company generated as a result of their agreement to acquire TXU, the giant Texas utility. The private equity firms made nice with the environmental groups before doing the deal and even brought them into the process so that they could claim some credit for concessions to reduce coal-fired plants and carbon-emission limits. It was a brilliant move, even if it was a bit theatrical, because the environmental groups became de facto spokesmen for the private equity industry, lending an air of credibility to the firms and the deal.
 The same should be done with unions, especially in Europe, where the pressure is particularly acute. The industry should also reach out to the pension funds and try to use them to carry their message. Having the California pension fund Calpers and others as outspoken boosters of the industry -- they already fund these enormous deals -- would help in Washington and with the public.RENAME THE INDUSTRY, AGAIN -- In the 1970s, private equity deals were called ''bootstraps,'' which was hard for anyone to understand. In the 1980s, they became ''leveraged buyouts,'' but that was an ugly term with negative connotations. And in the 1990s, the industry moved toward the term ''private equity,'' which seemed a lot more polite, but has come to represent secrecy. 
 Now that so many firms are expected to go public, they need a new name. David M. Rubenstein of the Carlyle Group has been pushing ''change equity.'' Maybe it's simply ''the new conglomerate,'' but that doesn't feel that original. I'm pushing for ''operational finance,'' which encompasses the best aspects of the business. 
 Got a better idea? Send me your suggestion at dealbooktips@nytimes.com and we'll publish the best ones online and in the next column.DealBook also has a newsletter and a Web site, nytimes.com/dealbook, that is updated continuously when markets are open.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (84%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); BONDS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (74%)

ORGANIZATION: Blackstone Group

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (50%) Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



547 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: The Split-Screen State of the Union

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONE of my many obsessions is to listen to the speeches of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. over and over again. Almost every line is a jewel, but two in particular come to mind as I survey the state of the union.
 One, uttered after white violence and threats by activists challenging him to become more militant, was, simply, ''Somewhere somebody must have a little sense, and that's the strong person.'' He meant sense enough to forswear violence and to turn to hope. 
The second, which reverberates in my gray-haired head moment by moment, is, ''If America is to remain a first-class nation, she can no longer have second-class citizens.'' 
 Just file that away while we think about a few current facts of life: down the street from our house is the Santa Palm Car Wash. I bring my car there every couple of weeks so that men who work harder in a day than I do in a year can wash and wax it. In the waiting area, there is a split-screen television for the amusement of us customers. One side of the screen shows a news channel and the other runs local commercials.
 Two or so weeks ago, while I was waiting for my car, the news channel side of the TV showed a long profile of a platoon of Marines who had been ambushed in Iraq. We saw close-ups of the many killed Marines, scenes of their fellow Marines bowing in prayer next to the boots and rifles on their fallen comrades -- tough, strong Marines in tears.
 Next to this wrenching sequence, the ads told of cosmetic dentistry that would give you a dazzling smile, of breast augmentation, of the best buys on collagen and Botox injections to keep you forever young, and of $5 million estates for sale. 
 If I was reading the faces of the other customers correctly, they, like me, were staggered by the juxtaposition of the sublime and tragic next to the trivial and obscenely narcissistic. Botox and our brothers' and sisters' blood. Each took up as much space on the screen. How confused can we be?
 Let me give you a tiny example of how confused we can be at the corporate level, and I owe my old pal and colleague Al Franken for making it crystal clear to me.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission is apparently wrestling with how to punish corporations whose executives and boards of directors have backdated stock option grants. This is when a company gives favored insiders the chance to buy stock at prices not determined in any random way, but by ex post facto determinations. This allows buys at cheap prices even after the stock has rallied, and a profit is thus built in.
 The S.E.C. wants to know how to determine what a company owes its stockholders when backdating has occurred, and it is using all kinds of clever ''law and economics'' methods to go at the problem.
 But this approach misses the whole point, as Al ingeniously suggested to me recently. It isn't the company that owes money to the stockholders: the company and its shareholders are jointly victims of the crooked management that rigged the game. 
 What really happened was this: The insiders were supposed to be paying a random price, say $100 a share, for the stock. Instead, they cooked the books so they always got to buy the stock at less than a randomly selected price. The company and the ordinary stockholders were thus cheated, defrauded, ''inside traded'' out of the difference between the rigged price and what the nonrigged price would have been. 
 This is the basic measure of damages, it seems to me, and it's owed by the miscreants -- and the directors and officers who let them get away with it -- to the company and shareholders. The company is not the villain -- it's the victim.
 How this could be seen any other way is now simply a mystery to me. We don't need any complex calculations about the stock price before and after a disclosure of backdating. Just take the difference between what the option price should have been if it had been awarded fairly and what it was, and have the insiders pay it back, as well as some fair exemplary amount, and you're all set.
 But here's an even more stunning example of how far from common sense we are in today's world, and how clearly common stockholders have come to be second-class citizens. (The insiders are the first-class citizens.) Even as the S.E.C. ponders the epidemic of backdating -- which to me is clear-cut fraud, insider trading and looting -- it is also sending its chairman, Christopher Cox, to meetings set up by the ever-fascinating Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, to see about relieving the supposed regulatory burden on Wall Street and American business generally.
 THAT'S right: with the record of corporate executive wrongdoing at dramatic levels, the government is concerned about giving corporate executives more leeway and making litigation against them more difficult. With Wall Street bonuses in the $40 billion range, Mr. Paulson is worried that Wall Streeters are not treated well enough. With executives' pay in the stratosphere, not even counting what they steal in options, the government is worried that things are too tough for them.
 It has all become surreal, like those images at the car wash. And, meanwhile, brave men and women die far from K Street or Broad Street or Greenwich. Somebody's got to have a little sense in this situation, but money talks.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (86%); ETHICS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (64%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (63%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (63%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (60%); DENTISTRY (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Boards of Directors; Securities and Commodities Violations

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (90%); AL FRANKEN (50%) Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



548 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2517 words

HEADLINE: The Art's Here. Where's the Crowd?

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
JOHN BALDESSARI, the conceptual artist who has long made his home here, for years gave his college art students one piece of advice when they graduated: Go to New York, the capital of the art world.
 Now, however, Mr. Baldessari has a different view. ''I don't think it matters,'' he said recently. ''More and more young artists leave school and stay here. The opportunities are better, and the cost of living is cheaper. People involved in art regularly come to L.A. It really doesn't matter if they live in New York or L.A.''
Two decades after Los Angeles emerged as the nation's second art capital, the city is reaping the benefits of a migration of artists, galleries, dealers and curators. In recent years more than two artists have moved to this city for every one that moved away, a net rate of gain that is higher than in any metropolitan area in the country, according to an analysis of Census Bureau statistics by Ann Markusen, a professor at the University of Minnesota. 
 In the process new centers of gravity have emerged for contemporary art and artists in a city that has suffered for years because of its lack of a central arts district. Now there is not one such geographic center but several: downtown, where a thriving gallery district operates in what used to be a nighttime ghost town, as well as in former industrial areas in Culver City and Santa Monica. And a new generation of curators have been lured to the major museums here. The Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the J. Paul Getty Museum and the Hammer Museum have each attracted energizing new talent in recent years.
 Of course the city has long since emerged as an important center for the performing arts as well. The Los Angeles Philharmonic, regarded as one of the country's most dynamic orchestras, gained added allure with its move to Frank Gehry's 2003 Disney Hall on Grand Avenue, and the Los Angeles Opera is preparing for its first-ever ''Ring'' cycle next door at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion. 
 In architecture Los Angeles has been an incubator not just for Mr. Gehry but for the rising star Thom Mayne, and high-profile commissions by Renzo Piano at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and Steven Holl at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County are proceeding apace. And the boom in television and film production in Hollywood has created new opportunities for visual artists and dancers, many of whom also work for companies that perform in or have close ties to Pacific Rim countries.
 Yet the city is still struggling to attract cultural tourists. While New York, London and Paris each attract 10 million to 15 million such visitors per year, Los Angeles draws only about 2.5 million, according to a 2004 study by the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation.
 ''Why is that?'' asked the philanthropist Eli Broad, the city's most visible and generous champion of the arts. ''Perception. We have not promoted cultural travel. That's going to start happening, and that's going to get the city more and more attention.''
 Whereas 40 percent of visitors to New York and London take part in some sort of cultural activity -- a museum visit, a theatrical performance or the like -- and 85 percent of visitors to Paris do so, only about 1 in 10 tourists to Los Angeles visit a cultural site.
 To remedy that Mr. Broad and other civic leaders are bargaining on their investment in the commercial and cultural districts that are taking shape downtown, like the Grand Avenue Project and L.A. Live, efforts that include hotels, restaurants, shops and entertainment centers.
 ''It will mean a big boost to the economy, and a big boost to how our city is viewed internationally,'' Mr. Broad said. ''It's not simply sunshine, beaches and Hollywood here.''
 But that effort hasn't been easy. Two years ago Mr. Broad tried to raise $10 million in public financing to promote the arts here. While the city promised $2 million, officials at the county, state and federal levels balked, arguing in part that more private money should be raised for that purpose. For now the effort has stalled, although Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa said in an interview that he would like to create a public-private partnership to accomplish what Mr. Broad proposed.
 The mayor's initiative, however, awaits his appointment of a new general manager for the city's cultural affairs department, a job that has gone unfilled since the previous department manager resigned nine months ago.
 The department manager will be charged with fashioning a new cultural master plan for the city, a blueprint for encouraging both local investment in the arts and reaching out to areas of the city that are underserved by museums, theaters and the like. The master plan was last revised in 1991. 
 ''I think there are a lot of people who want to get involved in the arts, and would if there was a conduit for it,'' Mr. Villaraigosa said in an interview.
 But that financial conduit is conspicuously absent, especially at a time when corporations are cutting their arts budgets or using them more for marketing than for philanthropy. That problem is aggravated by the relative shortage of major corporations here: Los Angeles has fewer Fortune 500 companies than Richmond, Va., or Charlotte, N.C. 
 Historically, said Kevin F. McCarthy, a senior social scientist at the Rand Corporation who is working on a study of support systems for the arts in cities around the country, Los Angeles has had three sets of business leaders: the first drawn from the downtown corporations, the second from the high-technology and aerospace industries on the west side, and the third from Hollywood.
 ''You could never get the entertainment industry to work with the other two guys, even though there were some people who had connections in both communities,'' Mr. McCarthy said. The problem with Hollywood leaders, he said, is that ''they're so used to publicity and understanding the importance of marketing that they want to be the center of attention on all of this stuff.''
 ''I think they also have a very short-sighted focus, like much of the corporate sector, on profits,'' he added. ''And they tend to see this as a zero- sum game.''
 Some Hollywood moguls are already big donors of course. David Geffen gave $5 million in 1996 to the Museum of Contemporary Art; it now maintains the Geffen Contemporary galleries as a separate part of its three-campus institution. Mr. Geffen also gave money for the renovation of a theater near the University of California at Los Angeles campus in Westwood that is now called the Geffen Playhouse. And Disney Hall was built with $120 million from corporations and private donors, along with an initial $50 million from Walt Disney's widow, Lillian, and more than $100 million from Los Angeles County. 
 Mr. Broad says he is confident that Hollywood's commitment will increase, in part through the goading of newly arrived museum directors, including Michael Govan. Mr. Govan arrived one year ago from the Dia Art Foundation in New York to take over as director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and has forged new connections with Hollywood. Among his additions to the museum's board are Barbra Streisand; Michael Crichton; Terry Semel, the chief executive of Yahoo and former co-chief executive of Warner Brothers; and Willow Bay, the television reporter who is married to Robert Iger, chief executive of Disney.
 Now, however, Mayor Villaraigosa may be in the best position to mobilize money into the arts, galvanize business leaders in Hollywood and beyond, and raise the visibility of the city's cultural scene. ''He's got the kind of sex appeal that Hollywood wants,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ''He could bring these guys together,'' in a way that the previous mayor, James K. Hahn, could not.
 In 2004 Mr. Hahn floated the idea of doing away with the city's cultural affairs department altogether. That effort was fought by Mr. Villaraigosa, then a councilman, earning him the support of many grass-roots arts organizations, which helped his 2005 election campaign.
 ''I think we can get Hollywood to be more active in the arts,'' Mr. Villaraigosa said. ''One of the reasons why we're focused on finding a visionary leader in the area of the arts is because it's going to take someone who's got the wherewithal, the respect, the ethos if you will, in the arts community and can rally that community in support of new initiatives,'' like cultural programs in the schools and greater citywide spending on the arts.
 If anyone knows how hard it can be to attract that support, it is Mr. Broad, who seems to have a hand in almost everything that goes on in the arts.
 He was the founding chairman of the Museum of Contemporary Art, and its present location on Grand Avenue downtown, near Disney Hall, is a direct result of his efforts. Mr. Broad is also a trustee of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, which is currently building the Broad Contemporary Art Museum on its campus on Wilshire Boulevard, thanks to a $60 million gift from Mr. Broad and his wife, Edythe. 
 The Broads have also made a big impact on the art schools in the Los Angeles area. Last fall U.C.L.A. opened the Eli and Edythe Broad Art Center, a collection of studios, classrooms, offices and gallery space designed by the architects Richard Meier and Michael Palladino. Outside sits a Richard Serra sculpture commissioned by Mr. Broad for that purpose. And the Broads have donated money for buildings at the two other major art schools in the region, the California Institute of the Arts, known as CalArts, in Valencia, and Pitzer College in Claremont, Calif.
 His efforts extend beyond the visual arts. He recently provided a gift to pay for the Los Angeles Opera's staging of Wagner's ''Ring,'' the first time the complete cycle will be produced here. 
 ''Eli Broad really does seem to be the most strategic thinker right now about L.A. and the arts,'' said Elizabeth Ondaatje, a Rand Corporation researcher who is directing the institution's studies of the arts with Mr. McCarthy. ''Every other month you read another investment they've decided to make.''
 Mr. Broad (whose name rhymes with road) has generated a fair amount of resentment in some corners here for his outsized presence on the art scene. His devotion to the downtown projects have been criticized as ignoring pockets of the city that have less access to the arts, like the largely Hispanic sections of East Los Angeles and the areas south of downtown that have large African-American populations. And some of the resistance he faced in his most recent fund-raising effort came from people who wondered why a billionaire was asking for money from taxpayers to promote museums on whose boards he sits. 
 Ever an optimist, Mr. Broad dismisses those criticisms, saying he prefers to discuss why, despite the relative lack of major corporations here, he still believes that new money can flow to the art world. As evidence, he cited a $25 million donation announced this month by BP, the energy company, to the Los Angeles County Museum to finance a new entrance pavilion. 
 If it has been hard to attract investment and government support for cultural activities, the city's vibrant visual arts scene might be seen as its own best advertisement.
 ''The rest of the world is promoting the city as well or better than L.A. does,'' said Gary Garrels, the chief curator at the Hammer Museum, who moved here two years ago from the Museum of Modern Art in New York. ''All of the curators and galleries that are dynamic are coming to Los Angeles and looking at what's going on here.''
 Downtown, which not too long ago was little more than a ghost town after 5 p.m. on weekdays, now bustles with activity around Fifth and Spring streets on Friday and Saturday nights, when art galleries typically schedule their openings of new shows. Similar scenes unfold around more established galleries on Wilshire Boulevard and among emerging contemporary galleries in Santa Monica and Culver City, the incorporated area south of Interstate 10.
 Last year Los Angeles and its artists were the focus of a major show at the Pompidou Center in Paris, ''Los Angeles 1955-1985: The Birth of an Art Capital.'' This month the Hammer Museum here will feature 15 contemporary Los Angeles artists in a show exploring what it means to create here, playfully titled ''Eden's Edge.''
 As a career art seems more realistic to graduate art students than ever before, said Patrick Painter, who owns a gallery in Santa Monica. ''Students graduate here with a feeling they can live in L.A. and make a living in LA.,'' he said. ''L.A. will never be more important than New York, but it will be equal.''
 And naturally some artists adopt Los Angeles precisely because it is not New York. Max Jansons, a Los Angeles painter who is a New York native, graduated from U.C.L.A., then returned to Columbia University for a master's degree. He now lives in Santa Monica. 
 ''I like having time to be in my studio without being surrounded by tons of different voices and seeing all these different shows and being part of that activity,'' Mr. Jansons said. ''There's something very focused about your time here in the studio that I never really had in New York when I was there.'' 
 Whereas New York presents more opportunities for the chance meetings with other artists that stimulate discussion, he added, it is easier to isolate oneself and get work done in Los Angeles. ''Here you really have to make an effort to be part of something,'' he said.
 In large part that is because of the sprawl that so defines Los Angeles, said Michael Brand, who came here in 2005 as director of the Getty Museum. ''The thing the city lacks is public transport and ease of access,'' he said. ''That, I think, is a major problem, unlike London, unlike New York, where you can just quickly go to other sorts of cultural organizations. It means people like myself and my colleagues in the end find it harder to maintain a face-to-face dialogue. You've got to plan ahead, and at a minimum it's an afternoon.''
 What Angelenos get in the trade of course is physical space. Sherin Guirguis, an artist who was born in Egypt and received her master's degree from the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, said she chose Los Angeles by necessity. 
 ''I couldn't afford to live in New York no matter what, not even in Brooklyn,'' she said. ''I'm able to have space here. I make very large work, and it's very expensive to make.''
 Meanwhile the path forged by Mr. Baldessari and others has brought a legitimacy to artists here, one that many people believe will be followed by increasing levels of financial aid. 
 ''L.A. has been the model for another American city having a spot in the art world,'' said Fredric Snitzer, the owner of a gallery in Miami who brought works by several of his artists to the ''Art LA'' show here in late January. 
 ''In the old days California artists were like they were on another planet,'' he said. ''In the last 20 years that has changed. There are fabulous artists here who have to be reckoned with.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, John Baldessari, a conceptual artist, says he no longer advises art students to go to New York after graduating. At right, visitors at the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles. Below, one of several art galleries along Washington Boulevard in Culver City. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)
(Photo by Hammer Museum)
(Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
Above, directions to an art gallery complex in Santa Monica. Below, the philanthropist Eli Broad, at left, with Michael Govan, director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. At right, the Eli and Edythe Broad Art Center at the University of California at Los Angeles. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
(Photo by Douglas Hill/U.C.L.A. via Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 28)
 (Photo by Lou Beach)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ART DEALERS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); HISTORY (73%); DANCERS (73%); FILM (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); CITIES (69%); STATISTICS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); COST OF LIVING (56%); CENSUS (54%) Art; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (87%) Edward Wyatt; Eli Broad

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (70%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



549 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: New Data, New Worry On Housing

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
FOR the first time in months, the Federal Reserve has signaled that the economy has cooled to the point that the central bank is as likely to lower interest rates as it is to raise them. One analyst anticipates further signs of economic weakness this week. 
 New reports on the housing market and consumer confidence ''are going to fall in line with recent trends and confirm the Fed's view that economic growth is going to be subpar, at least through the middle of the year, mainly because of weakness in housing,'' Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research, predicted.
A Bloomberg News poll of economists forecasts that sales of new homes in February, to be announced Monday, will rebound to an annual rate of 990,000 units, from 937,000 in January. But Mr. Yardeni says the estimate may be too optimistic. Prospective buyers have been thin on the ground, he said, because many parts of the country have not enjoyed house-hunting weather.
 ''I wouldn't be surprised if new-home sales are a bit weaker than expected,'' he said. ''It has been brutally cold, and that is not the time when people would want to be out looking for a home.''
 Housing plays a pivotal role in the economy because of its impact on the mood of consumers -- which is what homeowners become when they walk out the door. When they feel more secure about home values, they are inclined to spend more.
 A gauge of consumer sentiment, if not spending, will arrive Tuesday when the Conference Board issues its consumer confidence survey for March. The Bloomberg poll foresees a drop in the index to 109, from 112.5 in February. Mr. Yardeni also anticipates a weak number. If the housing market does not make consumers more sullen, he said, the weak stock market and rising gas prices might.
 With its statement last week, the Fed has all but eliminated the chance of a further rate increase in this cycle, he said. That convinced him that the Fed is on the side of investors, and it could put a floor under share prices.
 He recalled the ''Greenspan put,'' the term for the faith that investors had that Alan Greenspan, when he was the Fed chairman, would take the necessary steps to keep stocks from falling too far. His successor, Ben S. Bernanke, is taking steps to nurture the same confidence, in Mr. Yardeni's view.
 ''For the first time since Bernanke has been at the head of the Fed, we see what I would describe as a Bernanke put,'' he said. ''It shows that the Fed's heart is in the right place.''DATA WATCH -- The degree of risk on the other side of the ledger will emerge on Friday, when a measure of inflation called the core personal consumption expenditures deflator is announced. The Bloomberg poll calls for a 0.2 percent increase for February, down from a 0.3 percent increase a month earlier.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); BONDS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Housing; United States Economy

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



550 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: The Homeless Maze

 BODY:
Mayor Michael Bloomberg set a very ambitious goal when he said he would reduce the number of homeless by one third in five years. Halfway through the program, though, the ranks of the homeless have gone up considerably, with the number of families reaching a new high. 
 Many factors can be blamed, but some of the problems resulted from miscalculations by the city, which clearly underestimated the challenge and set unreasonable requirements for people seeking rent subsidies.
It is reassuring that Mr. Bloomberg and his homeless czar, Robert Hess, are vowing to try again. According to a study by the Coalition for the Homeless, the number of homeless families reached 9,250 this month, the most since the city began keeping track in 1982. Mr. Bloomberg, voicing his disappointment, warned the situation could worsen if the economy slows. 
 That makes it all the more imperative that New York pursue a change of course that addresses the real reasons why people can't find anywhere to live except the streets and the shelters.
 An analysis by the Pratt Center for Community Development tells the story. In the 10 neighborhoods where the majority of the city's homeless families come from, the number of families paying more than 50 percent of their income for rent grew by more than 30 percent, to nearly 114,000, between 2002 and 2005. Brad Lander, the center's director, says the big surprise is that there aren't even more families in the shelter system.
 A turnaround won't be easy, but the city can begin by addressing what most experts agree are serious shortcomings in the program called Housing Stability Plus, which was supposed to replace Section 8, the federal housing voucher program. The city made a mistake when it said that that only homeless people on welfare would qualify to get housing assistance. Welfare is often not a steady proposition. As many as 65 percent of families saw a disruption in welfare benefits, which cost them rental support. That in turn angered landlords who went unpaid during the disruptions.
 The unintended consequences of this policy were considerable. To keep roofs over the heads, families were motivated to stay on welfare, instead of finding work. The already depleted supply of housing available for subsidies, meanwhile, was diminished further -- by some 14 percent last year -- with many landlords wanting nothing further to do with the city program.
 One sensible alternative would be to use an income-based formula that calculates assistance as a percentage of earnings, without setting deadlines that send those still needing help back to the streets. The city might also consider providing at least some of the families with Section 8 vouchers, a policy it abandoned even though it helped bring down numbers in 2004.
 Housing Stability Plus failed to acknowledge a fundamental fact -- that thousands of working families, not only those on welfare, often face untenable pressures to keep a roof over their heads.
 While the cause of much homelessness among individuals is rooted in substance abuse or mental illness, for many families homelessness often comes down to simple dollars and cents. Most of these families are stable and intact, but do not earn enough to provide both housing and food for their children.
 No family should have to make that choice. The city needs to do better by them, finding a way to get them support for as long as necessary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); HOMELESSNESS (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Homeless Persons; Editorials

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Robert Hess

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



551 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; TAXES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Costs Drive Up School Budgets

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
SCHOOL boards in Westchester and on Long Island face big jumps in health care costs this year that will help force tax increases well above the rate of inflation, according to early numbers from budgets in the region. 
 In White Plains, for example, the bill for health insurance will grow 11 percent in 2007-8, according to the superintendent's budget.
''We purchase health services in the marketplace just like the private sector, and everyone is paying 10 to 13 percent more,'' said Linda S. Purvis, the assistant superintendent for business for the Scarsdale Public Schools.
 On top of salary and pensions costs that have recently been rising 5 to 6 percent in suburban districts, health care bills are driving tax increases that will easily outstrip inflation, even with the modest boost in state aid that Gov. Eliot Spitzer has proposed. Inflation has been about 3.1 percent in New York over the past year. 
 Westchester business administrators who have been comparing notes said proposed tax increases in tentative budgets were at least 6 percent, possibly higher. A survey of school business administrators by the Long Island Association, a business and civic group, found that the increases in Nassau and Suffolk were also 6 percent. 
 Boards in most districts are now going through budgets in public meetings, preparing for votes on May 15. Last year, when the average proposed tax increase was 7.6 percent in Westchester, voters approved 82 percent of budgets; on Long Island, the average proposed increase was 5.8 percent, and 84 percent of budgets were approved. 
 Some districts face a large increase in payments to the teachers' retirement system if they have not already provided for a 10 percent increase in the amount that must be set aside based on 2006-7 salaries. In White Plains, pension payments for teachers will go up more than 16 percent.
 ''We're looking at a fairly sizable increase in the tax rate of 8.34 percent,'' said Michelle Trataros, the school board president in White Plains. Tax grievances by commercial property owners have been steadily eroding the city's tax base, which helps to account for the big rate increase, she said.
 Teacher salaries, which in Westchester and on Long Island are among the highest in the nation, continue to rise rapidly. In most districts, they include both a cost-of-living raise and step raises given for each year's additional experience. Fred Seiler, the assistant superintendent for business of the White Plains Public Schools, said most districts in the suburbs had negotiated raises of 3 to 3 1/2 percent in cost of living, and an average of 2 1/2 percent in step raises.
 Mr. Spitzer has proposed large increases in state aid to some low-wealth districts for next year, but most suburban districts would get 3 percent or less -- not enough to dent taxes much, school board members said.
 But the governor has also proposed bigger rebates under the STAR program for school tax relief, which could more than erase any school tax increase. Homeowners, especially those making less than $80,000, have the prospect of an 80 percent increase in their STAR rebate. (The program allows homeowners to reduce some property taxes and reimburses school districts.) 
 The state aid and rebate programs are subject to approval by the Legislature.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WATCHING EXPENSES -- Linda Purvis, a Scarsdale assistant superintendent. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); BUDGETS (92%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (61%) Education and Schools; Property Taxes; Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Education and Schools; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; Westchester County (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



552 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: A Hostage Taken, a Ransom Paid (Again)

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
THE words, as always, come easier than the resolve. ''We don't negotiate with terrorists,'' Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman told reporters on Thursday. ''We don't advise others to do so as well.''
 He was denouncing the swap Italy made last week with the Taliban: five Taliban prisoners held in Afghan jails for an Italian reporter kidnapped in southern Afghanistan. The trade, officials around the globe warned, was wrong all around: It rewarded terror and encouraged more abductions. 
But steely conviction often melts away where hostages are concerned, and not just for Italy, which famously refused to negotiate in 1978 for the life of its kidnapped former prime minister, Aldo Moro, who was then killed by his abductors. 
 The reason is that kidnapping, as old as war itself, entangles the personal and the political, with real harm possible for hostage and politician alike. Now the problem spots are Iraq and Afghanistan, where soldiers roam the country along with less-protected reporters, aid workers, diplomats, builders and high-priced private security guards.
 But the dilemma can also be neatly framed by American experience: Did Jimmy Carter lose the presidency in 1980 because of the Iran hostage crisis? And how different would Ronald Reagan's presidency have been without the secret sale of arms to Iran to win the release of hostages in the Middle East?
 ''Kidnappings are more difficult for governments to deal with than murders,'' said Brian Michael Jenkins, an expert on kidnappings and political violence at the RAND Corporation. ''Because human life hangs in the balance, and because it appears that the government or the company or whoever is the target of the demands can do something. Of course, in the process the culpability shifts.''
 He added: ''What American presidents have learned is that hostage situations are politically very dangerous.''
 And so, whatever a country's official policy against negotiating with terrorists, the reality is another matter. Mostly, governments prefer to handle things quietly, with cash for ransom paid by local governments or the companies of the kidnapped workers.
 Some experts speculate, in fact, that the international uproar against Italy's action had less to do with the principle of not meeting a kidnapper's demand than the fact that it involved not cash but a public swap of prisoners. Unlike money, the prisoner swap was hard to hide. In fact, the kidnappers immediately declared it ''a victory for all the Taliban.''
 But Israel, the country most often forced to confront hostage situations, has also swapped prisoners regularly -- and has declared a willingness to do so now to free Cpl. Gilad Shalit, captured in Gaza last summer.
 It is worth noting that Jewish religious law recognizes the particular difficulties of hostage taking: It does not forbid paying ransom, but only one that exceeds the value of the transaction. And so in cases like that of Corporal Shalit, leading rabbis issue opinions about the worth of various possible exchanges. 
 But one of the most renowned cases in Jewish history showed how difficult such an evaluation really is: the 13th-century Rabbi Meir of Rothenburg was taken hostage by Rudolph I, the first German king of the Hapsburg dynasty. A huge sum reputedly was raised for his ransom, but Rabbi Meir refused to allow the transaction, saying it would only encourage other kidnappings of rabbis. He died in jail.
 Similarly, some Israelis argue that one of the largest prisoner swaps -- in 1985 in which three Israelis captured in Lebanon were traded for 1,150 people -- emboldened Palestinians to revolt two years later in the first intifada. Whatever the precedents, many experts say the actual deals are negotiated under enormous pressure and with minimal regard for what happens later. ''There is no theoretical basis,'' said Mark Heller, director of research at the Institute for National Security Studies in Israel. ''It's just a question of ad hoc decision-making by the government, which is a function of domestic pressure and public opposition. Even family pressure.''
 ''After every deal like this,'' he added, ''there is a kind of post facto analysis and everyone says it was a mistake and we shouldn't do it again. And we do it again.''
 Mr. Jenkins, the RAND analyst, noted that kidnappings for ransom in the United States are rare, partly because the police have been very successful in tracking down the kidnappers. Outside the United States, capture is rare, and so kidnappers hold most of the cards.
 He said, too, that sometimes kidnappers do not even care if they receive a ransom, further strengthening their position. In Iraq, kidnappings of foreigners often seem carried out merely to create an atmosphere of chaos, to scare away companies or countries and increase the cost of American projects there.
 And kidnapping these days carries a particularly horrific modern edge: the inevitable, grainy videotape of the pleading hostage, which jogs memories of other grainy videotapes in which hostages die badly. 
 ''You see the guy, you see his picture,'' said Edward Luttwak, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''You see his wife and children and brothers and cousins, and after a while you think you actually know him.''
 ''This makes it almost impossible for governments to deal with a crisis,'' he said. 
 Last week, after the journalist, Daniele Mastrogiacomo, was released, several experts noted with interest that it was Italy that provoked the storm of criticism. After all, the nation had long battled internal terror groups, as well as the Mafia, and did so largely with a stern hand and few concessions. 
 To some experts, the willingness of Prime Minister Romano Prodi to deal in Afghanistan -- and of his predecessor Silvio Berlusconi reportedly to pay ransoms in Iraq -- showed how weak support in Italy is for those ventures. 
 Many experts, too, mentioned Italy's resolve in not negotiating for Mr. Moro, who was kidnapped by the Communist Red Brigade. The nation won much praise at the time for not bending, but there have been many doubts since about whether his death was worth it -- and even whether Mr. Moro's political allies found it easier to leave him to his fate. 
 ''It is unhistorical to say that taking a rigid stance like that pays off,'' said Robert Katz, an American author in Italy who has written about the Moro case. ''Italy was the only country ever to try it completely. It was manipulated and never tried again.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Holding Firm -- Terrorists killed Aldo Moro, the former Italian prime minister, in 1978 after Italy refused to negotiate for his release. He was held hostage for two months before his body was found in a car. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (93%); HOSTAGE TAKING (93%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); MURDER (58%) Kidnapping; News and News Media; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Prisoners of War

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%) Taliban

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (55%) Ian Fisher; Daniele Mastrogiacomo; Romano (Pres) Prodi

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (96%); ITALY (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Italy; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



553 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: The General And the Housewife

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Gen. Pervez Musharraf is facing angry street demonstrations around the country in the most serious crisis of his presidency -- and that's partly because he picked a fight with a middle-class housewife who is proving tougher and shrewder than he is.
 This drama is playing out in extraordinary scenes on Pakistani streets: crowds of roly-poly lawyers in dark suits braving clouds of tear gas to demand that Mr. Musharraf resign -- or even be tried for treason. It's impossible to know whether the protests will lead to a democratic revolution that topples Mr. Musharraf, to a military crackdown, or to a political deal that causes the protests to fizzle. 
And behind it all is the saga of the general and the housewife.
 ''The nation is ready to rise up; there is a revolution behind me,'' says Amina Masood Janjua, a mother of three who has emerged as a nemesis of General Musharraf. Mrs. Janjua says she was a ''very timid person,'' uninvolved in politics and content to be ''queen of my house.'' But then two years ago, her husband disappeared, presumably kidnapped by government security agents.
 The government has regularly ''disappeared'' people it doesn't like, apparently keeping them in secret detention centers to be tortured and interrogated for months or years. Human rights groups count at least 400 such disappearances since 2002, when Mr. Musharraf began using the war on terror as cover to eliminate troublesome nationalists, religious activists and human rights organizers.
 Mrs. Janjua's husband, Masood Janjua, may have been picked up because of ties to a Muslim organization, but there is no indication he had broken any law. Mrs. Janjua says her family received a phone call from Mr. Musharraf's military secretary last year promising that her husband would be freed soon. But nothing happened, and officially the government knows nothing of his whereabouts.
 Terrified that her husband was being tortured, Mrs. Janjua began organizing other family members of the disappeared. They held a public demonstration -- but the police attacked the group and beat and publicly stripped Mrs. Janjua's 17-year-old son. As the police dragged him off, Mrs. Janjua's 11-year-old daughter screamed: ''You've taken my father; don't take my brother!'' He was freed that evening. The aim of the assault presumably was to warn Mrs. Janjua to be quiet -- just as relatives of other missing people have been warned that their loved ones will be harmed if they protest or speak to the press.
 One of the missing is Safdar Sarki, a Pakistani-American doctor and American citizen seized a year ago while campaigning for the rights of people in Sindh Province.
 ''I was crying today; I was thinking of him,'' his wife, Rukhsana, said by phone from California. Her voice breaking, she promised that if Pakistan would just release her husband, she would make him stop fighting for human rights. She added: ''My sons are asking every day, 'Where is Papa? Where is Papa? ' ''
 Likewise: Where is the U.S.? The Bush administration has stuck more solidly with Mr. Musharraf (''a solid friend'' is the current State Department formulation) than with its principles. President Bush needs to make clear that the U.S. sides with Pakistan's democratic future, not its autocratic past.
 That future is being shaped by Mrs. Janjua, who sued the government over the disappearances. To everyone's astonishment, the Pakistani Supreme Court took up the case and ordered the government to account for those who are missing.
 Perhaps partly as a result -- and also to prevent the Supreme Court from complicating his election-fixing plans -- Mr. Musharraf this month suspended the chief justice of the Supreme Court. That's what has set off nationwide outrage and protests.
 Ordinary Pakistanis seem increasingly fed up with the president's lies and thuggery. Mr. Musharraf's contributions to Pakistan are enormous -- he rescued Pakistan's economy, fostered 7 percent growth rates, promoted education and nurtured an expanding middle class. But those same accomplishments are now raising aspirations for genuine democracy rather than the sham he offers.
 The risk is that a replacement would be worse: Pakistan has been one of the world's worst-ruled nations over the last 50 years, and Mr. Musharraf is better than his predecessors. But if the Pakistani public demands better government, that is ultimately a bullish sign for Pakistan and a useful warning to other autocrats.
 And maybe the movement will bring Mrs. Janjua and Mrs. Sarki their husbands home again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); TORTURE (87%); RIOTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); TREASON (75%); LAWYERS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TERRORISM (64%); RELIGION (64%) Freedom and Human Rights; Demonstrations and Riots; Judges; Kidnapping; Courts; Security and Warning Systems; Politics and Government; United States International Relations

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (92%) Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush; Pervez (Pres) Musharraf; Amina Masood Janjua; Masood Janjua; Iftikhar Muhammad (Chief Justice) Chaudhry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%) Pakistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



554 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Warming Up on Capitol Hill

 BODY:
Al Gore held his first hearing on global warming about 25 years ago, when he was a member of the House of Representatives, and a quarter century later Congress seems to be listening to him. Apart from the usual dinosaurs -- James Inhofe, who took great glee in pointing out that Mr. Gore had a big house that used lots of energy, and Trent Lott, who dismissed the former vice president's ideas as ''garbage'' -- Mr. Gore received a strong welcome from the two Congressional committees that will frame any legislation to deal with the warming threat. 
 Legislating, of course, will be the hard part. But Mr. Gore's efforts to raise both public and Congressional awareness are likely to make that easier. As is his habit, Mr. Gore spoke in dramatic, almost apocalyptic terms, at one point demanding an ''immediate freeze'' in carbon dioxide emissions. This certainly overestimates America's capacity for rapid social and technological change in much the same way that his movie, ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' seemed on occasion to overstate how quickly we will see the consequences of climate change. 
As Mr. Gore concedes, he is more salesman than scientist. But most scientists acknowledge that he is absolutely right on the fundamentals: humans are artificially warming the world, the risks of inaction are great, the time frame for action is growing short and meaningful cuts in emissions will happen only if the United States takes the lead.
 An increasing number of business leaders and politicians outside Washington are moving his way. These include Republican governors like Arnold Schwarzenegger, major investment companies like Goldman Sachs, venture capitalists hoping to profit from cleaner technologies and even a few big power companies preparing for the day when they will have no choice but to reduce their emissions. 
 Congress is paying attention to this shift. Representative Henry Waxman of California has signed up 127 co-sponsors for a very tough bill he proposed last week that seeks to reduce United States greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent by midcentury, which is close to what Mr. Gore wants. When you consider that Mr. Gore and President Bill Clinton could not find five senators willing to ratify the far more modest 1997 Kyoto treaty -- which called for a mere 7 percent reduction below 1990 levels, with no further reductions scheduled after 2012 -- you get some idea of how far the debate has come.
 The next task will be to translate this new awareness into legislation capable not only of surviving the House but also of mustering a veto-proof 60 votes in the Senate. All of the bills -- there are now five -- start with the premise that forcing polluters to, in effect, pay a fee for every ton of carbon dioxide they emit will create powerful incentives for developing and deploying cleaner technologies.
 Setting up a system that fairly distributes the cost of reducing emissions across a giant economy -- without creating a bureaucratic nightmare -- will require great skill. And nobody, including repeat viewers of ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' has a real grip on what it will cost. Given the consequences of doing nothing, it's surely worth it, but Congress will have to be upfront about the numbers.
 Then there will be those who argue that it is pointless for America to go down this road if China and India will not come along. But that one is easy. The United States produces 25 percent of global emissions with only 5 percent of the population. If the world's biggest per capita emitter of carbon dioxide doesn't act, why should anyone else? 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Sunday about global warming gave the wrong number of votes needed to override a presidential veto in the Senate. That requires two-thirds of senators present and voting, not 60 senators.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VETO (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%) Weather; Editorials; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Vetoes (US); Law and Legislation

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); TRENT LOTT (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%) Al Gore; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



555 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Costs Drive Up School Budgets

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
SCHOOL boards on Long Island and in Westchester face big jumps in health care costs this year that will help force tax increases well above the rate of inflation, according to early numbers from budgets. 
 In the Sachem Central School District in Suffolk County, for example, the superintendent's budget projects the cost of medical insurance to increase 10.3 percent. In the Herricks Union Free School District in Nassau County, the tentative budget calls for a 9 percent increase in health insurance.
On top of salary and pension costs that have recently been advancing by 5 to 6 percent in suburban districts, health care bills are driving tax increases that will easily outstrip inflation, even with the modest boost in state aid that Gov. Eliot Spitzer has proposed. Inflation has been about 3.1 percent in New York over the past year. 
 A survey of school business administrators by the Long Island Association, a business and civic group, found that the average tax levy increase proposed in tentative budgets in Nassau and Suffolk was 6 percent.
 Boards in most districts are going through budgets now in public meetings, preparing for votes on May 15. Last year on Long Island, when the average proposed tax increase was 5.8 percent, voters approved 84 percent of the budgets. In 2005, in the wake of an embezzlement scandal in the Roslyn district, 37 percent of budgets on the Island were defeated.
 Some districts face a large increase in payments to the teachers' retirement system if they have not already provided for a 10 percent increase in the amount that must be set aside based on 2006-7 salaries.
 Teacher salaries, which on Long Island and in Westchester are among the highest in the nation, continue to rise rapidly. In most districts, they include both a cost-of-living raise and step raises given for each year's additional experience. Fred Seiler, the assistant superintendent for business of the White Plains Public Schools, said most districts in the suburbs had negotiated raises of 3 or 3 1/2 percent in cost of living, and an average of 2 1/2 percent in step raises.
 Mr. Spitzer has proposed large increases in state aid to some low-wealth districts for next year, but most suburban districts would get 3 percent or less -- not enough to dent taxes much, school board members said.
 But the governor has also proposed bigger rebates under the STAR program for school tax relief, which could more than erase any school tax increase. Homeowners, especially those making less than $80,000, have the prospect of an 80 percent increase in their STAR rebate. 
 In Suffolk, the average rebate would grow by $763, according to projections by Mr. Spitzer's office. The state aid and rebate programs are subject to approval by the Legislature.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (79%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (75%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); EMBEZZLEMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); SALES REBATES (58%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Westchester County (NY); Long Island (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



556 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; POSTINGS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: More People, More Stuff to Buy

BYLINE: By CLAIRE WILSON

 BODY:
THE arrival this summer of a Starbucks and a New York Sports Clubs fitness center will round off the amenities in a condominium that its creators are heralding as the first luxury doorman building to open its doors in Harlem Heights. In a neighborhood best known for restored brownstones, the 10-story 180-unit structure makes its presence felt. 
 Called the Langston, after the poet Langston Hughes, the building at 68 Bradhurst Avenue between 145th and 146th Streets will have a doorman, valet service, valet parking and 24-hour concierge service when the first residents start to move in this spring.
 There is still one more 14,000-square-foot retail space to fill, and David Picket, president of the Gotham Organization, which built the Langston in partnership with the Richman Group, says he is hoping to get a home-furnishings-related chain to take the space. 
 ''Something like a Janovic Plaza or a Door Store,'' said Mr. Picket, whose company was the developer of the successful Harlem USA complex on 125th Street. 
 The Starbucks and the sports club are the latest in a series of newcomers bringing services to an area whose residential population is growing in number and economic clout. A Duane Reade store and a Pathmark supermarket have come into the mix on West 145th Street, the main commercial drag serving the area. 
 Banks that have opened include Chase, Washington Mutual and Carver Federal Savings Bank, with a Bank of America branch being added this summer. Small restaurants and art galleries like the Sugarhill Java & Tea Lounge on West 145th Street and the Simmons Gallery on Edgecombe Avenue are two of a number of independently owned businesses also popping up in response to the increased population. 
 The fitness center in the Langston will measure 16,000 square feet, which is small for the chain. But John Epifanio, development manager for Town Sports International, parent company of New York Sports Clubs, believes the neighborhood has turned a corner. According to Mr. Epifanio, the company moves only into areas that it thinks will come around in a few years, and this part of Harlem is already almost there. 
 ''We are hitting it pretty close to being right,'' he said. 
 The Langston is the third new residential building in the immediate neighborhood in two years. At 145th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, the Bradhurst Carriage House Lofts, with eight condominiums priced from $890,000 to $1.295 million, went on the market last spring, and in 2005 the Related Companies completed a 128-unit subsidized building at 300 West 145th Street that is fully occupied. Three years before that, the Gotham Organization and the Richman Group opened the Hamilton, 77 units of moderate-income housing opposite the Langston on Bradhurst Avenue. 
 The Langston has 180 two- and three-bedroom apartments, each with two baths, and 13 three-bedroom, two-bath duplex penthouses with 1,165 square feet of terrace. Two-thirds of its units were reserved for qualifying moderate-income buyers when they went on the market last summer, and all of those have been sold.
 According to Mr. Picket of the Gotham Organization, the 30 units still available include a two-bedroom unit for $630,000 and a penthouse listed at $995,000. It has views of Yankee Stadium.

GRAPHIC: Photo: LUXURY CONDOS -- The Langston, at Bradhurst Avenue in Harlem Heights, will also include retail space. (Photo by Tina Fineberg for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); FITNESS CENTERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (87%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); WRITERS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); BANK BRANCHES (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%) Housing; Condominiums

COMPANY: CARVER BANCORP INC (66%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (54%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); TOWN SPORTS INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: CARV (NASDAQ) (66%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); CLUB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (66%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (66%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (53%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (53%)

PERSON: Claire Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007



557 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Republican Minority

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Remember how the 2004 election was supposed to have demonstrated, once and for all, that conservatism was the future of American politics? I do: early in 2005, some colleagues in the news media urged me, in effect, to give up. ''The election settled some things,'' I was told. 
 But at this point 2004 looks like an aberration, an election won with fear-and-smear tactics that have passed their sell-by date. Republicans no longer have a perceived edge over Democrats on national security -- and without that edge, they stand revealed as ideologues out of step with an increasingly liberal American public. 
Right now the talk of the political chattering classes is a report from the Pew Research Center showing a precipitous decline in Republican support. In 2002 equal numbers of Americans identified themselves as Republicans and Democrats, but since then the Democrats have opened up a 15-point advantage. 
 Part of the Republican collapse surely reflects public disgust with the Bush administration. The gap between the parties will probably get even wider when -- not if -- more and worse tales of corruption and abuse of power emerge.
 But polling data on the issues, from Pew and elsewhere, suggest that the G.O.P.'s problems lie as much with its ideology as with one man's disastrous reign.
 For the conservatives who run today's Republican Party are devoted, above all, to the proposition that government is always the problem, never the solution. For a while the American people seemed to agree; but lately they've concluded that sometimes government is the solution, after all, and they'd like to see more of it. 
 Consider, for example, the question of whether the government should provide fewer services in order to cut spending, or provide more services even if this requires higher spending. According to the American National Election Studies, in 1994, the year the Republicans began their 12-year control of Congress, those who favored smaller government had the edge, by 36 to 27. By 2004, however, those in favor of bigger government had a 43-to-20 lead.
 And public opinion seems to have taken a particularly strong turn in favor of universal health care. Gallup reports that 69 percent of the public believes that ''it is the responsibility of the federal government to make sure all Americans have health care coverage,'' up from 59 percent in 2000.
 The main force driving this shift to the left is probably rising income inequality. According to Pew, there has recently been a sharp increase in the percentage of Americans who agree with the statement that ''the rich get richer while the poor get poorer.'' Interestingly, the big increase in disgruntlement over rising inequality has come among the relatively well off -- those making more than $75,000 a year. 
 Indeed, even the relatively well off have good reason to feel left behind in today's economy, because the big income gains have been going to a tiny, super-rich minority. It's not surprising, under those circumstances, that most people favor a stronger safety net -- which they might need -- even at the expense of higher taxes, much of which could be paid by the ever-richer elite.
 And in the case of health care, there's also the fact that the traditional system of employer-based coverage is gradually disintegrating. It's no wonder, then, that a bit of socialized medicine is looking good to most Americans.
 So what does this say about the political outlook? It's difficult to make predictions, especially about the future. But at this point it looks as if we're seeing an emerging Republican minority. 
 After all, Democratic priorities -- in particular, on health care, where John Edwards has set the standard for all the candidates with a specific proposal to finance universal coverage with higher taxes on the rich -- seem to be more or less in line with what the public wants. 
 Republicans, on the other hand, are still wallowing in nostalgia -- nostalgia for the days when people thought they were heroic terrorism-fighters, nostalgia for the days when lots of Americans hated Big Government. 
 Many Republicans still imagine that what their party needs is a return to the conservative legacy of Ronald Reagan. It will probably take quite a while in the political wilderness before they take on board the message of Arnold Schwarzenegger's comeback in California -- which is that what they really need is a return to the moderate legacy of Dwight Eisenhower.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%) United States Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



558 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Hot Spectrum Draws Cash, And Ideals

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 25 

 BODY:
It is referred to as the last beachfront property in the wireless world -- a prized swath of spectrum that is about to be sold at federal auction. And it has touched off an intense lobbying effort pitting cellular companies against a variety of new players interested in the potential of a next-generation mobile Internet.
 The Federal Communications Commission will set the rules for the auction, possibly as soon as next month. Depending on that ruling, the spectrum could be used for voice services for cellular carriers, new frequencies for emergency responders, or a commercial high-speed broadband multimedia network.
Among those trying to influence the outcome are three of the nation's four largest cellular providers, rural and regional wireless carriers, cable and satellite television companies and a range of technology companies -- including Google and Yahoo. 
 Along with other wireless technology proposals, the auction could reshape the debate over who controls access to the networks that deliver digital content to consumers. Opening the door to more network competition nationally could have a tremendous economic impact.
 ''This offers the potential for a real game changer in broadband spectrum,'' said John M. R. Kneuer, assistant secretary for communications and information at the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, an arm of the Commerce Department. ''It can both generate new innovation and lower prices.''
 The airwaves in question are in the 700-megahertz band, a segment used until now for UHF television but freed up by the move to digital broadcasting. Unless Congress reverses itself, those frequencies are scheduled to be reclaimed by the government and reallocated for public safety and commercial broadband networks on Feb. 19, 2009.
 Mr. Kneuer points out that because the new band is at a lower frequency than today's cellular and digital wireless services, it has a far greater range as well as the ability to penetrate the walls of homes and office buildings more effectively. 
 That could enable a new entrant to build out a broadband service dedicated to mobile devices -- a sector considered to have greater growth potential than conventional voice services. This could be done quickly and relatively inexpensively with just a few transmission towers and then filled in with additional capacity as new customers join the network.
 ''This is the realization of a truly national wireless Internet,'' said Reed E. Hundt, a former F.C.C. chairman. 
 Last month Mr. Hundt launched a Washington-based organization called Frontline Wireless and filed a proposal with the F.C.C. to create an ''open access'' network intended to support both public safety services and the creation of a system to offer wholesale broadband network service. 
 Unlike the current practice of American cellular companies, which lock customers' handsets to a particular carrier, Mr. Hundt's network envisions a system that would let a consumer connect a device like an Apple iPhone or a Palm hand-held device upon purchasing the device at a store like Best Buy.
 Mr. Hundt said Frontline had begun building an investor group to take part in the auction, which could begin as early as this summer. Significantly, the company's first identified investor is K. Ram Shriram, an early Google investor and current board member, and managing partner of Sherpalo Ventures.
 Earlier this month Google also helped create a lobbying group called Alliance for 4-G America, with partners including Yahoo, EchoStar Communications, DirecTV, Intel and Skype, in an effort to influence the F.C.C.'s rule-making for the auction.
 Several industry executives and analysts said it was unlikely that Google or Yahoo would directly take part in bidding for the new wireless spectrum, for fear of antagonizing communications companies by competing directly with them. But both companies are intensely interested in persuading the F.C.C. not to give advantages to the wireless incumbents in the bidding process. 
 Google, Yahoo and other Internet companies are worried about the ability of large cable and telephone companies to restrict certain types of Internet traffic, or to give priority service to some content providers over others, possibly for a fee. Companies like AT&T and Verizon have responded that such measures might be necessary to protect their investments in broadband networks.
 Industry executives have said that Verizon Wireless or other cellular companies might be willing to spend billions of dollars for the spectrum simply to block competitors, or possibly for voice applications intended to help the national cellular companies compete more effectively against smaller regional and local cellular firms.
 Several analysts cautioned that upstart bidders might be hard pressed to compete against the incumbents, which have vast cash reserves. 
 ''Silicon Valley bidders have deep pockets, but it would be very outside-the-box and high-risk for them,'' said Kevin M. Roe, a telecommunications analyst at Roe Equity Research in New York. ''Not only do you need the money to buy the spectrum, but you have to build a network -- and that would be a gargantuan task that would take years with no guarantees they could catch up with the big four national operators.''
 A Verizon spokesman said the company was interested in the potential offered by the 700-megahertz frequencies but had not yet committed to enter any auction for the spectrum. The company executive also noted that it was still possible that legislation might emerge from Congress that would again delay the digital television and set back an auction date.
 But because the auction could generate as much as $10 billion to $30 billion for the United States Treasury, some policy analysts said they were concerned that the auction process might trump the broader impact that new wireless services or technologies might have on the economy.
 ''This spectrum could catalyze tremendous innovation,'' said Kevin Werbach, assistant professor of legal studies at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. ''However, if the auction process is focused on raising the most amount of money for the government, it might prove counterproductive for the larger economic interests of the country.''
 That may be particularly true for a related proposal recently put forward by a separate coalition also including Google, as well as Microsoft, Intel, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, and Royal Philips Electronics. Earlier this month, the group gave a prototype device to the F.C.C. that they said would be used to build a next-generation wireless network that would have greater range and better performance than the current generation of technology known as Wi-Fi. 
 The new service would fall within existing television bands, but would use smart radio techniques to avoid interfering with local television channels.
 ''We think this has the economic potential of the Wi-Fi industry or even more,'' said Scott Blake Harris, a Washington lawyer who represents the group.
 The regulatory situation is clouded by competing proposals for the use of the 700-megahertz band as well as a range of other frequencies. For example, Morgan O'Brien, a founder of Nextel, last year formed Cyren Call Communications, which petitioned the F.C.C. for an alternative use for that band for public safety services. While that proposal was rejected by the commission, Cyren Call is still trying to win Congressional support for the idea.
 Separately, last May, Silicon Valley-based M2Z Networks petitioned the F.C.C. for spectrum to build a freely available nationwide broadband network at the higher frequency of 2.155 gigahertz. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); BROADBAND (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); LOBBYING (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MOBILE MEDIA (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (75%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Auctions; Cellular Telephones; Computers and the Internet; Television

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS & INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%) Federal Communications Commission

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%)

PERSON: John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



559 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Ad Revenue Raises Tough Question for Newspapers

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
For newspapers, February was the cruelest month. So far.
 Revenue from advertising was in striking decline last month, compared with February a year ago, and were generally weaker than analysts had expected.
And while there was one piece of good news for the industry -- ad spending on newspaper Web sites rose -- many industry watchers were wondering whether the February declines were part of a short-term slump or whether they signal a deepening systemic problem. 
 ''I'm reluctant to say that a single data point is a trend,'' said Barry Parr, a media analyst at Jupiter Research. ''But those are scary numbers, especially when we're not in a recession.'' 
 At USA Today, the nation's biggest newspaper, ad revenue was down 14 percent this February, compared with February last year. Gannett, which owns USA Today and is the nation's biggest newspaper company, reported that its overall ad revenue declined 3.8 percent in February from February 2006.
 Ad revenue at The New York Times Company fell 6 percent overall, declining 7.5 percent at The New York Times; ad revenue at the company's New England Media Group, which includes The Boston Globe, was down 4 percent. At The Wall Street Journal, published by Dow Jones, it was off 10 percent.
 The Tribune Company, whose papers include The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune and The Baltimore Sun, reported losses of more than 5 percent. So did McClatchy, whose papers include The Miami Herald, The Sacramento Bee and The Lexington Herald-Leader in Kentucky.
 Even papers in smaller markets, which are shielded from some of the forces buffeting some of the bigger metro dailies, saw losses in February. Ad revenue for the publishing division of Media General, which owns The Tampa Tribune, The Richmond Times-Dispatch and The Winston-Salem Journal, were down 5.8 percent.
 Most of the numbers were worse than January's and came after a difficult year in which many newspapers continued to pare costs by laying off employees, shrinking the physical size of their print publications and reducing benefits. Several newspapers also tried raising revenue by accepting advertising in prominent spaces that they had long reserved for news.
 And still the numbers were bad. Collectively, the February sales were ''the worst group performance to date,'' Steven Barlow, an analyst at Prudential Equity Group, wrote to his clients.
 The newspaper companies blamed the declines largely on the continuing shift of classified advertisers from print to online, especially to mostly free sites like Craig's List. In some cases, particularly in Florida and California, they traced the weaknesses to volatile real estate markets. 
 Tampa, Fla., which is also recovering from a series of hurricanes, was hit particularly hard, with revenue from real estate ads plunging 44 percent compared with last February. Tampa's overall classified revenue was off 27 percent, with help wanted down 32 percent and automotive off 27 percent, according to Media General.
 Lauren Rich Fine, a media analyst for Merrill Lynch, cautioned in her analysis of McClatchy's February numbers not to ''overreact to just one month of poor performance.'' Nonetheless, she said, McClatchy's problems were ''just starting.'' She cited the stark comparison between California's hot real estate market last February, when revenue from classified real estate ads was up 48 percent, and its weaker market this February, when that revenue was down 20 percent.
 Mark Fratrik, an economist at BIA Financial Network, said the February results were ''not a blip on the screen.''
 ''It's fundamental, what's going on with newspapers,'' he said. ''The younger groups, the most desired demographics, are just not reading them. They aren't listening to traditional radio either, but I tell radio broadcasters that they're lucky not to be in newspapers.''
 Mirroring the slide in ad revenue is a long slow decline in circulation.
 Newspaper circulation nationally reached its peak in 1984, when there were 1,600 morning and afternoon paid dailies with a circulation of 63 million. With the rise of cable television and, later, the Internet, newspaper circulation began to decline. Today there are 1,450 paid dailies with a circulation of 53 million. The losses have accelerated over the last two years.
 While many newspapers still have healthy profit margins, their costs are up and ad revenue is down. 
 On the bright side, says the Newspaper Association of America, ad spending on newspaper Web sites jumped 31.5 percent last year compared with the year before, to $2.7 billion. 
 The bad news is that online spending accounted for only 5.4 percent of all newspaper ad expenditures in 2006, the association reported. And print revenue fell 3.7 percent in 2006, to $13.2 billion, from the year before.
 Online spending is projected to continue to grow, and many newspapers are investing more and more in their Web sites. But so far, the online revenue is too small to begin to compensate for the losses from print advertising.
 Mr. Parr, the Jupiter analyst, said that gap was going to force the industry to adapt to survive and that the February results were just a symptom of this larger struggle.
 ''There is absolutely no question that the next 10 years are going to be really bad for the newspaper business,'' he said. ''This is a time of wrenching change and chaos. All of our assumptions about newspapers are going to be changed. The format, the business model, the organization of newspapers have outlived their usefulness.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the decline of newspaper advertising revenues in February misstated the period in which print revenue declined 3.7 percent, to $13.2 billion. It was for the fourth quarter of 2006 compared with the same period in 2005 -- not for the full year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); HURRICANES (50%) Newspapers; Advertising and Marketing; Finances; Newspapers

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (93%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); SACRAMENTO BEE (54%); WINSTON-SALEM JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Usa Today; New York Times; Boston Globe; Tribune Co; Mcclatchy Co

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



560 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: A Rail System (and Patience) Stretched Thin in Chicago

BYLINE: By LIBBY SANDER

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 25 

 BODY:
The century-old elevated train system here is as much a city fixture as the towering skyline and the piercing blue waters of Lake Michigan.
 But deteriorating tracks and trains, chronic budget shortfalls and a region ever more dependent on rail service are forcing Chicagoans to confront the possibility that the system, commonly known as the El or the L, may be at a breaking point.
''We're living on borrowed time,'' said Frank Kruesi, the president of the Chicago Transit Authority, which runs the rail service. ''The fact is, there's no magic wand when we're looking at modernizing a system that's 100 years old in a very dense urban environment.'' 
 The El, with its 1,190 rail cars and 222 miles of track, is the rail component of the transit authority, the second-largest public transit system in the country after New York's. The C.T.A.'s trains and buses serve the city and 40 suburbs, logging 1.55 million rides daily. The El alone accounted for more than 195 million rides last year.
 Many neighborhoods have thrived in recent years in part because they attracted residents eager to take advantage of the easy access to downtown that the trains afforded, some riders say. But the rail system is splitting at the seams, having carried 31 million more riders in 2005 than in 1985 on a fleet of cars with an average age of 27 years. 
 ''I've been riding the El pretty much all my life, and I've never seen performance anywhere near this bad,'' Alexander Facklis, 37, a rider on the Blue Line, said during a recent morning commute when a stalled train slowed most service. ''There are delays every single day.''
 For years, the story of the El has been one of too little money and costly patchwork maintenance, transit experts say.
 Along with two other transit systems, Metra and Pace, which link Chicago to the suburbs by bus and by rail, the C.T.A. depends on a financing formula of fares and sales taxes that has not changed since 1983. The state auditor general has called the system's financial condition ''precarious.''
 The Regional Transportation Authority, which oversees the three transit agencies, is trying to persuade state lawmakers to approve a $10 billion infusion of state and local money over the next five years. The C.T.A. needs $5.8 billion to bring its system, including buses, into a state of good repair, officials say.
 ''We call this 'the year of decision,' '' said Stephen E. Schlickman, the executive director of the regional authority. The choice, Mr. Schlickman said, is between a ''world-class transit system'' and an economic downturn that, he predicted, a hobbled transit system would most likely bring about.
 The combination of slow zones, construction projects and packed rail cars has unleashed complaints from riders at community meetings and on blogs like C.T.A. Tattler, which refers to one of the most troubled routes, the Blue Line, as the ''Blues Line.''
 Jeff Gonzales, 40, sitting across the aisle from Mr. Facklis, said it used to take him 35 minutes to travel from his home in the Logan Square neighborhood to his job in the Loop. ''Now, it takes an hour and 10 minutes,'' he said.
 Not far from where Mr. Facklis's and Mr. Gonzales's train had ground to a halt, a derailment in a tunnel last July caused a smoky fire and forced passengers on a packed rush-hour train to evacuate below ground and crawl to safety. The derailment sent 152 people to the hospital and snarled commutes on trains and buses around the city for hours. 
 Commute times have since doubled along that line, riders say, as deteriorating ties on many stretches of track have forced trains to travel as slowly as 15 miles per hour in some spots. The El's slower trains prevent it from carrying as many passengers per hour as transit systems in Atlanta, Boston, New York, Philadelphia and the San Francisco Bay Area, according to a state performance audit released this month.
 Next month, work is set to begin on a $529.9 million expansion of the system's third-busiest rail line, the Brown Line, which winds through some of the city's most congested neighborhoods. Ridership on that line is up 83 percent since 1979, according to recent figures, and officials at the Chicago Transit Authority predict the overhaul will increase capacity by 33 percent.
 In the meantime, though, riders are bracing for more than two and a half years of track closings that could reduce the capacity of already packed trains by as much as 40 percent at peak travel times. 
 But transit officials say the work is a necessary evil. Without it, the system would almost certainly fall into a chronic state of disrepair. 
 Helen Harrison, an administrative assistant who says the El is her only mode of transportation, faults Mayor Richard M. Daley for not paying enough attention to the problems. Ms. Harrison, 50, said she wondered how the transit system would handle an influx of tourists should Chicago win a bid for the 2016 Summer Olympics, a dream of Mr. Daley's. (The city is currently competing with Los Angeles to become the United States' bidder for the Games.)
 ''Mayor Daley should concentrate his efforts on this rather than on the Olympics,'' Ms. Harrison said. 
 Mr. Daley, who by law appoints several members of the C.T.A.'s oversight board, has said that luring the Olympics to Chicago could draw more federal money to assist with long-term upgrades to the system.
 But for some, coping with the immediate future is more pressing. 
 ''The notion that we're supposed to prepare for a doubling of our commute time for the next two and a half years is so laughable to me I haven't been able to get my arms around it,'' said Peter Skosey, a transit expert with the Metropolitan Planning Council, a nonprofit advocacy group. ''I'm going to make sure my bike tires are inflated.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about deterioration in Chicago's elevated train system misstated the timing of expansion work on the Brown Line. The work on the $529.9 million expansion began in 2004; it is not set to begin next month. (Some track closures and other construction are planned for next month.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: The El has been undergoing patchwork maintenance as ridership has risen, tracks have deteriorated and financing has been limited.
 Riders of the El system in Chicago transferring between the Red Line and the Brown Line, which serves some of the city's most congested areas. (Photographs by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LAKES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (73%); SUBURBS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SALES TAX (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Transit Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Light Rail Systems; Buses

PERSON: Libby Sander

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



561 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: India Attracts Universities From the U.S.

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: CHENNAI, India 

 BODY:
It was an unusual university entrance interview. 
 Late one recent evening here in steamy southern India, Vijay Muddana sat in a mercilessly air-conditioned room, leaning forward in his chair and talking to the wall. There, projected on a screen via videoconferencing equipment, were administrators from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, where an early morning snowstorm had caused a power failure, delaying the interviews by an hour. The Indians found it funny that even in Pittsburgh, there were power failures.
Mr. Muddana, 21, was among a dozen ambitious young Indians hoping to get a graduate degree in information technology offered jointly by Carnegie Mellon and a small private college here.
 The exchange was one of the many ways in which American universities, eager to expand to markets abroad, are training their sights on India. Some 40 percent of the population is under 18, and a scarcity of higher education opportunities is frequently cited as a potential hurdle to economic progress. 
 The American universities are just testing the waters, because the law here is still vague on how foreign educational institutions can operate. But that may soon change. 
 [The Bush administration's envoy for public diplomacy, Karen P. Hughes, is visiting India this week with a half-dozen American university presidents to promote Brand America in Indian education. The United States wants an easing of rules under a draft law on foreign investment in Indian education, which is to be introduced in Parliament in April.]
 If the law is approved, foreign institutions would be exempt from strict rules that currently apply to all government-accredited universities in India on fees, staff salaries and curriculums. The government has already proposed setting up an expert committee to review the standards and reputation of foreign universities that want to establish independent campuses here.
 The growing American interest in Indian education reflects a confluence of trends. It comes as American universities are trying to expand their global reach in general, and discovering India's economic rise in particular. It also reflects the need for India to close its gaping demand for higher education.
 Among Indians ages 18 to 24, only 7 percent enter a university, according to the National Knowledge Commission, which advises the prime minister's office on higher education. To roughly double that percentage -- effectively bringing it up to par with the rest of Asia -- the commission recommends the creation of 1,500 colleges and universities over the next several years. India's public universities are often woefully underfinanced and strike-prone.
 Indians are already voting with their feet: the commission estimates that 160,000 Indians are studying abroad, spending an estimated $4 billion a year. Indians and Chinese make up the largest number of foreign students in the United States.
 Madeleine Green, vice president for international initiatives at the American Council on Education, calls India ''the next frontier'' for American institutions, many of which have already set up base in China. 
 ''The pull factor is the interest of India and the opportunity that India now presents,'' she said. ''The push is from American institutions saying, 'There's a world out there and we need to discover it. It'll make our grads more competitive.' It's part of their push to internationalize.''
 At the moment, however, instead of setting up satellite campuses as was done in China, Singapore or Qatar, most American institutions are opting to join hands with existing Indian institutions.
 Columbia Business School, for instance, started a student exchange program earlier this year with the Indian Institute of Management at Ahmedabad. The institutions teamed up to write case materials devised to teach American students about doing business in India. 
 ''For us it's market access; for them it's access to a bigger business school,'' said R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of Columbia Business School.
 Columbia is the latest of several foreign business schools to tie up with the Ahmedabad campus, reflecting what its director, Bakul Dholakia, sees as a growing appetite to train future executives about India. ''Companies out there need managers now who have a unique Asian perspective,'' he said.
 The Americanization of Indian education is following a variety of approaches. Champlain College, based in Burlington, Vt., runs a satellite campus in Mumbai that offers degrees in one of three career-oriented subjects that college administrators have found to be attractive to Indians: business, hospitality industry management and software engineering. A 2005 study commissioned by the government found at least 131 foreign educational institutions operating in India at the time, a vast majority offering vocational courses. 
 However, Champlain's degrees are not recognized by the Indian government, something that is still typical here. One government official who looks after private education estimated that at least 100,000 students graduated from entirely unaccredited private institutions. The study found that students did not consider unaccredited college degrees to be a hindrance to getting jobs in the private sector. 
 California State University, Long Beach, has agreed to help start American-style, four-year degree programs at state-run Lucknow University in northern India. Its vice chancellor, R. P. Singh, said the California institution would help draft the curriculum and train faculty.
 Cornell University, whose president is among the American university officials visiting India in recent months, is seeking to expand research collaborations, particularly in agriculture and public health. 
 Rice University envisions faculty and student exchanges, particularly in technology. ''What's in it for us is opportunities for our students, opportunities for our faculty in terms of research collaboration,'' said David Leebron, the university president, who was in India in February. ''At this stage we think we are best served by developing partnerships with Indian institutions.''
 For its part, Carnegie Mellon offers its degree in partnership with a small private institution here, the Shri Shiv Shankar Nadar College of Engineering. Most of the course work is done at relatively inexpensive rates here in India, followed by six months in Pittsburgh, at the end of which students graduate with a Carnegie Mellon degree.
 The arrangement circumvents most of the usual Indian government restrictions. The curriculum is devised in partnership with Carnegie Mellon, and students are chosen jointly by faculty from both schools. 
 There are no affirmative action requirements for student admissions, as there are in accredited colleges. Fees are not regulated by the state. It is expensive by Indian standards, though nearly all of the students are subsidized by scholarships financed by Shiv Nadar, the college's founder and chief executive of HCL Technologies, one of India's leading technology companies.
 The applicants on the recent evening in Chennai were eager to please the gatekeepers from Pittsburgh. They addressed them politely with a series of ''yes, sirs.'' Asked what they could contribute to Carnegie Mellon, some of them became flummoxed. One young man said he wanted to develop software designed for the ''global citizen,'' by which he meant a way to transfer money across continents using a mobile phone.
 Mr. Muddana, who had a bachelor's degree in information technology and had spent the past eight months as a software developer for an Indian firm, said he saw the program as a cost-effective ticket to an American degree and a chanceto work for a few years in the United States.
 His father, he said, failed to grasp his ambitions. Why would he quit a secure, well-paying job to go back to school, his father wanted to know. Mr. Muddana said his father taught at a government school in a rural district in neighboring Andhra Pradesh State. He earns today roughly what his son makes fresh out of college. Mr. Muddana said his father was bewildered by his dreams and by how much it would cost to get a master's degree.
 ''He's presently thinking only of the investment,'' Mr. Muddana said, ''not the outcome.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about efforts by American universities to expand to India and other countries misstated the name of an Indian educational institution that is in a partnership with Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh to offer students a Carnegie Mellon degree. It is the Sri Sivasubramaniya Nadar School of Advanced Software Engineering -- not the Shri Shiv Shankar Nadar College of Engineering.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vijay Muddana, left, interviewed in Chennai, via videoconference with Carnegie Mellon officials in February. (Photo by Tomas Munita for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ACCREDITATION (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); TRENDS (73%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); POWER FAILURES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); APPROVALS (64%) Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; Wages and Salaries; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); SOUTH INDIA (92%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%) India; China; Singapore; Qatar

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



562 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-11U.S. Envoy Says He Held Talks With Iraqi InsurgentsThe senior American envoy in Iraq, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, said he held talks last year with men he believed represented major insurgent groups in a drive to bring militant Sunni Arabs into politics. He is the first American official to publicly acknowledge holding such talks. A1U.S. Colleges Market to IndiaAmerican universities, eager to expand to markets abroad, are training their sights on India, where 40 percent of the population is under 18, and a scarcity of higher education opportunities is frequently cited as a hurdle to economic progress. A10Political Arrests in PakistanThe police detained hundreds of political opposition members in an attempt to thwart nationwide protests planned to denounce Gen. 
Pervez Musharraf's suspension of the chief justice, opposition leaders said. A9 European Union Turns 50Fifty years after its foundation was set in Rome as a trading bloc for six countries, the European Union marked a midlife milestone in Berlin with all-night parties, a laid-back street festival and a fervent plea for renewal by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. A3 Obstacles in Cricket InquiryThe Jamaican police said that their investigation into the death the Pakistani cricket coach killed after his team lost a World Cup match, was complicated by the fact that many potential witnesses had already left Jamaica. A10 NATIONAL A12-19 Republicans Seek Balance In Forging Iraq StrategyRepublicans find themselves searching for balance as they juggle three tasks: responding to their constituents' frustrations, resisting the demands of antiwar Democrats and not entirely abandoning the White House. A1Tasks of an Inspector GeneralAs the inspector general at the Justice Department, Glenn A. Fine has confronted agency colleagues time and time again with their failings. Now, his office is examining the role of Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales and other officials in the dismissal of eight United States attorneys. A17EDUCATIONMove to Extend the School DaySchool districts are moving to lengthen the school day at struggling schools, prompted by test results suggesting that more than 10,000 schools will probably be failing next year. A1SCIENCE/HEALTHStudy on Children in Day CareA report on American child care has found that keeping a preschooler in a day care center for a year or more increased the likelihood that the child would become disruptive in class. A14 NEW YORK/REGION B1-5 New York Racing Franchise Draws Strong InterestNew York's troubled but still highly lucrative thoroughbred horse racing franchise has attracted a frenzy of interest this year from major gambling and racing companies and their well-connected lobbyists, who are sparing little expense in their quests to become the official bookie of New York State. B1Money Woes for Bus SystemThe Long Island Bus system can be a lifeline for the growing number of commuters who live in New York City and work in Nassau and Suffolk Counties. But long waits and crowding could get worse if the system's $4 million deficit is not filled by July. B1New Jersey Senate TurnoverThe New Jersey Senate is about to lose more than a quarter of its members, including the longest-serving legislator in the state's history. Though the Legislature's upper chamber is not expected to see any drastic change in the Democrats' slim majority, there is bound to be a change in the way the Senate goes about its business. B1BUSINESS DAY C1-10Games for the BlackBerryGameloft, maker of games for cellphones, plans to announce that it is bringing its mobile games to the BlackBerry in hopes of grabbing a chunk of the device's expanding market. C4Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A20-21Editorials: The Hamas conundrum; of Senate snails and scriveners; a disputed fee; Mr. Puck's good idea.Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.Bridge E4Crossword E6Metro Diary B2TV Listings E8Weather A18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); POLITICS (77%); LOBBYING (75%); CHILDREN (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); WITNESSES (74%); CRICKET (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); HORSES (71%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (64%); HORSE RACING (63%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: ALBERTO GONZALES (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAMAICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



563 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The Album, a Commodity in Disfavor; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: With CD Sales Falling, Labels Seek New Deals With Apple

BYLINE: By JEFF LEEDS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 25 

 BODY:
Now that the three young women in Candy Hill, a glossy rap and R&B trio, have signed a record contract, they are hoping for stardom. On the schedule: shooting a music video and visiting radio stations to talk up their music.
 But the women do not have a CD to promote. Universal/Republic Records, their label, signed Candy Hill to record two songs, not a complete album.
 ''If we get two songs out, we get a shot,'' said Vatana Shaw, 20, who formed the trio four years ago, ''Only true fans are buying full albums. Most people don't really do that anymore.''
 To the regret of music labels everywhere, she is right: fans are buying fewer and fewer full albums. In the shift from CDs to digital music, buyers can now pick the individual songs they like without having to pay upward of $10 for an album. 
 Last year, digital singles outsold plastic CD's for the first time. So far this year, sales of digital songs have risen 54 percent, to roughly 189 million units, according to data from Nielsen SoundScan. Digital album sales are rising at a slightly faster pace, but buyers of digital music are purchasing singles over albums by a margin of 19 to 1. 
 Because of this shift in listener preferences -- a trend reflected everywhere from blogs posting select MP3s to reviews of singles in Rolling Stone -- record labels are coming to grips with the loss of the album as their main product and chief moneymaker. 
 In response, labels are re-examining everything from their marketing practices to their contracts. One result is that offers are cropping up for artists like Candy Hill to record only ring tones or a clutch of singles, according to talent managers and lawyers.
 At the same time, the industry is straining to shore up the album as long as possible, in part by prodding listeners who buy one song to purchase the rest of a collection. Apple, in consultation with several labels, has been planning to offer iTunes users credit for songs they have already purchased if they then choose to buy the associated album in a certain period of time, according to people involved in the negotiations. (Under Apple's current practice, customers who buy a song and then the related album effectively pay for the song twice). 
 But some analysts say they doubt that such promotions can reverse the trend. 
 ''I think the album is going to die,'' said Aram Sinnreich, managing partner at Radar Research, a media consulting firm based in Los Angeles. ''Consumers are listening to play lists,'' or mixes of single songs from an assortment of different artists. ''Consumers who have had iPods since they were in the single digits are going to increasingly gravitate toward artists who embrace that.'' 
 All this comes as the industry's long sales slide has been accelerating. Sales of albums, in either disc or digital form, have dropped more than 16 percent so far this year, a slide that executives attribute to an unusually weak release schedule and shrinking retail floor space for music. Even though sales of individual songs -- sold principally through iTunes -- are rising, it has not been nearly enough to compensate. 
 Many music executives dispute the idea that the album will disappear. In particular, they say, fans of jazz, classical, opera and certain rock (bands like Radiohead and Tool) will demand album-length listening experiences for many years to come. But for other genres -- including some strains of pop music, rap, R&B and much of country -- where sales success is seen as closely tied to radio air play of singles, the album may be entering its twilight.
 ''For some genres and some artists, having an album-centric plan will be a thing of the past,'' said Jeff Kempler, chief operating officer of EMI's Capitol Music Group. While the traditional album provides value to fans, he said, ''perpetuating a business model that fixates on a particular packaged product configuration is inimical to what the Internet enables, and it's inimical to what many consumers have clearly voted for.''
 Another solution being debated in the industry would transform record labels into de facto fan clubs. Companies including the 
 Warner Music Group and the EMI Group have been considering a system in which fans would pay a fee, perhaps monthly, to ''subscribe'' to their favorite artists and receive a series of recordings, videos and other products spaced over time.
 Executives maintain that they must establish more lasting connections with fans who may well lose interest if forced to wait two years or more before their favorite artist releases new music.
 A decade ago, the music industry had all but stopped selling music in individual units. But now, four years after Apple introduced its iTunes service -- selling singles for 99 cents apiece and full albums typically for $9.99 -- individual songs account for roughly two-thirds of all music sales volume in the United States. And that does not count purchases of music in other, bite-size forms like ring tones, which have sold more than 54 million units so far this year, according to Nielsen data.
 One of the biggest reasons for the shift, analysts say, is that consumers -- empowered to cherry-pick -- are forgoing album purchases after years of paying for complete CD's with too few songs they like. There are still cases where full albums succeed -- the Red Hot Chili Peppers' double-CD ''Stadium Arcadium,'' with a weighty 28 tracks, has sold almost two million copies. But the overall pie is shrinking. 
 In some ways, the current climate recalls the 1950s and to some extent, the 60s, when many popular acts sold more singles than albums. It took greatly influential works like The Beatles' ''Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band'' and the Beach Boys' ''Pet Sounds'' to turn the album into pop music's medium of choice. 
 But the music industry's cost structure is far higher than it was when Bob Dylan picked up an electric guitar. Today's costs -- from television ads and music videos to hefty executive salaries -- are still built on blockbuster albums. 
 Hence the emergence of scaled-back deals with acts like Candy Hill. Labels have signed new performers to singles deals before, typically to release what they viewed as ephemeral or novelty hits. Now, executives at Universal say, such arrangements will become more common for even quality acts because the single itself is the end product. 
 With Candy Hill, Universal paid a relatively small advance -- described as being in ''five figures'' -- to cover recording expenses. Ms. Shaw, who formed the group with Casha Darjean and Ociris Gomez, said the members had kept their day jobs working at an insurance company and doing other vocal work to be able to pay the rent at the house where they live together. 
 If one of their songs turns into a big hit, they hope to release a full album, and to tap other income sources, like touring and merchandise sales.
 But turning a song into a hit does not appear to be getting any easier.
 Ron Shapiro, an artist manager and former president of Atlantic Records, asked, ''What are the Las Vegas odds of constantly having a 'Bad Day?' '' -- referring to a tune by the singer Daniel Powter that sold more than two million copies after it was used on ''American Idol.''
 While music labels labor to build careers for artists that are suited for albums, he added, ''You have to create an almost hysterical pace to find hits to sell as digital downloads and ring tones that everybody's going to want. It's scary.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Monday, with an article about the shift by consumers to digital music from CDs, misstated the name of the band that had signed a deal to record two songs rather than a full album. It is Candy Hill, not Cherry Hill.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Acts like Cherry Hill -- made up of Vatana Shaw, seated
Casha Darjean, standing left
and Ociris Gomez -- face a new music economics. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); MUSIC (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); WOMEN (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RAP MUSIC (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (77%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%) Music; Consumer Behavior; Computers and the Internet; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Sales; Software

COMPANY: APPLE INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc; Nielsen Soundscan

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (86%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (86%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (86%)

PERSON: Jeff Leeds

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



564 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Revising Mortgage Rules

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat of New York, said yesterday that he favored an overhaul of federal mortgage regulations, citing widespread concern about the surge in defaults and foreclosures involving subprime mortgages, risky home loans made to people with weak credit. Citing data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Census Bureau, Mr. Schumer said that about 91,000 households in New York State, including 53,000 in the New York City metropolitan area, were at risk of foreclosure by the end of 2008, as interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgages are reset. At a hearing on Thursday, members of the Senate Banking Committee criticized the Federal Reserve for failing to curb mortgage lending abuses. The chairman, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, said that new legislation might not be needed and that excesses could be addressed under existing regulations. SEWELL CHAN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING (88%); CITIES (86%); CENSUS (85%); LEGISLATION (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%) Housing; Mortgages; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Foreclosures

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (90%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



565 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Iran to Limit Cooperation With Nuclear Inspectors

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
The government of Iran yesterday denounced as illegal a sanctions package approved unanimously over the weekend by the United Nations Security Council, and in retaliation announced that it would limit cooperation with the United Nations' nuclear oversight agency.
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad issued a defiant statement that ''Iran's enrichment of uranium is a legal issue,'' maintaining that his nation's nuclear program was intended solely for energy production.
In contrast, he said, the Security Council's vote on Saturday imposing new sanctions on Iranian arms exports, the state-owned Bank Sepah and the Revolutionary Guard Corps ''is not legal.'' 
 ''We are not after an atomic bomb because it is not useful and our religion does not allow us to have it,'' he said in statements posted on his Web site, www.president.ir/en/ 
 A spokesman for the government, Gholamhossein Elham, said on state television that Iran would restrict its cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency in response to the sanctions vote. ''After this illegal resolution was passed against Iran last night, it forced the government to act based on Parliament's decision regarding the cooperation level with the agency and suspend parts of its activities with the agency,'' Mr. Elham said.
 In the past, Iran has cut back on its cooperation with the inspectors of the International Atomic Energy Agency in retaliation for actions meant to press it into curbing its nuclear efforts. The cutbacks have made it hard to assess the nuclear progress of Iran, including its ability to make fuel for a nuclear bomb.
 The cutback Iran announced yesterday means that it would no longer provide early information to the agency about the design of new facilities that are capable of making atomic fuel.
 David Albright, a former United Nations weapons inspector and the president of the Institute for Science and International Security, a private group in Washington that tracks nuclear weapons, said the cooperation cutback could make it easier for Iran to build clandestine plants meant to enrich uranium for nuclear arms.
 ''To me, it's a serious retreat,'' he said in an interview. ''They could build a backup centrifuge facility and not tell the I.A.E.A. It creates a situation where Iran could build a centrifuge facility in secret,'' in theory keeping it safe from attacks by the United States or Israel.
 But a European diplomat who closely follows the I.A.E.A.'s work said, ''For now, it's not going to have much of an impact.'' 
 ''It sounds tough,'' he added, but in theory it will only make a difference in the future if Iran chooses to push ahead with the construction of clandestine fuel plants.
 A number of world leaders called on Iran yesterday to return to talks and consider a package of incentives to end its uranium enrichment program. Javier Solana, the foreign policy chief of the European Union, said in Berlin that he would reach out to Ali Larijani, Iran's nuclear negotiator, ''to see whether we can find a route to negotiations.''
 Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, appealed for renewed negotiations, and he urged Iran ''to urgently take the necessary steps to restore the international community's trust that its nuclear program is peaceful in nature.''
 Iran's foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, said in New York that his country would issue an official response to an offer by the United States and five other powers -- Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia -- to return to talks aimed at ending the stalemate over Iran's nuclear program. But he gave no indication that Iran would suspend its uranium enrichment, a prerequisite set by the other nations involved.
 Tensions with Iran also increased yesterday over its seizure of 15 British military personnel in waters off Iraq. Senior Iranian officials said the government was considering charging them with illegally entering its waters. Prime Minister Tony Blair denied that the navy personnel had been in Iranian waters and said that Iran should be aware that Britain considered the seizure of the sailors and marines a very serious act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); CENTRIFUGES (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons

COMPANY: BANK SEPAH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%) United Nations; Security Council (Un); International Atomic Energy Agency

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (78%); BAN KI-MOON (58%) Thom Shanker; William J Broad; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; David Albright; Ban Ki-Moon (Sec Gen)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iran; Iran; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



566 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Glare of Publicity Finds An Inspector General

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 23 

 BODY:
After Glenn A. Fine gave up a chance to play for the San Antonio Spurs of the National Basketball Association to accept a Rhodes scholarship in 1979, he stayed in shape as a member of Oxford University's basketball team. But the 5-foot-9 Mr. Fine, always eager for a challenge, also decided to try out boxing.
 ''A bunch of us went and watched, and he got his nose bloodied and everything,'' recalled Nancy-Ann DeParle, a fellow Rhodes scholar and an old friend. ''I think he actually won the match, but it wasn't pretty.''
That mixed verdict might serve as a motto for any successful inspector general, the pugilistic post Mr. Fine has held at the Justice Department since 2000. As the in-house watchdogs at every federal agency, the inspectors general have enormous power to expose government bungling and misconduct. But doing the job requires them to confront their agency colleagues and bosses, time after time, with the excruciating details of how they have failed. 
 Mr. Fine's report this month on the Federal Bureau of Investigation's mishandling of national security letters, which the bureau uses to obtain telephone and financial records, has contributed to calls for the resignation of Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales. 
 On Friday, Mr. Fine's office, along with the department's Office of Professional Responsibility, began to examine the role of Mr. Gonzales and other officials in the dismissal of eight United States attorneys.
 Mr. Gonzales and the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III, accepted the report on national security letters released on March 9 with the gritted-teeth public gratitude that routinely greets such official exposes in Washington. ''An excellent report,'' Mr. Mueller said, ''and I appreciate the work of the inspector general in conducting this review.'' 
 That is what Mr. Mueller, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Gonzales's predecessor, John Ashcroft, have found themselves saying repeatedly over the last five years, in response to Mr. Fine's reports on the Justice Department's wholesale roundup of Arab and Muslim immigrants after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks; on the F.B.I.'s failure to find two hijackers before the attacks; on its failure to act against Robert P. Hanssen long before the veteran agent was unmasked as a Russian spy; on the bureau's botched efforts to update its computer systems; on its backlog of untranslated tapes and documents from counterterrorist investigations; and on many other failures.
 ''You're part of the department, but you're also independent,'' Mr. Fine, a 51-year-old Harvard-educated lawyer, said in an interview. ''You have to recognize that you're not going to be popular. You have to be as fair and aggressive as you can and just accept that you're not going to please everyone.''
 Mr. Fine noted that his 400-person staff of criminal investigators, auditors and lawyers on occasion debunked accusations against the department. It found no improprieties in the F.B.I.'s interrogation of protesters before the Republican and Democratic conventions in 2004, for instance, and it cleared agents of accusations that they had deliberately assassinated a Puerto Rican independence activist, Filiberto Ojeda Rios, who was killed in a 2005 shootout.
 Only by being tough on real misdeeds can an inspector general maintain credibility, Mr. Fine said. ''If we had pulled our punches in the past, then people would not believe that a report clearing the F.B.I. or the department was the product of a thorough and independent review,'' he said.
 Last week, while members of both parties in the House and the Senate praised the inspector general and his report on national security letters, some questioned its conclusion that there was no evidence of ''intentional violations'' or ''criminal misconduct.''
 Pressed during the hearings, Mr. Fine acknowledged that his investigation had not sought to establish individual culpability. He said that the F.B.I. was dispatching auditors to all its field offices to examine the problems in more detail.
 But Caroline Fredrickson of the American Civil Liberties Union said that Mr. Mueller had already embraced the inspector general's finding of no criminal misconduct. ''Mueller's going to hang his hat on that,'' she said.
 Still, Ms. Fredrickson, director of the Washington legislative office of the A.C.L.U., said she had a high regard for Mr. Fine's work and an appreciation for the difficulty of the job that he, like other inspectors general, must perform. 
 ''You don't want people to think you're on a witch hunt,'' she said, since that would discourage department employees from telling investigators what they knew. ''But you don't want to fail in your mission to find the truth. It's quite a delicate balance.''
 Other inspectors general, too, have recently done striking work unearthing incompetence and wrongdoing. At the Interior Department, the inspector general's office has investigated the bungling of oil and gas leases and ethical lapses by J. Steven Griles, a former deputy secretary who pleaded guilty last week to charges of lying to a Senate panel. 
 At the Department of Education, investigators have taken on problems with student loans and the No Child Left Behind program. The Department of Homeland Security's inspector general has documented extensive waste and fraud in the response to Hurricane Katrina.
 The money recovered by the government's 62 federal inspectors general and their 11,800 staff members more than pays for their work, said Gregory H. Friedman, the Department of Energy inspector general, who is also vice chairman of the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency, the inspectors' umbrella group. Mr. Friedman said all the offices together last year cost $1.9 billion and collected $6.8 billion in fines, settlements and other recoveries.
 None has a higher profile than Mr. Fine, whose father was an antitrust lawyer at the Justice Department for 28 years. At Harvard, he was a magna cum laude economics graduate as well as a basketball standout, setting university records in assists and becoming the Spurs' 10th-round draft pick despite his modest stature. (Mr. Fine told a House committee this week that though he is only 5 feet 9 inches tall now, ''before I started this job as the I.G., I was 6-9.'')
 After Harvard Law School, Mr. Fine worked as a federal prosecutor and as a private labor lawyer before being recruited in 1995 by Michael R. Bromwich, then the Justice Department inspector general, who put him in charge of a new unit to handle complex investigations. Mr. Fine was nominated by President Bill Clinton for the top job in 2000 and was confirmed just weeks before President Bush took office.
 Noting the nonpartisan nature of his job, from which he can be removed only by the president, he keeps any political leanings well hidden. ''We've driven 20 hours together, and I don't even know if he ever voted for Bill Clinton,'' said Ms. DeParle, his friend and a former Clinton administration official.
 As inspector general, Mr. Bromwich said, ''You're making enemies every day.'' But Mr. Fine has compiled so solid a record, he said, his job is almost certainly safe. ''Even though Republicans and proponents of this administration must wince every time his reports come out, how could you justify trying to remove him?'' Mr. Bromwich said.
 These days, Mr. Fine, who is married to Beth Heifetz, a litigator in Washington, and who has two children, does not play much basketball. He said he loves to travel; the family drove a van last year to North Dakota, the only state Mr. Fine had never visited, to mark his 50th birthday. He rides a bike to the office most Sundays from his home in a Maryland suburb. 
 But since that one official appearance in the boxing ring at Oxford, he has kept his bouts metaphorical.
 ''That was it for me,'' Mr. Fine said. ''I retired undefeated.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenn A. Fine at a Senate hearing on national security letters. Of his job, he said, ''You have to recognize that you're not going to be popular.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MISCONDUCT (74%); ETHICS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); HIJACKING (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%) United States Attorneys; Biographical Information; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%) Justice Department 

PERSON: ALBERTO GONZALES (79%); NANCY-ANN DEPARLE (55%) Glenn A (Inspector Gen) Fine; Alberto R (Atty Gen) Gonzales; Scott Shane

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



567 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: In Fight Over Spitzer Tax Plan, It's Loophole vs. Incentive

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Executives of big companies doing business in New York knew they were in trouble as soon as Gov. Eliot Spitzer's budget director invoked the l-word.
 To balance the state budget, the governor's office has proposed closing what it says are loopholes that corporations have used to reduce their tax bills, in some cases for decades. Eliminating them would increase the state's corporate tax revenue by about $400 million a year, according to the governor's estimates.
But many business leaders say there are no loopholes to close. They argue that the governor is taking aim at established tax practices used as incentives to companies that operate in New York. 
 The business leaders also point out that Mr. Spitzer pledged not to raise taxes. Of course, he never said he would not tighten loopholes.
 Paul E. Francis, the governor's budget director, said closing loopholes that are used almost exclusively by a small group of corporations is ''good tax policy.'' Some people involved in budget negotiations in Albany said they believed that Gov. Spitzer might propose lowering the overall corporate tax rate -- now at 7.5 percent -- in a deal to tighten the loopholes. Mr. Francis declined to comment on that possibility.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other New York City officials have warned that the governor's proposals could hurt the city's robust economy. City business leaders also have been plotting their strategy.
 ''What I've heard is that no single change in the tax structure is going to cause a company to fold up its tent and leave New York,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, a coalition of large employers. ''But it's their judgment of what kind of tax policy and what business environment New York is going to have that drives those decisions.''
 Companies in New York City face state and city tax rates that together exceed 17 percent, the highest in the country. The practices that the Spitzer administration wants to alter or prohibit have helped reduce that tax bite. 
 Mr. Francis said many businesses had learned to exploit tax loopholes so well that they might be paying too little. He pointed to one bank that complained that the governor's proposals would more than double the taxes it pays the state. If that is true, Mr. Francis said, then some banks are using loopholes to reduce their state taxes to less than half of the 7.5 percent rate. Allowing them to do that is not fair, Mr. Francis said, because ''most corporate taxpayers in New York are companies that don't take advantage of these kinds of sophisticated tax-minimization techniques.''
 Though the changes would not apply to all companies, business leaders say they would affect the city's biggest employers. The proposed change that worries them the most would require those employers to file a combined tax return in New York for out-of-state subsidiaries that buy, sell or trade goods and services with each other. That could mean paying more in state taxes.
 The Spitzer administration estimated that such combined reports would bring in an additional $215 million annually, but members of the Partnership for New York City said that estimate was ''wildly low.''
 Until now, companies have not had to file combined reports to New York as long as these intercompany transactions were conducted at fair-market prices, not at steep discounts that may inflate the profits of sister companies in states where taxes are lower.
 Most states allow separate reporting of income by companies, as New York has. But 17 states, mostly in the West, use a different standard. They require combined reports for all companies that are part of a ''unitary'' business -- those with a shared purpose and ownership, like all the regional units of a national retail chain.
 Fearing that companies have evaded significant amounts of tax, more states have considered switching to a unitary approach, said Joseph Crosby, legislative director for the Council on State Taxation, which represents large corporations. The West Virginia Legislature has approved a switch, and Massachusetts is considering one, Mr. Crosby said.
 ''Every year we see half a dozen legislatures propose this, but it usually fails,'' Mr. Crosby said. ''It seems like there is some renewed interest now, and these cases may set the tone.''
 Officials of the Spitzer administration have said that the changes they are proposing would not amount to adoption of a unitary system, but business leaders disagree, saying that would be the effective result.
 The change would alter the business environment that has existed in New York for more than 60 years, said Peter L. Faber, chairman of the committee on taxation and public revenue at the Partnership for New York City.
 ''All the way back to 1945, New York has held out its refusal to adopt a unitary tax system as an inducement to headquarters companies to locate here,'' said Mr. Faber, who is senior counsel at the law firm McDermott Will & Emery.
 With this change, he said, ''you could have a company with an out-of-state subsidiary that has no operations in New York but sells to New York customers, and that company could be dragged into a New York tax return.''
 Corporate executives are concerned not only about the administrative burden of more complex tax filings in Albany, but also about the possibility that the state will claim they owe it considerably more than they have been paying. 
 Mr. Faber said the reporting change was less of a concern on Wall Street than among media, consumer products and real estate companies, among others.
 ''Of the proposed loophole closings, this one certainly had the broadest impact and was framed as having the worst potential implications for the economic development objectives of New York State,'' Ms. Wylde said.
 But Mr. Francis was unmoved by predictions that corporations would relocate -- which he called a ''red herring'' -- because of the reporting change. 
 ''The reality is that California hasn't done too badly, nor has the Western United States in attracting economic growth,'' Mr. Francis said.
 Ms. Wylde said she had heard complaints from some large media companies about another of the proposed loophole closings. That one would force companies to report income from some productions, like movies and TV shows, that are exempt from federal tax.
 The state estimated that it would take in about $30 million a year from that change, but the members of the Partnership for New York City said the additional revenue would be much higher, Ms. Wylde said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Eliot Spitzer, with Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson, left, and the state budget director, Paul E. Francis, after presenting his spending plan. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)Chart: ''Closing Loopholes''Gov. Eliot Spitzer's plan to close corporate tax loopholes could bring in about $400 million annually, according to his administration's calculations.Chart tracks the Amount of corporate taxes Governor Spitzer plans to recover since 2006.(Source by New York State Tax Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); GOVERNORS (93%); BUDGETS (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); CLOSINGS (72%); CITIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%) Taxation; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (94%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%) Paul E Francis; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007



568 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: After Early Losses, Wall St. Bounces Back

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street pared steep early losses yesterday to end narrowly mixed after a surprise drop in new-home sales for February set off concern that economic growth was slowing more than expected.
 The Commerce Department reported that sales of new single-family homes fell by 3.9 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 848,000. It was the slowest sales pace in nearly seven years and dimmed hopes for a rebound in the troubled housing market.
Major indexes were down throughout most of the session. Investors used the decline to buy some shares before the second quarter ends on Friday, analysts said. 
 ''The market is already worried more about economic growth than inflation, so I think you're going to see reactions like this,'' said Todd Salamone, director of trading at Schaeffer's Investment Research in Cincinnati.
 The Dow finished down 11.94 points, at 12,469.07, after dropping as much as 112 points during the day. Last week, the benchmark index posted a 370-point gain, its best weekly point rise in four years.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.39 points, to 1,437.50, and the Nasdaq composite index added 6.70 points, to 2,455.63. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.57, to 808.94.
 Investors are focused on a spate of economic data due to be released this week, including the Conference Board's consumer confidence survey today and the gross domestic product report tomorrow.
 The price of a barrel of light crude oil rose 63 cents, to $62.91, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude prices have risen steadily on continued tensions between Iran and the West after Iran's detention of British naval personnel. Recent declines in United States oil inventories also supported the market.
 Citigroup fell 18 cents, to $51.54, on reports that it might reduce its work force about 5 percent. The company has been under pressure to bolster earnings to keep rivals from eating into its global market share.
 Dell rose 79 cents, to $23.62, after a Goldman Sachs analyst said the computer maker should see benefits this year from its turnaround efforts.
 Walgreen, the drugstore chain, reported second-quarter profit that surpassed Wall Street projections on robust revenue from retail prescriptions. The stock fell 47 cents, to $47.30.
 Fiscal fourth-quarter profits at Tiffany remained essentially flat because of an impairment charge, but revenue rose 15 percent, to $986.4 million, coming in ahead of Wall Street's expectations. The stock rose 13 cents, to $45.63.
 Kimberly-Clark, the maker of consumer brands like Kleenex and Huggies, fell 5 cents, to $68.94, even though the company said it still expected to meet its full-year profit target.
 The Saudi Basic Industries Corporation is planning a bid worth up to $12 billion for General Electric's plastics unit, The Financial Times reported yesterday, and G.E. rose 18 cents, to $36.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about three to two on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 2.69 billion shares, up from 2.56 billion Friday.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 1006/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.60 percent, from 4.61 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.755	97.535	High Rate	 4.925	 4.875	Investment Rate	 5.070	 5.081	Low Rate	 4.890	 4.850	Median Rate	 4.905	 4.870	Total applied for	$51,868,244	$52,515,432	Accepted	$26,596,764	$21,105,112	Noncompetitive	$1,871,391	$1,688,068	Both issues are dated March 29, 2007. The three-month bills mature on June 28, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 27, 2007.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' tracks Treasury Bills, High rate at weekly auction since Dec. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); SALES FIGURES (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); COMPUTER MAKERS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: SAUDI BASIC INDUSTRIES CORP (60%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); KMB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (60%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (71%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



569 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Dropped 3.9% in February

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes unexpectedly fell in February, hitting their lowest level in nearly seven years, according to a report released on Monday.
 New-home sales slid 3.9 percent, to an annual rate of 848,000 units, the lowest since June 2000, from a downwardly revised pace of 882,000 in January, the Commerce Department said. Sales for November and December were revised down as well. 
It was the second consecutive monthly decline and the second consecutive month that sales came in lower than Wall Street expected. The consensus forecast had looked for sales to rise to a 985,000-unit pace.
 ''The drop in sales of new homes in February shows a very weak housing market and suggests that home construction will remain a drag on the economy for much of the year,'' said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis.
 The Fed, which held benchmark overnight borrowing costs steady at 5.25 percent at its policy meeting last week, also left its future policy options open by dropping an explicit reference to the possibility of pushing rates higher in the future.
 A separate report on Monday showed the downtrodden housing market weighing on investors' spirits. The UBS/Gallup Index of Investor Optimism fell to 78 in March, the lowest level since September, from 90 in February.
 Alex Beuzelin, a foreign exchange market analyst with Ruesch International in Washington, said the new-home sales data ''further clouds the economic outlook and provides greater traction to the idea that the Fed's next move will be an interest rate cut.''
 The sharp sales slowdown led to an increase in the number of homes on the market. At the current sales pace, it would take 8.1 months to clear the inventory of unsold homes, up from 7.3 months in January and the highest rate since January 1991.
 The report showed the median sales price of a new home rose 2.8 percent in February, to $250,000. But that was still off 0.3 percent from the year-earlier level.
 Last week, a real estate trade group reported a stronger-than-expected February for sales of existing homes, which represent 85 percent of the housing market.
 The sales pace of previously owned homes rose 3.9 percent last month, to an annual rate of 6.69 million units, the biggest gain since March 2004, the National Association of Realtors said on Friday.
 Still, foreclosures among subprime borrowers, those with weak credit, are likely to increase the inventory of homes and ''dampen our forecast'' for a recovery in the housing sector this year, the chief economist for the industry group said.
 The new-home sales report showed sales rose only in the West, where they increased 24.6 percent. In the Northeast, new-home sales fell 26.8 percent; they decreased 20 percent in the Midwest and 7 percent in the South.
 In a separate report, the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank said on Monday that its national activity index, a gauge of the economy, rose to 0.03 in February, from an upwardly revised negative 0.72 in January, bolstered mostly by strength in production indicators.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Feb. -- - 3.9%Jan. -- -15.8Dec. -- + 6.0(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (93%); SALES FIGURES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BONDS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); SUBPRIME LENDING (63%); TALKS & MEETINGS (52%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds; Public Opinion; United States Economy; Production; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Commerce Department; Ubs Ag; Gallup Organization; Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



570 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley to Sell Subprime Lender's Loans

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley said yesterday that it would auction $2.48 billion of residential mortgages from the troubled subprime lender New Century Financial.
 The New Century loans are collateral pledged to Morgan Stanley for a $2.5 billion credit line; about $2.48 billion of the line was used to make loans. 
At least two other large subprime lenders, Accredited Home Lenders Holding and Fremont General, announced agreements this month to sell subprime loans at a steep discount to raise cash.
 According to a public notice, Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital will auction a portfolio of about 13,200 loans originated by New Century, Home123 Corporation and other affiliates with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $2.48 billion.
 First-round bids for the loans are due Thursday, and the top three parties will be invited to submit final offers. Morgan Stanley reserves the right to enter its own bid in the final round.
 Securities backed by subprime mortgages, made to borrowers with damaged credit, have sunk in value in recent weeks as investors have grown worried about rising delinquencies and their potential impact on the broader American housing market. 
 New Century, based in Irvine, Calif., stopped making loans two weeks ago, and said it had less than $60 million in cash on hand. Many analysts have said the company appears on the brink of bankruptcy. At least four large subprime lenders have sought bankruptcy protection since late December.
 Some investors also fear that the subprime mortgage crisis could spread to higher-rated mortgages, or even other sectors, like autos.
 In a recent report, Standard & Poor's said that a slight increase in delinquent payments on subprime auto loans may be ''an initial trickle-down of the fallout from the subprime mortgage crisis.''
 Homeowners with subprime mortgages may face difficulty making payments on auto loans as interest rates on their adjustable-rate mortgages reset higher.
 Mark Risi, an S.& P. analyst, said, however, that the fallout from deterioration in the subprime mortgage industry might ultimately be limited for auto loans because a majority of subprime auto borrowers are renters, not homeowners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); ACCREDITATION (71%) Housing; Mortgages; Auctions; Interest Rates

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (91%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley; New Century Financial

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



571 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Council Considers Trial Period for Neighborhood Taxi Stands

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
In the television sitcom ''Taxi,'' the dispatcher used a radio to tell the cabdrivers where to pick up their next fares. That system started to change in 1982, when yellow-cab companies were permitted to transfer two-way radios to their nonyellow cars, to free up yellow cabs for street hails. And the system disappeared entirely in 1987, when radio-dispatched cabs were phased out.
 A 20-year-old division of labor -- yellow medallion cabs having the exclusive right to pick up passengers from the street and for-hire vehicles (including livery cabs, ''black cars'' and luxury limousines) having the exclusive right to take radio dispatches -- often makes it hard for people outside Manhattan to find a cab on short notice. This is a problem that may be worsening as economic development and residential growth penetrate neighborhoods throughout the city. 
A bill before the City Council would require the Taxi and Limousine Commission to install and operate 10 taxi stands in outlying neighborhoods for a three-year trial period. Under the proposal, passengers could wait at the stands; only yellow cabs would be allowed to make pickups.
 Supporters of the plan say it would make yellow cabs more available in places far from Manhattan.
 ''You have a better chance of seeing God than seeing a yellow cab,'' Councilman Vincent M. Ignizio, a Republican who represents the southern part of Staten Island, said at a hearing on the proposal yesterday. 
 ''The Bronx has more beavers than yellow cabs,'' said Councilman G. Oliver Koppell, a Democrat from that borough, referring to recent beaver sightings along the Bronx River. 
 But at the hearing, Matthew W. Daus, the chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, came out against the proposal, saying that he was worried that it would be costly and unfeasible. He said it would take at least three employees to operate each stand for about 12 hours a day. That would cost $160,000 per stand each year, or about $5 million over three years, not to mention capital and other expenses. 
 ''Only 8 percent of taxicab trips take place outside of Manhattan and the airports, which means that there are relatively few opportunities for taxicabs to even contemplate using a stand,'' Mr. Daus said.
 In 2003, the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, an association of large fleet owners who control roughly 3,000 cabs, opened a yellow-cab stand at Roosevelt Avenue and Main Street, in the heart of Flushing, Queens. Fleet owners gave drivers a small discount on lease fees for agreeing to serve the stand, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey agreed to give such drivers a ticket that allowed them to bypass the taxi hold where cabs line up at the city's two major airports to pick up passengers. 
 Those two incentives helped the stand become a success, according to the taxicab board, which pays $70,000 a year for the service. Joseph Giannetto, an official at the board, said that 90,974 passengers had used it as of last month. 
 Mr. Daus did not dispute that the Flushing stand was a success and noted that some drivers who live in Queens now make the stand their first stop, instead of going first to the airports, as many drivers generally do. But he said he thought that Flushing was unusual in the extent of its foot and car traffic during peak hours and in its proximity to La Guardia and Kennedy International Airports. Mr. Daus said he did not believe the model would necessarily work elsewhere.
 Mr. Daus also said the stands might prompt more livery cabs to illegally stop and pick up street hails and lead to ''verbal and other confrontations'' between yellow- and livery-cab drivers. 
 Councilman John C. Liu, a Democrat from Queens and the chairman of the Transportation Committee, disagreed, saying there was already a thriving underground market for livery cabs that pick up street hails. ''There are a lot of people who get off the subway and would like to get a cab immediately,'' Mr. Liu said. ''And they do get a cab immediately. The problem is, they get it illegally.'' 
 Mr. Koppell agreed, saying that every night at the 242nd Street-Van Cortlandt Park subway station, he sees commuters ''getting into cars that are standing there, ready to take them to their residences.''
 Mr. Daus said the commission tried a few years ago to install a yellow-cab stand in Harlem, only to face opposition from the local community board and from car services. ''You know as well as I do there is a turf issue in certain neighborhoods,'' he told the Council. (As of yesterday, there were 13,048 yellow medallion cabs and 37,945 for-hire vehicles, according to the commission.) 
 Mr. Daus, who lives in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, said that he found car services to be more convenient than yellow cabs in his neighborhood, and that he stored the numbers of several cab companies in his cellphone. 
 The Transportation Committee also considered a related bill that would give taxis that run on alternative fuels, like a hybrid of electricity and gasoline, preference in line at the proposed stands. Mr. Daus said he also opposed that bill, claiming that it could create safety problems. The committee did not vote on either bill yesterday, and lawmakers said they may hold a second hearing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A yellow-cab stand at Roosevelt Avenue and Main Street in Flushing, Queens, stays extremely busy. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRPORTS (75%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); CITIES (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%) Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Law and Legislation; Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Taxi and Limousine Commission (NYC)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

PERSON: Matthew W (Chairman) Daus; Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



572 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: You, Too, Can Be a Banker to the Poor

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
For those readers who ask me what they can do to help fight poverty, one option is to sit down at your computer and become a microfinancier.
 That's what I did recently. From my laptop in New York, I lent $25 each to the owner of a TV repair shop in Afghanistan, a baker in Afghanistan, and a single mother running a clothing shop in the Dominican Republic. I did this through www.kiva.org, a Web site that provides information about entrepreneurs in poor countries -- their photos, loan proposals and credit history -- and allows people to make direct loans to them.
So on my arrival here in Afghanistan, I visited my new business partners to see how they were doing. 
 On a muddy street in Kabul, Abdul Satar, a bushy-bearded man of 64, was sitting in the window of his bakery selling loaves for 12 cents each. He was astonished when I introduced myself as his banker, but he allowed me to analyze his business plan by sampling his bread: It was delicious.
 Mr. Abdul Satar had borrowed a total of $425 from a variety of lenders on Kiva.org, who besides me included Nathan in San Francisco, David in Rochester, N.Y., Sarah in Waltham, Mass., Nate in Fort Collins, Colo.; Cindy in Houston, and ''Emily's family'' in Santa Barbara, Calif.
 With the loan, Mr. Abdul Satar opened a second bakery nearby, with four employees, and he now benefits from economies of scale when he buys flour and firewood for his oven. ''If you come back in 10 years, maybe I will have six more bakeries,'' he said.
 Mr. Abdul Satar said he didn't know what the Internet was, and he had certainly never been online. But Kiva works with a local lender affiliated with Mercy Corps, and that group finds borrowers and vets them. 
 The local group, Ariana Financial Services, has only Afghan employees and is run by Storai Sadat, a dynamic young woman who was in her second year of medical school when the Taliban came to power and ended education for women. She ended up working for Mercy Corps and becoming a first-rate financier; some day she may take over Citigroup.
 ''Being a finance person is better than being a doctor,'' Ms. Sadat said. ''You can cure the whole family, not just one person. And it's good medicine -- you can see them get better day by day.''
 Small loans to entrepreneurs are now widely recognized as an important tool against poverty. Muhammad Yunus won the Nobel Peace Prize last year for his pioneering work with microfinance in Bangladesh. 
 In poor countries, commercial money lenders routinely charge interest rates of several hundred percent per year. Thus people tend to borrow for health emergencies rather than to finance a new business. And partly because poor people tend to have no access to banks, they also often can't save money securely.
 Microfinance institutions typically focusing on lending to women, to give them more status and more opportunities. Ms. Sadat's group does lend mostly to women, but it's been difficult to connect some female borrowers with donors on Kiva -- because many Afghans would be horrified at the thought of taking a woman's photograph, let alone posting on the Internet. 
 My other partner in Kabul is Abdul Saboor, who runs a small TV repair business. He used the loan to open a second shop, employing two people, and to increase his inventory of spare parts. ''I used to have to go to the market every day to buy parts,'' he said, adding that it was a two-and-a-half-hour round trip. ''Now I go once every two weeks.'' 
 Web sites like Kiva are useful partly because they connect the donor directly to the beneficiary, without going through a bureaucratic and expensive layer of aid groups in between. Another terrific Web site in this area is www.globalgiving.com, which connects donors to would-be recipients. The main difference is that GlobalGiving is for donations, while Kiva is for loans.
 A young American couple, Matthew and Jessica Flannery, founded Kiva after they worked in Africa and realized that a major impediment to economic development was the unavailability of credit at any reasonable cost.
 ''I believe the real solutions to poverty alleviation hinge on bringing capitalism and business to areas where there wasn't business or where it wasn't efficient,'' Mr. Flannery said. He added: ''This doesn't have to be charity. You can partner with someone who's halfway around the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAKERIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); WOMEN (76%); MICROFINANCE (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS REPAIR (72%); TALIBAN (71%); BUSINESS PLANS (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (64%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (56%); SINGLE PARENTS (56%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof; Muhammad Yunus

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (78%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (91%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); BANGLADESH (91%); UNITED STATES (90%) Bangladesh; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



573 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Independence For Kosovo Urged in Report By U.N. Envoy

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 26 

 BODY:
Martti Ahtisaari, the United Nations secretary general's envoy for Kosovo, on Monday officially recommended its independence, saying it was the only way the strife-worn Serbian province could become economically viable and politically stable. 
 In a 61-page report submitted to the Security Council, Mr. Ahtisaari said he had concluded that negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo had reached an insurmountable impasse. He recommended that Kosovo's independence be supervised for ''an initial period'' by the European Union with NATO forces and European police officers.
 Mr. Ahtisaari's proposals gave new momentum to Kosovo's drive for independence, United Nations diplomats said. But Serbian officials quickly rejected the plan, setting the stage for wrangling in the Security Council between the United States, which embraced the independence proposals, and Russia, another veto-bearing Council member that reaffirmed its support for Serbia. 
 During thirteen months of negotiations, Mr. Ahtisaari wrote, ''both parties have reaffirmed their categorical, diametrically opposed positions,'' and any possibility for an agreement had been ''exhausted.'' After Belgrade unleashed a campaign of attacks against Kosovo's ethnic Albanians, who make up more than 90 percent of the population, NATO forces intervened with aerial bombing in 1999 to stop the Serb offensive. Since then, Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations. 
 Mr. Ahtisaari said Kosovo would not accept a return of Serbian rule. ''This is a reality one cannot deny; it is irreversible,'' he wrote.
 The envoy's proposal calls for Kosovo to become a democratic, ''multiethnic society.'' He called for a decentralized government in which Kosovar Serbs would have ''a high degree of control'' over their affairs. 
 Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried said in an interview that the United States was preparing for tough negotiations with Moscow. Washington will stress that Kosovo is a ''unique case'' that has long been under United Nations governance, American officials said, and its independence would not set any precedents for restive provinces in other countries, including Russia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); BOMBINGS (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) United Nations; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; European Union

PERSON: Julia Preston; Martti Ahtisaari

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ALBANIA (79%) Serbia; Kosovo (Serbia)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



574 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: What We Can Do

BYLINE: By RORY STEWART. 
Rory Stewart's latest book is ''The Prince of the Marshes and Other Occupational Hazards of a Year in Iraq.'' He runs the Turquoise Mountain Foundation in Kabul and is a guest columnist this month.

 BODY:
We must acknowledge the limits of our power and knowledge in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere and concentrate on what is achievable. The question is not ''What ought we to do?'' but ''What can we do?''
 This is rarely discussed. When I ask politicians whether we can defeat the Taliban, they reply that we ''have to'' defeat the Taliban. If I ask whether we can actually do any good by staying in Iraq, they reply that we have ''a moral obligation'' to the Iraqi people. 
 By emphasizing moral necessity, politicians can justify almost any risk, uncertainty or sacrifice and make compromise seem cowardly and criticism treasonous. When I suggest recognition of Moktada al-Sadr or negotiation with the Taliban, I am described as an appeaser. But these moral judgments are fragile, and they increasingly cloak despair, paralysis and preparation for flight. 
 We are learning, painfully, that many of the problems in Iraq or Afghanistan -- from violence and state failure to treatment of women -- are deeply embedded in local beliefs, political structures and traumatic histories. Iraqis and Afghans do not want their country controlled by foreigners and non-Muslims. A powerful and effective minority is trying to kill us. The majority is at best lukewarm: they may dislike Sadrists or the Taliban, but they prefer them to us.
 We are also now aware how little we can comprehend. Our officials are on short tours, lack linguistic or cultural training, live in barracks behind high blast walls and encounter the local population through angry petitions or sudden ambushes. We will never acquire the subtle sense of values, beliefs and history needed to create lasting changes, still less as we once intended, to lead a political, social and economic revolution. 
 Paul Bremer, then the top American administrator in Iraq, told us in October 2003 that we had six months to computerize the Baghdad stock exchange, privatize state-owned enterprises and reform the university curriculum. Now he would be grateful for stability. The American and British people have sensed that their grand objectives are unachievable, and since no one is offering any practical alternative, they are lapsing into cynicism and opposition.
 Meanwhile the paralyzed leaders, afraid of their impotence, flit from troop increases to flight, from engagement to isolation. We must prevent this by acknowledging our limits, while recognizing that although we are less powerful and informed than we claimed, we are more powerful and informed than we fear. 
 A year ago, for example, I felt it would be almost impossible to help re-establish ceramics, woodwork and calligraphy and restore part of the old city of Kabul. I worried that Afghans were uninterested, the standards too low, the prices too high, the government apathetic and international demand nonexistent. But I found great Afghan energy, courage and skill and received imaginative and generous support from the U.S. government. Unexpected markets emerged; the Afghan administration helped; men and women found new pride and incomes. There are many much better established and more successful projects than this all over Afghanistan.
 My experience suggests that we can continue to protect our soil from terrorist attack, we can undertake projects that prevent more people from becoming disaffected, and we can even do some good. In short, we will be able to do more, not less, than we are now. But working with what is possible requires humility and the courage to compromise.
 We will have to focus on projects that Iraqis and Afghans demand; prioritize and set aside moral perfectionism; work with people of whom we don't approve; and choose among lesser evils. We will have to be patient. We should aim to stop illegal opium growth and change the way that Iraqis or Afghans treat their women. But we will not achieve this in the next three years. We may never be able to build a democratic state in Iraq or southern Afghanistan. Trying to do so through a presence based on foreign troops creates insurgency and resentment and can only end in failure. 
 ''You are saying,'' the politician replies, ''that we ought to sit back and do nothing.'' On the contrary I believe we can do a great deal. But ought implies can. We have no moral obligation to do what we cannot do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CURRICULA (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); RELIGION (66%); PETITIONS (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) Rory Stewart

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Iraq; Afghanistan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



575 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2943 words

HEADLINE: Behind U.S. Pressure on Iran, Long-Held Worry Over a Deadly Device in Iraq

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26 

 BODY:
More than 20 months ago, the United States secretly sent Iran a diplomatic protest charging that Tehran was supplying lethal roadside explosive devices to Shiite extremists in Iraq, according to American officials familiar with the message. 
 The July 19, 2005, protest -- blandly titled ''Message from the United States to the Government of Iran'' -- informed the Iranians that a British soldier had been killed by one of the devices in Maysan Province in eastern Iraq.
 The complaint said that the Shiite militants who planted the device had longstanding ties to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in Iran, and that the Revolutionary Guards and Iranian-backed Hezbollah militia had been training Iraqi Shiite insurgents in Iran and supplying them with bomb-making equipment. 
 ''We will continue to judge Iran by its actions in Iraq,'' the protest added. 
 Iran flatly denied the charges in a diplomatic reply it sent the following month, and it continues to deny any role in the supply of the lethal weapons. But the confidential exchange foreshadowed the more public confrontation between the Bush administration and Iran that has been unfolding since December. 
 In the past four months, the administration has sought to put new pressure on Tehran, through military raids against Iranian operatives in Iraq, the dispatch of an American aircraft carrier to the Persian Gulf, as well as the increasingly public complaints about Iran's role in arming Shiite militias. The American actions prompted criticism that the White House is trying to find a scapegoat for military setbacks in Iraq, or even to prepare for a new war with Iran. 
 A review of the administration's accusations of an Iranian weapons supply role, including interviews with officials in Washington and Baghdad, critics of the administration and independent experts, shows that intelligence that Iran was providing lethal assistance to Shiite militias has been a major worry for more than two years. 
 The concern intensified toward the end of 2006 as American casualties from the explosive devices, known as explosively formed penetrators, or E.F.P.'s, began to climb. According to classified data gathered by the American military, E.F.P. attacks accounted for 18 percent of combat deaths of Americans and allied troops in Iraq in the last quarter of 2006. 
 Excluding casualty data for the Sunni-dominated Anbar Province, where the explosives have not been found, the devices accounted for about 30 percent of American and allied deaths for the last quarter of the year. 
 Some Democrats in Congress, while critical of many aspects of Bush administration policy toward Iraq and Iran, say they are persuaded by the intelligence pointing to an Iranian role in supplying E.F.P.'s. Debate remains about whether Iran's top leaders ordered the supply of the weapons, about whether the Iranian-supplied devices can be copied in Iraq and about American policy toward Tehran. 
 In January, the number of American and allied troops killed by E.F.P. attacks was less than half of December's total. That trend continued in February. 
 Some American officials suggest that this may be a response to their efforts to highlight the role Iran is accused of playing, but another factor may be that many Shiite militants have opted not to confront American troops. The weapon, however, is still a major danger. On March 15, an E.F.P. attack in eastern Baghdad killed four American service members and wounded two others.A Devastating Weapon
 E.F.P.'s are one of the most devastating weapons on the battlefield. The weapons fire a semi-molten copper slug that cuts through the armor on a Humvee, then shatters inside the vehicle, creating a deadly hail of hot metal that causes especially gruesome wounds even when it does not kill. 
 Many of the E.F.P.'s encountered by American forces in Iraq are both difficult to detect and extremely destructive. Because they fire from the side of the road, there is no need to dig a hole to plant them, so they are well suited for urban settings. Because they are set off by a passive infrared sensor, the kind of motion detector that turns on security lights, they cannot be countered by electronic jamming. 
 Adversaries have used the weapon in new ways. On Feb. 12, a British Air Force C-130 was damaged by two E.F.P arrays as it landed on an airstrip in Maysan Province, the first time the device was used to attack an aircraft, according to allied officials. Allied forces later destroyed the aircraft with a 1,000-pound bomb to keep militants from pilfering equipment. 
 Over the course of the war, the devices have accounted for only a small fraction of the roadside bomb attacks in Iraq; most bombing attacks and most American deaths have been caused by less sophisticated devices favored by Sunni insurgents, not Shiite militias linked to Iran. But E.F.P.'s produce significantly more casualties per attack than other types of roadside bombs. 
 ''They were a new type of threat with a great potential for damage,'' said Lt. Col. Kevin W. Farrell, who commanded the First Battalion, 64th Armor of the Third Infantry Division, in 2005, when a penetrator punched through the skirt armor of one of the battalion's M-1 tanks and cracked its hull. ''They accounted for a sizable percentage of our casualties. Based on searches of the Baghdad environment we occupied and multiple local Iraqi sources, we believed that they came from Iran.''A Gradual Realization
 American intelligence analysts say the first detonation of an E.F.P. in Iraq may have come in August 2003. But their view that Iran was playing a role in the attacks emerged slowly. American officials said their assessment of Iranian involvement was based on a cumulative picture that included forensic examination of exploded and captured devices, and parallels between the use of the weapons in Iraq and devices used in southern Lebanon by Hezbollah. 
 ''There was no eureka moment,'' said one senior American official, who like several others would discuss intelligence and administration decision-making only on condition of anonymity. 
 The entire E.F.P. assembly seen repeatedly in Iraq, including the radio link used to activate it and the infrared sensor used to fire it, had been found only one other place in the world, American officials say: Lebanon, since 1998, where it is believed to have been supplied by Iran to Hezbollah.
 According to one military expert, some of the radio transmitters used to activate some of the E.F.P.'s in Iraq operate on the same frequency and use the same codes as devices used against Israeli forces in Lebanon.
 More evidence came from the interception of trucks in Iraq, within a few miles of the Iranian border, carrying copper discs machined to the precise curvature required to form the penetrating projectile. Wrappers for C4 explosive, among other items, were traceable to Iran, officials say.
 An important part of the American claim comes from intelligence, including interrogation of captured militia members, about Shiite militants who use E.F.P.'s and maintain close ties to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard and Hezbollah. 
 The militant groups led by Abu Mustafa al-Sheibani have operated one of the most important E.F.P. networks. According to American intelligence reports, his network has been receiving E.F.P. components and training from the Quds Force, and elite unit of the Revolutionary Guard, and Hezbollah operatives in Iran. He is on the Iraqi most-wanted list and the Iraqi criminal court issued a warrant for his arrest in 2005. 
 Ahmad Abu Sajad al-Gharawi, a former Mahdi Army commander, has been active in Maysan Province. American intelligence officials say his group was probably linked to the attack on British forces that was cited in the American diplomatic protest. He is also on the Iraqi government's most-wanted list, and an Iraqi warrant has been issued for his arrest. 
 In September 2005, British forces arrested Ahmad Jawwad al-Fartusi, the leader of a splinter group of the Mahdi Army that carried out E.F.P. attacks against British forces in southern Iraq. American intelligence concluded that his fighters might have received training and E.F.P. components from Hezbollah.
 Mr. Fartusi lived in Lebanon for several years, and a photograph of him with Hezbollah members was discovered when British forces searched his home. In the view of American officials that may be circumstantial evidence of an Iranian connection, because American intelligence experts say Hezbollah generally conducts operations in Iraq with the consent of Iran.
 Last week, American-led forces captured Qais Khazali and Laith Khazali, two Shiite militants who were linked to the kidnapping and killing of five American soldiers in Karbala in January, the United States military said. American officials say they have also trafficked in E.F.P.'s.
 Some people who are experts on military matters but who acknowledge they do not have access to the classified intelligence have said the weapons could be made in Iraq. But American officials say they have not found any facilities inside Iraq where the high-quality E.F.P. components are being manufactured. 
 Nonetheless, the E.F.P. experience in Iraq appears to have, in turn, influenced developments in Lebanon. The installation of E.F.P.'s in foam blocks painted to resemble rocks, a technique first used in 2005 by Shiite militias in Iraq, appeared last summer in Lebanon when Hezbollah was battling Israeli forces. Previously, Hezbollah had generally placed the devices on tripods at the side of the road, covering them with brush to avoid detection.
 ''There's almost been a cross-pollenization,'' one official said.
 American and British forces have been the primary targets in the E.F.P. attacks, but the devices have also been used against Iraqi security forces. In June 2005, a Japanese convoy near Samawa was struck by a roadside bomb that used a remote control firing device typically provided by Iran or Hezbollah. Concerned by the attacks, the British government protested through diplomatic channels in Tehran that year. Taking note of the British complaint, the Americans made their protest through Swiss intermediaries in Iran. As evidence of an Iranian role, the American complaint cited a May 29, 2005, E.F.P attack near Amara that killed a 21-year-old British lance corporal, Alan Brackenbury. Iran denied any involvement.Discussing Concerns Publicly
 After that diplomatic rebuff, American officials began to broach the topic publicly. In August 2005, Stephen J. Hadley, President Bush's national security adviser, said allied forces were being made targets of bombs ''that seem to have a footprint similar to that of devices used by groups that have historically had Iranian support.'' 
 In October 2005, the British ambassador to Iraq, William Patey, told reporters in London that Iran was supplying lethal technology that had been used against British troops. Prime Minister Tony Blair added, ''The particular nature of those devices lead us to either to Iranian elements or to Hezbollah.'' At the time Mr. Blair expressed caution about the certainty of the link to Iran, but in February of this year he said it was clear that Iran ''is the origin of that weaponry.''
 Beginning in April 2006, E.F.P. attacks began to rise. With both the diplomatic protests and the public statements having failed to stop the attacks, American officials again began to discuss what to do. The changing nature of the American strategy, with its increased emphasis on challenging Shiite militias in and around Baghdad, made the issue all the more pressing. 
 According to officials involved in the discussion, who asked not be identified, one concern was that raiding Iranian operatives in Iraq might provoke Iran to increase lethal assistance to Shiite militants. Another worry was that it might require the American command to divert military and intelligence assets from missions against Sunni insurgents, like Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. 
 ''For many months American officials were torn between a desire to do something and a wish to avoid confrontation,'' Philip D. Zelikow, a former senior State Department official, said in a recent speech. ''When a government is conflicted about what to do, the usual result is inaction.''
 As the Bush administration debated what to do, one issue involved the rules of engagement if American forces were to conduct raids against Iranian operatives in Iraq. After the United States Central Command submitted a plan for such raids, one option that was weighed was to declare the Quds Force that is operating in Iraq, to be a ''hostile force.''
 Such an order would give the military a clear legal justification for taking action against Iranian officials and operatives in Iraq, and flexibility in planning the raids.
 Other officials said the Iranians were also involved in economic and social programs in Iraq. They argued for a more limited approach, saying that the United States should single out only Iranian operatives found to have ''hostile intent'' against coalition forces. The Bush administration decided that the raids would be carried out under the more limited rules of engagement for now. 
 Meanwhile, in Baghdad, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., then the top American commander, approved plans to brief the news media on the E.F.P. issue -- a reversal for military officials, who had been reluctant to highlight the effectiveness of the weapons for fear of encouraging their use.
 ''Our intelligence analysts advised our leaders that the historical Quds Force pattern is to pull back when their operations are exposed, so MNF-I leadership decided to expose their operations to save American lives,'' said Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, the chief spokesman for Multinational Forces-Iraq, as the American-led command is known.The Iran Connection
 Some Democratic lawmakers who are critical of the administration's Iraq policies say they now accept that there is a connection between Iran and the E.F.P. attacks in Iraq, though they emphasize that Iran is not the primary reason for instability in Iraq. 
 Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who opposed Mr. Bush's troop reinforcement plan, said he believed that the Bush administration was using the E.F.P. issue to distract attention from the difficulties in Iraq. But he said he was persuaded that the weapons were coming from Iran, in part from extensive talks with American and British commanders during trips to Iraq.
 ''They want to keep us under pressure in Iraq without causing a major power reaction by us or a major meltdown within Iraq, which puts a failing state on their borders,'' Mr. Reed said of the Iranians.
 At a February hearing, Senator Carl Levin, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a critic of the plan to send more troops to Baghdad, pressed Mike McConnell, the new director of national intelligence, to acknowledge that other countries in the region, too, were supplying insurgents in Iraq.
 Mr. Levin, however, said he was ''not surprised'' by Mr. McConnell's view that some of Iran's leaders probably knew of E.F.P. deliveries arranged by the Quds Force, and aides say Mr. Levin believes that the administration has been too cautious about pinning the blame on Iran's leaders.
 Flynt Leverett, a senior fellow at the New American Foundation and a Middle East specialist who worked for the Central Intelligence Agency and on the staff of the National Security Council, also said he believed that Iran was supplying munitions to Shiite militias. 
 But Mr. Leverett said the threat to American troops from Sunni insurgents, who draw on Syria and Saudi Arabia for money and other logistical support, was ''orders of magnitude'' greater than that from Shiites, and he contended that the Bush administration's public emphasis on the E.F.P.'s was part of a larger administration strategy to blame Iran ''for the failure of the American project in Iraq.''
 In the report it completed in December, the Iraq Study Group called for opening talks with Iran and suggested Iran could take steps to improve security in Iraq by stemming ''the flow of equipment, technology, and training to any group resorting to violence in Iraq.''
 ''The fact that Iran may be supplying lethal equipment is all the more reason to deal with them,'' Lee H. Hamilton, a co-chairman of the panel, said in an interview. ''We do think it fortifies the case for engaging Iran.''
 July 19, 2005The United States issues a diplomatic protest to Iran about the E.F.P.'s, following a British protest.Aug. 2005Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, say they believe sophisticated improvised explosive devices are coming from Iran.Oct. 2005First recovery of an intact E.F.P. array. William Patey, the British ambassador to Iraq, and Tony Blair, the British prime minister, link Iran and Hezbollah to the supply of explosive devices.July and Nov. 2006American Intelligence agencies meet to discuss the Iran-E.F.P. connection.Dec. 2006
 American troops detain four Iranian officials in two raids in Baghdad.Jan. 10, 2007 President Bush declares that ''Iran is providing material support for attacks on American troops'' and vows to ''seek out and destroy the networks providing advanced weaponry and training to our enemies in Iraq.'' The next day, American troops detain five Iranian officials during a raid in Erbil.Feb. 11, 2007American military officials in Baghdad brief reporters on E.F.P.'s believed to be coming from Iran.
 (Source by U.S. Army) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: American soldiers displayed parts of weapons, known as explosively formed penetrators, after finding them last month in a Shiite village near Baghdad. The copper liners in the foreground become projectiles when the explosive devices are set off. (Photo by Robert Nickelsberg/Getty Images, for The New York Times)Chart: ''Explosively Formed Penetrators''A particularly deadly type of roadside bomb favored by Shiite militias in Iraq.CONSTRUCTIONEach explosively formed penetrator, or E.F.P., consists of a short section of metal pipe packed with explosives and fitted with a concave dish-shaped copper liner.TRIGGERAn E.F.P. is typically connected to a passive infrared sensor, which is triggered by heat and movement. A remote control may be added to control the sensor from a distance.DETONATIONWhen the sensor is tripped, the force of the explosion partly melts the copper liner and deforms it into a tadpole shape. The projectile can penetrate armor plate and spray the inside of a target vehicle with metal fragments.CAMOUFLAGEE.F.P.'s are often placed together in a camouflaged array, with several explosives stacked together at slightly different angles, sprayed with foam and rolled in concrete or mud to look like a rock. A small hole is left for the infrared sensor.Diagram of an E.F.P. highlights the following: DetonatorPipe capPipeExplosiveCopper linerE.F.P.'S IN IRAQAug. 2003First Suspected use of an E.F.P. in Iraq.Dec. 2003First recovery of radio equipment most likely intended for use with E.F.P.'s.Dec. 2004First recovery of a passive infrared sensor modified for use with E.F.P.'s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); RELIGION (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (65%); ARMED FORCES (65%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Bombs and Explosives

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: Michael R Gordon; Scott Shane; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (69%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN (90%); GULF STATES (78%) Iraq; Iran; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



576 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: City Report Defends Con Ed For Key Choice in Blackout

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Lawyers for the Bloomberg administration are defending Consolidated Edison's decision not to shut down the electrical network that failed in western Queens last July, causing a nine-day blackout. 
 While critical of Con Edison over all, a 247-page report given to City Council members yesterday disputes a key finding by state regulators, who concluded that the utility's decision to try to keep the entire network running after parts of it began to fail was a mistake that prolonged the blackout. The power failure affected an estimated 174,000 people.
The report, prepared by Couch White, an Albany law firm hired by the city, was submitted to the state's Public Service Commission on March 2. 
 Despite intense public interest after the blackout, however, the city did not announce the completion of the report or give copies to members of the Council until the start of an oversight hearing yesterday morning.
 As copies of the report circulated through the Council chamber in City Hall, lawmakers reacted angrily. For more than an hour, they berated Gil C. Quiniones, senior vice president for energy and telecommunications at the city's Economic Development Corporation, for not notifying them that the report had been completed.
 Mr. Quiniones said that it had been published on the Public Service Commission's Web site, and that there was no intent to conceal findings from the Council or the public. But his explanation did nothing to stop the tongue-lashing from lawmakers.
 ''It's just ridiculous,'' said Councilman Leroy G. Comrie Jr., a Queens Democrat who, as chairman of the Committee on Consumer Affairs, conducted the hearing. ''There's a disrespect of the public's need to know.'' 
 Councilmen Eric N. Gioia and Peter F. Vallone Jr., the two Queens Democrats who represent most of the neighborhoods affected by the blackout, were even more irate. Both men accused Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg last year of not being more critical of Con Edison as the blackout persisted.
 ''This administration has acted as a shield for Con Ed,'' Mr. Gioia said. 
 Mr. Quiniones replied, ''That is an inaccurate and baseless charge.'' 
 The fracas over the disclosure of the report obscured, to a degree, the six main findings and 53 recommendations. The six findings were these: 
 Con Edison's reliance on phone calls from customers caused it to underestimate the extent of the blackout and ''hindered its ability to make informed decisions.'' 
 Some ''vulnerable or failure-prone equipment'' that failed during the blackout should have been replaced earlier.
 Con Edison's decision to reduce voltage throughout the network in western Queens backfired, worsening damage to secondary wires and inconveniencing customers ''for longer than was necessary.''
 The utility did not adequately oversee contractors managing a major project to upgrade circuit breakers, a failure that ''contributed to or prolonged'' the blackout.
 Con Edison designed its system under the assumption that ''extreme heat events'' would occur once every three years, when in fact such events have occurred 15 times over the past 11 years. 
 The utility failed to carry out some of the 44 recommendations made by the Public Service Commission after a similar blackout in northern Manhattan in 1999.
 In January, the staff of the Public Service Commission found that Con Edison's failure to adequately maintain, operate and oversee equipment was ''the overriding cause'' of the blackout. But in a 35-page supplement including the city's official comments on that report, two lawyers from Couch White, Robert M. Loughney and Moshe H. Bonder, were much more cautious.
 Mr. Loughney and Mr. Bonder concluded only that ''better preparation and responsiveness by Con Edison could have reduced the likelihood of the Long Island City outage and decreased its impact.'' 
 Similarly, they labeled as ''unsubstantiated'' the Public Service Commission's conclusion that Con Edison should have shut down the network, cutting power to more people but potentially making it easier for the system to recover.
 Mr. Loughney and Mr. Bonder wrote: ''Even today, with the benefit of hindsight, it is not possible to say with certitude that the company's decision was wrong. It does appear that the company's determination not to take the network down was made without access to sufficient information.'' 
 State Assembly members and the staff of the Public Service Commission have urged the commission to begin a formal proceeding that could result in financial penalties against Con Edison. But Mr. Loughney and Mr. Bonder wrote that such a proceeding ''could distract Con Edison from completing the numerous, critical improvements'' needed by the summer.
 The new report took some of the heat off Con Edison, which has been criticized at a series of hearings on the blackout. Even so, a council member asked John F. Miksad, the company's senior vice president for electric operations, why no one was fired after the blackout. 
 Mr. Miksad replied that Con Edison managers ''don't believe in taking people out back and shooting them.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: John F. Miksad, left, a senior vice president for Con Edison, at a hearing yesterday. At right, Councilman Peter F. Vallone Jr., a Queens Democrat. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (77%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Consolidated Edison Inc

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



577 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup to Cut At Least 10,000 In an Overhaul

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and HEATHER TIMMONS

 BODY:
Citigroup, the global banking giant, is stepping up its first major overhaul since it was forged by a merger nearly a decade ago. 
 Under pressure from investors, its chairman and chief executive, Charles O. Prince III, will either layoff or reassign more than 26,000 jobs as part of a broad effort to cut costs and streamline the bank's unwieldy global operations.
Citigroup is planning to shed 10,000 to 12,000 jobs this year, according to people briefed on the situation. Some 14,000 additional positions will be lost to attrition or relocated from high-cost locations -- including London, Hong Kong and New York, where the company is based -- to less expensive areas like India, Buffalo, Cincinnati and northern New Jersey. 
 Roughly 8 percent of the company's 327,000 employees, fanned out across the globe, could be affected. 
 Citigroup's consumer and credit card operations will bear the brunt of the job losses, but the cuts will also extend to its other main businesses, including its investment bank. 
 The company is also considering taking a charge of at least $1 billion against earnings related to the overhaul. The planned reductions, which are expected to be announced early next month, follow calls by some shareholders for more drastic actions at Citigroup, where operating expenses have outpaced revenue.
 In 2006, Citigroup's expenses rose 15 percent, to $52 billion, while revenue rose 7 percent, to $89.6 billion. At rivals like Bank of America and J.P. Morgan, the reverse has been true -- with revenue growing faster than expenses. Citigroup's stock has also been treading water for the three and a half years Mr. Prince has been at the helm. 
 In December, Mr. Prince pledged that he would create a ''leaner, thinner'' Citigroup. Now, both his career and the company's prospects are on the line.
 ''This whole year is important for Chuck in terms of showing Citigroup can, in fact, get its arms around managing the challenges that is this far-flung company,'' said Guy Moszkowski, a financial services analyst with Merrill Lynch. ''The scale and the credibility of the expense exercise are going to be important in helping him show he has control.'' 
 With investors increasingly impatient, Mr. Prince has made a series of changes in an effort to turn around the company. In December, he installed Robert Druskin as the chief operating officer and gave him the task of conducting a ''structural review'' by the end of this month with an eye toward reaping cost savings. 
 In late February, he hired Gary L. Crittenden, American Express's former financial chief and restructuring specialist, to bolster the bank's fiscal management. 
 Alongside the cost-cutting effort, Mr. Crittenden is using his first few weeks on the job to conduct a similar assessment of the company's overall financial structure and operations. Working with Citigroup's senior management team, he is trying to find ways to instill expense discipline and identify underperforming assets, according to people briefed on the situation.
 Citigroup has long conducted exhaustive financial reviews of its major businesses, separately examining its credit card or fixed-income divisions as stand-alone units. But this appears to be the first time the company's management is conducting a top-to-bottom scrubbing of its overall financial position. It also could foreshadow a broader overhaul. 
 Mr. Prince's predecessor, Sanford I. Weill, orchestrated the 1998 merger of Travelers and Citicorp that formed the company. Under Mr. Weill's tenure, big acquisitions fueled Citigroup's growth. But severe underinvestment and a decentralized management approach left the company's businesses reeling. Since Mr. Prince took over in October 2003, he has been on an ambitious campaign to remake the company. He has laid out a strategy to drive internal and international growth, calling for heavier investment spending and a more coordinated business model. 
 But the success of those plans have been hamstrung by his failure to rein operating expenses. Last summer, Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia, one of Citigroup's big shareholders, called for ''draconian measures'' to cut costs. In the face of growing investor pressure and a challenging environment for banks, Mr. Prince has cut back on some of the planned investment spending and ratcheted up the acquisition effort, most recently with a $13.4 billion takeover offer for Nikko Cordial, a big Japanese brokerage firm and bank. 
 At a news conference in India yesterday, Mr. Prince declined to comment on a report in The Wall Street Journal that Citigroup would eliminate as many as 15,000 jobs.
 A Citigroup spokeswoman said that the company was continuing its cost-cutting review and that the company would announce details of its plans on or before April 16. That is when the company will release its first-quarter earnings. 
 Investors, it seemed, already factored the news into their analysis. Citigroup shares closed yesterday at $51.54, down 18 cents. 
 ''Job cuts are only a piece of the Citi puzzle,'' said Jason M. Goldberg, a banking analyst with Lehman Brothers. It is about improving processes and ''making systems changes,'' he said. ''And we still need to see those investments made in 2006 start generating greater revenues in 2007 and beyond.''
 Citi's consumer and credit card operations will see most of the job cuts, with customer service employees and back-office workers hardest hit. The company is engaged in a five-year effort to streamline technology systems and Mr. Prince has made eliminating duplicate functions, like separate legal staffs, a priority. 
 ''Each of our consumer businesses -- mortgages, cards, consumer finance -- has its own separate middle- and back-office business,'' Mr. Prince told investors in mid-January. ''Do we need separate middle and back offices for each of those businesses?''
 Citi's investment bank will probably eliminate many back-office jobs, but the business leaders are also taking a harder look at less productive junior managers, including highly paid workers between the vice president and managing director ranks, according to people briefed on the situation. The goal is to increase revenue per employee -- a measure of productivity -- and bring it up to par with Goldman Sachs and other high-performing investment banks. 
 Across the company, Citigroup senior managers are being asked to find ways to eliminate overlapping jobs and unclog its vast bureaucracy, not just cutting back on magazine subscriptions and the use of company limousines. Mr. Prince, for example, has frequently questioned the logic of having three separate regional headquarters for every main business unit, each with its own staff. 
 While many of the cuts are expected by the end of this year, the timetable for the overall cost-cutting program is unclear as is the number of positions that will be lost to normal attrition. It is also unknown how many workers will need to relocate.
 Many jobs are expected to head offshore to places like India; with 22,000 employees there, Citigroup already has a large Indian presence. About 12,000 of those workers process credit card and mortgage payments and perform other back-office functions. Sanjay Nayar, the bank's top executive in India, told employees this month that he expects that group to add about 200 workers a month. 
 ''We will consolidate and simplify our back offices around the world,'' Mr. Prince said during a swing through New Delhi. ''Traditionally, India has been a beneficiary of that.'' 
 Other jobs, however, could be relocated in the United States. The company wants to take advantage of lower wages and consolidate its operations. Citigroup, for example, recently said it was adding 650 jobs in Amherst, N.Y., more than doubling the number of employees in the Buffalo suburb. It is planning to construct a 150,000-square-foot building that will consolidate many back-office functions for its corporate and investment bank. 
 In Blue Ash, Ohio, just outside Cincinnati, a new information technology operation for the consumer business will employ about 1,000 workers by the end of the year. Economic development officials there say the bank plans to add about 20 to 30 workers a week, both from in and outside of the region. Once it sheds an 11-story building in downtown Manhattan, some of its 1,500 employees will move to a Jersey City office.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles O. Prince III, the chairman of Citigroup, at a news conference in New Delhi yesterday. He is on a campaign to reduce expenses. (Photo by Sanjit Das/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Expense Troubles''Unlike its major rivals, Citigroup has had trouble controlling its expense growth recently.CitigroupEXPENSE GROWTH, 2006: +15.2%REVENUE GROWTH, 2006: +7.1%OPERATING LEVERAGE*: -8.0%Bank of AmericaEXPENSE GROWTH, 2006: +24.1REVENUE GROWTH, 2006: +30.2OPERATING LEVERAGE*: +6.1JPMorgan ChaseEXPENSE GROWTH, 2006: -0.4REVENUE GROWTH, 2006: +14.3OPERATING LEVERAGE*: +14.7(Sources by Company reports *Revenue growth minus expense growth)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%) Banks and Banking; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: Eric Dash; Heather Timmons; Charles O III Prince

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); OHIO, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (76%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



578 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Carmakers Push More Use of Alternative Fuels

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The chief executives of United States automakers urged President Bush yesterday to back incentives to bring ethanol and biodiesel to more pumps as the companies bolster output of so-called flex-fuel vehicles. 
 By 2012, half the vehicles made by General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler, a unit of DaimlerChrysler, could be able to run on biodiesel or E85, a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline, the executives said in a statement.
Yesterday's meeting with Mr. Bush in Washington was the second time in four months that Rick Wagoner of G.M., Alan R. Mulally of Ford and Thomas W. LaSorda of Chrysler pressed the president to expand access to biofuels. The executives prefer that option over stricter fuel-economy standards as a way to cut American oil use.
 ''If the goal is to reduce oil imports and improve the environment, the opportunity is first of all in ethanol, biodiesel,'' Mr. Wagoner told reporters after the meeting. The executives spent ''very little time'' talking about mileage rules, he said.
 The United States has more than six million flex-fuel vehicles, but the nation's 170,000 gas stations have only 2,000 pumps for E85 or biodiesel, they said.
 ''We are willing to lead the way,'' the automakers' statement said. ''But we need government and fuel providers to increase infrastructure before we can make a meaningful impact.''
 Mr. Bush did not commit publicly on any biofuel incentives. American producers of ethanol, made chiefly from corn, now receive a tax credit of 51 cents a gallon. They also benefit from a 54-cent tariff on each gallon of imported ethanol. Automakers that build flex-fuel vehicles get a credit letting them increase their fleets' average fuel economy.
 Putting an E85 outlet within five miles of most American motorists would require at least 20,000 pumps, said Phil Lampert, executive director of the National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition in Jefferson City, Mo.
 The president has called for a 20 percent cut in American oil consumption in 10 years, three-fourths of that from using alternative fuels, and the rest from better vehicle fuel economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Rick Wagoner of G.M., Alan R. Mulally of Ford, President Bush, Thomas W. LaSorda of Chrysler and Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters at the White House yesterday. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (95%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); ETHANOL (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BIOMASS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); GAS STATIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); CONSUMPTION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%) Automobiles; Ethanol; Biodiesel Fuel; Fuel Efficiency; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RICK WAGONER (90%); ALAN MULALLY (88%); MARY PETERS (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Rick Wagoner; Alan R Mulally; Thomas W Lasorda

GEOGRAPHIC: JEFFERSON CITY, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



579 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Justices Hear Arguments About Pacts On Pricing

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 26 

 BODY:
A 96-year-old rule that treats as an automatic antitrust violation any agreement between a manufacturer and its retailers to adhere to a minimum resale price is considered archaic and out of touch by the Bush administration and economists of the Chicago school.
 But it still has friends, and several of them sit on the Supreme Court. 
A Supreme Court argument on Monday laid to rest any expectation that the rule against ''resale price maintenance'' would go quietly, joining other types of agreements between manufacturers and retailers that the Supreme Court no longer regards as automatic, or per se, violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act. 
 The old per se rule got a spirited defense not only from lawyers representing a small boutique in Texas and a coalition of 37 states, but from Justices Stephen G. Breyer, John Paul Stevens, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and David H. Souter. 
 These justices questioned the impact on consumers of permitting anti-price-cutting agreements and suggested that it was up to Congress and not the court to disavow a foundational principle of modern antitrust law, one that was announced by the Supreme Court in a 1911 case, Dr. Miles Medical Company v. John D. Park & Sons.
 These four justices include two with substantial expertise in antitrust law: Justice Stevens, who made antitrust his specialty as a practicing lawyer before he became a federal judge, and Justice Breyer, who taught the subject at Harvard Law School.
 The court's other antitrust expert, Justice Antonin Scalia, also practiced and taught antitrust law in his pre-judicial career. Justice Scalia, however, expressed a very different view of the question. He offered a helping hand to Theodore B. Olson, the lawyer who was arguing on behalf of a leather goods manufacturer that the per se rule against resale price maintenance should be overturned.
 Mr. Olson's client, Leegin Creative Leather Products Inc., which makes the Brighton line of leather goods, lost a multimillion-dollar jury verdict to a retailer it had cut off for discounting its products. Mr. Olson accepted Justice Scalia's help gratefully after having endured a barrage of skeptical questions in the opening minutes of his argument as Justice Breyer and the others warned that retail prices would inevitably rise if Mr. Olson won his appeal. 
 The colloquy proceeded as follows:
 Justice Scalia: Is it the sole object of the Sherman Act to produce low prices?
 Mr. Olson: No.
 Justice Scalia: I thought it was consumer welfare.
 Mr. Olson: Yes, yes, it is.
 Justice Scalia: And I thought some consumers would prefer more service at a higher price.
 Mr. Olson: Precisely.
 Justice Scalia: So the mere fact that it would increase prices doesn't prove anything. If in fact it's giving the consumer a choice of more service at a somewhat higher price, that would enhance consumer welfare, so long as there are competitive products at a lower price, wouldn't it?
 Mr. Olson: That's absolutely correct.
 If the court does use this case, Leegin Creative Leather Products Inc. v. PSKS Inc., No. 06-480, to overturn the per se rule, resale price maintenance would not automatically be legal. Rather, any challenge to an agreement between a manufacturer and retailer to forbid discounting would be subject to the ''rule of reason,'' a familiar concept in antitrust law under which courts evaluate the anticompetitive effects of a marketing restriction case by case. So if Leegin wins at the Supreme Court, the case would go back to Federal District Court in Marshall, Tex., for a trial under the rule of reason.
 In the company's appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, Leegin had urged application of the rule of reason. But the appeals court said it was bound by Supreme Court precedent to apply the per se rule. The jury's award of $1.2 million in damages to Kay's Kloset, the suburban Dallas shop that Leegin cut off, was automatically tripled under antitrust law.
 Leegin's marketing strategy for finding a niche in the highly competitive world of small leather goods was to sell the Brighton line through small boutiques that could offer personalized service. Retailers were required to accept its no-discounting policy. Leegin did not dispute that this amounted to price fixing, but argued that consumers benefited from the extra care that the retailers' guaranteed margin enabled them to give to promoting and servicing the products.
 The Supreme Court in recent years has overturned per se rules against other types of manufacturer-dealer agreements, including, most recently, the setting of maximum resale prices.
 Both Robert W. Coykendall, arguing for PSKS Inc., the parent of Kay's Kloset, and Barbara D. Underwood, the New York State solicitor general who argued on behalf of 37 states, told the justices that the rule against minimum resale price maintenance was different and should be retained.
 ''Price is different,'' Ms. Underwood said, adding that ''this court has said that price competition is the central nervous system of the economy.''
 Overturning the rule would be ''a drastic change in the longstanding, settled interpretation of the Sherman Act,'' she said, adding: ''If that change is to be made at all, it should be made by Congress and not by this court.''
 During the Depression, Congress passed a law permitting states to allow retail price fixing through what were known as ''fair trade'' laws. A Justice Department study in 1956 showing that consumers in those states were paying considerably more than consumers in ''free trade'' states brought new scrutiny to the issue, and Congress repealed the fair trade statute in 1975.
 The outcome of the case may well depend on the vote of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who asked several questions during the argument but did not appear persuaded one way or another. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. and Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. seemed inclined to overturn the rule. Justice Clarence Thomas did not ask questions during the argument.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPEALS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LEATHER & ALLIED PRODUCT MFG (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PERSONAL LEATHER GOODS MFG (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); JUDGES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (64%) Retail Stores and Trade; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Law and Legislation; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); States (US); Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Protection; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: LEEGIN CREATIVE LEATHER PRODUCTS INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US); Leegin Creative Leather Products Inc; PSKS Inc

INDUSTRY: SIC2387 APPAREL BELTS (64%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); STEPHEN BREYER (79%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (78%); DAVID SOUTER (77%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (76%) George W (Pres) Bush; Stephen G (Assoc Justice) Breyer; John Paul (Assoc Justice) Stevens; Ruth Bader (Assoc Justice) Ginsburg; David H (Assoc Justice) Souter; Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



580 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Silent Majority Is Not to Be Feared

BYLINE: By Mohsin Hamid. 
Mohsin Hamid is the author of ''Moth Smoke'' and the forthcoming novel ''The Reluctant Fundamentalist.''

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
I WAS one of the few Pakistanis who actually voted for Gen. Pervez Musharraf in the rigged referendum of 2002. I recall walking into a polling station in Islamabad and not seeing any other voter. When I took the time required to read the convoluted ballot, I was accosted by a man who had the overbearing attitude of a soldier although he was in civilian clothes. He insisted that I hurry, which I refused to do. He then hovered close by, watching my every action, in complete defiance of electoral rules. 
 Despite this intimidation, I still voted in favor of the proposition that General Musharraf, who had seized power in a coup in 1999, should continue as Pakistan's president for five more years. I believed his rule had brought us much-needed stability, respite from the venal and self-serving elected politicians who had misgoverned Pakistan in the 1990s, and a more free and vibrant press than at any time in the country's history. 
The outcome of the referendum -- 98 percent support for General Musharraf from an astonishing 50 percent turnout -- was so obviously false that even he felt compelled to disown the exercise. 
 Rigged elections rankle, of course. But since then, secular, liberal Pakistanis like myself have seen many benefits from General Musharraf's rule. My wife was an actress in ''Jutt and Bond,'' a popular Pakistani sitcom about a Punjabi folk hero and a debonair British agent. Her show was on one of the many private television channels that have been permitted to operate in the country, featuring everything from local rock music to a talk show whose host is a transvestite.
 My sister, a journalism lecturer in Lahore, loves to tell me about the enormous growth in recent years in university financing, academic salaries and undergraduate enrollment. And my father, now retired but for much of his career a professor of economics, says he has never seen such a dynamic and exciting time in Pakistani higher education.
 But there have been significant problems under General Musharraf, too. Pakistan has grown increasingly divided between the relatively urban and prosperous regions that border India and the relatively rural, conservative and violent regions that border Afghanistan. The two mainstream political parties have historically bridged that divide and vastly outperformed religious extremists in free elections, but under General Musharraf they have been marginalized in a system that looks to one man for leadership.
 What many of us hoped was that General Musharraf would build up the country's neglected institutions before eventually handing over power to a democratically elected successor. Those hopes were dealt a serious blow two weeks ago, when he suspended the chief justice of Pakistan's Supreme Court, Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry.
 For General Musharraf, Justice Chaudhry had become a major irritant. He had opened investigations into government ''disappearances'' of suspects in the war on terrorism. He had blocked the showcase privatization of the national steel mill. He had, in other words, demonstrated that he would not do General Musharraf's bidding. With elections due later this year, and challenges to irregularities like the rigging that took place in 2002 likely to end up in the Supreme Court, an independent chief justice could jeopardize General Musharraf's continued rule.
 Like many Pakistanis, I knew little about Justice Chaudhry except that he had a reputation for being honest, and that under his leadership, the Supreme Court had reduced its case backlog by 60 percent. His suspension seemed a throwback to the worst excesses of the government that General Musharraf's coup had replaced, and it galvanized protests by the nation's lawyers and opposition parties, including rallies of thousands in several of Pakistan's major cities yesterday.
 More troubling still was the phone call I received recently from a friend who works for Geo, one of Pakistan's leading independent television channels. The government had placed enormous pressure on Geo to stop showing the demonstrations in support of Justice Chaudhry, and the channel had refused to comply. When my friend told me that policemen had broken into Geo's offices, smashed its equipment and beaten up the staff, I felt utterly betrayed by the man I had voted for.
 Despite his subsequent apology for the Geo incident, General Musharraf now appears to be more concerned with perpetuating his rule than with furthering the cause of ''enlightened moderation'' that he had claimed to champion. He has never been particularly popular, but he is now estranging the liberals who previously supported his progressive ends if not his autocratic means. People like me are realizing that the short-term gains from even a well-intentioned dictator's policies can be easily reversed.
 General Musharraf must recognize that his popularity is dwindling fast and that the need to move toward greater democracy is overwhelming. The idea that a president in an army uniform will be acceptable to Pakistanis after this year's elections is becoming more and more implausible.
 The United States has provided enormous financial and political support to General Musharraf's government, but it has focused on his short-term performance in the war on terror. America must now take a long-term view and press General Musharraf to reverse his suspension of the chief justice and of Pakistan's press freedoms. He should be encouraged to see that he cannot cling to power forever.
 Pakistan is both more complicated and less dangerous than America has been led to believe. General Musharraf has portrayed himself as America's last line of defense in an angry and dangerous land. In reality, the vast majority of Pakistanis want nothing to do with violence. When thousands of cricket fans from our archenemy, India, wandered about Pakistan unprotected for days in 2004, not one was abducted or killed. At my own wedding two years ago, a dozen Americans came, disregarding State Department warnings. They, too, spent their time in Pakistan without incident.
 Yes, there are militants in Pakistan. But they are a small minority in a country with a population of 165 million. Religious extremists have never done well in elections when the mainstream parties have been allowed to compete fairly. Nor does the Pakistan Army appear to be in any great danger of falling into radical hands: by all accounts the commanders below General Musharraf broadly agree with his policies.
 An exaggerated fear of Pakistan's people must not prevent America from realizing that Pakistanis are turning away from General Musharraf. By prolonging his rule, the general risks taking Pakistan backward and undermining much of the considerable good that he has been able to achieve. The time has come for him to begin thinking of a transition, and for Americans to realize that, scare stories notwithstanding, a more democratic Pakistan might be better not just for Pakistanis but for Americans as well.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Shout) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); HISTORY (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); RELIGION (65%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (64%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); POP & ROCK (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; Freedom of the Press; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%) Mohsin Hamid; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf; Iftikhar Mohammad (Chief Justice) Chaudhry

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) PAKISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Pakistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



581 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: House Iraq Vote: 'Political Theater'?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''House, 218 to 212, Votes to Set Date for Iraq Pullout'' (front page, March 24):
 The House of Representatives has finally lived up to the mandate of the last election. President Bush's assertion that this is mere ''political theater'' implies that he believes that the 2006 election was a meaningless exercise in political theater as well.
Once again, the Bush administration tirelessly promotes the spilling of American blood and treasure to promote democracy abroad while undermining or ignoring democracy at home.Ralph AverillNew Preston, Conn.March 24, 2007To the Editor: 
 I have always been against the Iraq war, but I wonder if Congressional Democrats are right to set a date for withdrawal. Is this poorly conceived micromanagement of the war? Will the bad guys use this deadline to plan future offensives? 
 The Democrats should work to bring our troops home, but an arbitrary deadline based on American domestic politics may not be their best first step.Matt PerkinsSeattle, March 24, 2007To the Editor:
 As an 85-year-old veteran of World War II, I want to thank the members of the House, under the leadership of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, for putting aside their differences to form a majority in favor of setting a time limit that will end the Iraq war and bring our troops home. 
 It's what the American people want, as they showed in the November elections, and it's the clearest way to support our young men and women in uniform.George F. NelsonNew York, March 24, 2007To the Editor:
 As a lifelong Democrat, I'm ashamed of this pullout vote. It neither serves the best interests of the country, nor will it shorten the war a single day. It may be good political theater, but it's not leadership.
 Iraq can no longer be isolated from Afghanistan, or from the wider war on terrorism. If car bombs are allowed to succeed in Iraq, they will be used elsewhere. 
 Terror is an idea; it knows no borders. Iraq may be a bloody civil war, but it has surely also become the central front of the war on terror, as the president claims. This is an outcome that many of us who opposed the war predicted, and that we deplore, but that does not make it any less true.
 President Bush has made long overdue but well-regarded changes in leadership: his secretary of defense and his military commander on the ground. They should be given a chance.
 If Democrats in Congress truly want to shorten the war, they should accept these realities and focus on areas where the president is still lagging, like jobs and economic development in Iraq and regional diplomacy.Ron CohenWaltham, Mass., March 24, 2007To the Editor: 
 President Bush labels passage of the House bill ''political theater'' as he surrounds himself with members of the military and their families -- the very same people who are being so disgracefully served at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and other veterans' facilities for their often devastating war injuries.
 Is no bar low enough?Mary Ryan-SmithGarden City, N.Y., March 24, 2007To the Editor: 
 The vote for an Iraq pullout can hardly be considered a demonstration of the unity of House Democrats, considering that it was achieved only by trading $24 billion in pork for affirmative votes. 
 If the Democrats are truly unified in their desire to set a deadline for leaving Iraq, they should conduct a strict up-or-down vote on that question alone. By doing so, they would clearly define their policy and would allow the American people to decide whether or not this is the proper way to conduct a war.Alan V. AbramsNew York, March 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); TERRORISM (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL WAR (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) Ralph Averill; Matt Perkins; George F Nelson; Ron (Waltham, Mass) Cohen; Mary Ryan-Smith; Alan V Abrams; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007



582 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Museums; ART: ESSAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Leaving Room for the Troublemakers

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
LAST May, a 30-something American curator named Chris Gilbert stormed off his job at the Berkeley Art Museum in California. He left in a dispute over a word. 
 He had just organized a show called ''Now-Time Venezuela: Media Along the Path of the Bolivarian Process,'' about the leftist revolution in progress in South America. In a wall label, he described the exhibition as being in ''solidarity'' with that struggle, and museum officials balked. They wanted him to use more neutral wording, like ''concerned'' with the struggle. An ideological standoff ensued. Mr. Gilbert quit, posting his resignation letter, which was also a political position paper, on the Internet.
 Two concepts of what a museum should do -- and be -- crystallized and clashed, with Mr. Gilbert's view by far the less traditional. To him, art is an instrument for radical change. The museum is a social forum where that change catches fire. The curator is a committed activist who can help light the spark. The goal is to transform the values of the culture that had created the museum. If in the process an obsolete museum went up in flames, a new one would rise from its ashes. 
 Whatever your thoughts about Mr. Gilbert's politics, it is hard to deny the commitment and excitement of his vision of the museum as an ethically charged experience, a psychologically fraught encounter, a stage for disruptive, possibly dangerous, ideas. It isn't just a place where you go to look at old things, but a place where you see in fresh ways. 
 This vision can seem especially dynamic when set beside recent events in New York museums. Last fall, the big-ticket items at three of the city's major institutions all mined the same surefire marquee draw, Pablo Picasso, in boilerplate group shows: ''Cezanne to Picasso'' at the Met; ''El Greco to Picasso'' at the Guggenheim; and ''Picasso and American Art'' at the Whitney. 
 None gave a challenging take on its subject. ''Picasso and American Art'' was, basically, a deluxe version of the small-budget show ''Picassoid,'' which the Whitney put together in 1995 with easy-to-get loans and accompanied with an inexpensive brochure. The three fall shows had costly loans and lavish books, but their museums arguably saved money just the same. How? By using the opportunity perhaps to pass up a major scholarly show on other kinds of art: African art, Latin American art, Islamic art, South Asian art, Oceanic art and Native-American art, among them. 
 Africa, after all, is not Picasso.
 Now, as we approach the 20th anniversary of the stock-market plunge that brought the art market to its knees, money is again in truly fathomless supply. People think about it constantly, about how much there is of it, spilling out of pockets, oozing from hedge-fund accounts. 
 Curators find themselves enlisted as personal shoppers to the collectors who swarm through the art fairs. Museums hope these guided purchases will end up on their walls; collectors hope they will serve as tickets to higher ground on the art-world social terrain. 
 When the painter Brice Marden was interviewed in The New York Times before his recent MoMA retrospective, he talked primarily about real estate, about how many houses and how much land he had bought, or was buying thanks to his phenomenal sales. ''What else am I going to do with all this money?'' he asked. 
 Talking about money in public is fairly new to an industry famous for its strategic discretion, its insistence that ''value'' means beauty, not bucks. Not that the sudden candor should be mistaken for some kind of ethical turn of mind. Wealth is so common that it's now the norm, not a sign of selling out to ''the establishment.'' Money is like white noise, so there that you forget it's there. 
 A similar trick of illusion surrounds the vaunted populism of museums. Every American city, to be a proper city, now needs to have its own jewel-box art museum. Any existing museum anywhere needs to be expanded expensively. Thanks to all this stretching, art and its institutions have, we are told, grown increasingly democratic, more accessible to all. 
 In fact, the more successful a museum grows, the more elitist it tends to become. Social distinctions based on money and patronage can assume the intricate gradings of court protocol. At street level, admission prices climb, reinforcing existing socioeconomic barriers. Programming grows more cautious. If you're laying out $20, you want to see ''the best'' art, which often means art that adheres to conventional versions of beauty, authority, ''genius'' (white and male) set in a reassuringly familiar context. 
 An extreme spin on museum populism came into vogue not too long ago, with exhibitions of ''nonart'' materials: motorcycles at the Guggenheim, hip-hop ephemera at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. Critics surprised themselves by raving over the Guggenheim show. Custom-made bikes, it turned out, are High Design. On the other hand, the hip-hop material, most of it mass-produced, inexpensive and readily available, was dismissed as mere merchandise. What was it doing in an art museum?
 It was illustrating, among other things, Andy Warhol's canny prediction that all museums will become department stores, and vice versa. Sure enough, here we are and we have to ask the question: What's the difference between a top-of-the-line Harley, a Tupac poster and a Marden abstraction? Fundamentally, none. They are all brand-name items distinguished by different price tags. Populist or not, they are products of corporate marketing, of the money holders.
 A good many people, including some who benefit from the current boom, are critical of this state of affairs. I would guess that Mr. Gilbert, whom I have never met and know about only third-hand, would have trenchant things to say about Mr. Marden's plight, suggesting inventive ways for him to dispose of his surplus capital. 
 I would also guess that Mr. Gilbert, like certain other idealists, is at heart an optimist, if an intensely critical one, when it comes to the subject of art in the social sphere. Optimism is a useful attitude, because cynicism is so exhausting and pacifying. It can wear you down. After a while it starts saying: Relax. Lighten up. Life is just like that. Give the art world a break. It can't help being a miniature version of the culture that made it. What can it do about that? 
 One thing it can do -- that museums can do -- is clear an alternative space in that culture, a zone of moral inquiry, intellectual contrariness, crazy beauty. In this space, artists can simultaneously hold a magnifying glass up to something called ''America'' and also train a telescope on it: probe its innards and view it from afar, see it as others see it. From these perspectives, they might come up with models of a cosmopolitan, leveled-out society for a country in solidarity with the world, in contrast to the provincial, hierarchical, self-isolating one that exists today. 
 The common wisdom of the moment, however, tells us that carving out such a zone is no longer possible. The market, that state of manipulated consensus called freedom of choice, is so omniscient, so all consuming, so universal that there is no alternative left, no margin; no outside, only inside.
 Well, yes and no. There are, in fact, still many artists ''out there'': out of fashion, out of sync, out of touch, waiting to be rediscovered or discovered or not. ''Wack! Art and the Feminist Revolution,'' an international survey of 119 women artists at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, includes a number of them.
 The show is, among other smart things, an indictment of what happens when the market is left to write history: much of the good stuff gets left out, and the task of finally bringing it in is overwhelming. When I visited the exhibition I saw not only a panorama of fascinating art and radical sensibilities, but also 119 books -- doctoral dissertations -- begging to be written, and as many retrospectives waiting to be organized. 
 A few of the artists have already been, or will be, picked for commercial enshrinement. They have earned the attention they receive. Others will be shunted back outside. What is most moving about the show, though, and is most likely to inspire young artists in the decades to come, is the record of collective creativity it represents, a creativity generated by the lived politics of 119 committed artists who were outsiders in their time.
 A good number of artists today self-consciously position themselves both inside and outside the mainstream. This is true of many new collectives, clusters of artists who have formed their own creative environment, their own audiences and distribution systems, even -- very important -- their own economy. Unsurprisingly, they have historically had an indifferent reception from museums and the market in thrall to the ''genius'' cult. So, by design and by default, they maintain a maverick way.
 And, finally, there are art-world figures like Mr. Gilbert who simply, conscientiously opt out. While his legend has been growing online, he seems to have been in Venezuela (at least as of a few months ago), doing I don't know what. Supporting a movement of radical social change. Building the alternative people's museum of the future? Treating the two jobs as one? What I do know is that in the world he has left behind, such movements and such museums feel a very long way off.

GRAPHIC: Photos: PLAYING IT SAFE -- Some shows aimed at the crowds: hip-hop at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, top, and a motorcycle tribute at the Guggenheim, right. Picasso, whose ''Girl Before a Mirror'' is at MoMA, above, has been a warhorse. (Photo by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times [motorcycle and Picasso])(pg. H35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICS (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); RELIGION (50%) Art; Finances; Museums ; Art

PERSON: Holland Cotter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



583 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 2; Museums; PROJECTS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Grand Plans and Huge Spending

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
THE cultural building boom shows few signs of slowing. Nationwide, art institutions are renovating, adding wings or starting from the ground up. Projects include relatively modest undertakings like the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum's $25 million plan to increase its gallery space by moving the museum's library and administrative offices out of the building, and ambitious ones like the new $208 million home for the Miami Art Museum on Biscayne Bay, designed by the Swiss architects Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron.
 Not all the projects cataloged here will be done on time or even finished at all; construction costs keep going up. But collectively, this growing list of major plans reflects confidence that people want to see art in exciting spaces. 
They also reflect a less lofty reality: that donors like giving their dollars to prestigious construction projects. They can put their names on galleries, lobbies or -- if the gift is big enough -- even the front entrance. They can see clearly where their money went and invite their friends to the festive opening exhibitions.
 For institutions themselves, new buildings draw media coverage, new donors and -- perhaps most important -- more visitors. Local governments like them since art institutions often act as economic engines, helping tourism and benefiting businesses like hotels and restaurants. Museums all hope for the Bilbao Effect: what Frank Gehry's Guggenheim building did for an obscure Spanish town 10 years ago. 
 Sometimes new museums generate controversy, as the Museum of Arts and Design did by deciding to move next year into 2 Columbus Circle -- the 1964 ''lollipop'' building designed by Edward Durell Stone, which some modernists fought to preserve as a landmark. Sometimes museums are part of a larger complex, like the World Trade Center Memorial Museum planned for ground zero, or the Museum Plaza in Louisville, Ky., which includes offices, condominiums, a hotel and space for the University of Louisville's M.F.A. program.
 Some art experts warn that all this new building could backfire. Bigger museums mean bigger bills, and cultural institutions need to be realistic about whether they can carry their overhead for the long term -- raise money for future operating expenses as well as immediate construction costs. While audacious expansions may aim to increase attendance and membership, there is no guarantee they will. 
 For the moment, however, these are glory days.
 through the end of 2010.New museum projects in the U.S.Opening 2007 through 2010Map of the United States shows Size of new construction (square feet), Type of museum and Type of project.Weisman Art Museum at the University of MinnesotaMinneapolis; opens fall 2009Size: 11,000 sq. ft. new addition to47,000 sq. ft. existing buildingBudget: $10 millionArchitect: Frank GehrySpertus Institute of Jewish StudiesChicago; opens fall 2007Size: 24,000 sq. ft. withinnew 155,000 sq. ft. buildingBudget: $34 million*Architects: Krueck & SextonArt Museum of Western Virginia Roanoke, Virginia; opens fall 2008Size: 81,000 square feet Budget: $59 millionArchitect: Randall Stout Architects, Inc.Parrish Art MuseumWater Mill, N.Y.; opens fall 2009Size: 63,000 square feet Budget: $30 millionArchitects: Herzog & de MeuronCalifornia Academy of SciencesSan Francisco; opens fall 2008Size: 410,000 square feetBudget: $371 millionArchitect: Renzo PianoCreation MuseumPetersburg, Ky.; opens spring 2007Size: 60,000 square feetBudget: $27 millionArchitect: A.M. KinneyNorth Carolina Museum of ArtRaliegh, N.C.; opens fall 2009Size: 127,000 sq. ft. new addition to 181,300 sq. ft. existing buildngBudget: $78 millionArchitect: Thomas Phifer & PartnersNew Museum of Contemporary ArtNew York; opens fall 2007Size: 60,000 square feetBudget: $50 millionArchitect: Kazuyo Sejima +Ryue Nishizawa / SANAA*Amount reflects construction cost of entire structure.Research by James Freed/The New York Times; graphic by Tommy McCall(Source by Lord Cultural Resources) 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A map in the special Museums section on Wednesday that highlighted museum construction projects around the country referred incorrectly to the scope and timing of several of them. A corrected map can be found at nytimes.com/museums.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''Expansion, Coast to Coast''Over the next several years, these 46 institutions will either expand, relocate or build new museums -- often with bold designs by big-name architects -- with openings planned

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RESTAURANTS (65%) Art; Relocation of Business; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Finances; Museums

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (84%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (69%) Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



584 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Javits Center Gives Baseball A Price Break for FanFest

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Jacob K. Javits Convention Center board broke with a longstanding policy last week when it voted to effectively give Major League Baseball a subsidy. The convention center on the Far West Side of Manhattan will provide a $200,000 discount on the rent at its exhibition hall during baseball's FanFest next year, which will be a prelude to the 2008 All-Star Game at Yankee Stadium.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced on Jan. 31 that the 79th All-Star Game would be played at Yankee Stadium on July 15, 2008, only a few months before the Bronx ballpark is to be mostly demolished to make way for a new stadium. 
On March 20, the Javits board agreed to reduce the rent at the convention center by 33 percent at the urging of the city's convention and visitors bureau and the Sports Development Corporation, which bid for the game in partnership with the Yankees.
 But about 100,000 fans who are expected at the five-day affair at the Javits will be charged $22 each for admission, or more, with the money going to Major League Baseball. Souvenirs, caps and food will be extra.
 One board member at the meeting, Ronald Goldstock, questioned why the Javits was granting discounts to millionaire ballplayers and team owners. He has nothing against baseball, he said; it's just that the Javits has routinely refused to provide discounts for the Republican Party, the National Football League and the Robin Hood Foundation, a charity dedicated to fighting urban poverty.
 Maureen J. Reidy, who runs major events for the convention and visitors bureau, said, ''It's not a discount for millionaire baseball players.'' Ms. Reidy, who made the presentation to the Javits board, said baseball's bidding process required competing cities to cover the cost of renting convention centers for the FanFest. But the rent will be raised privately by the Sports Corporation and will not involve any taxpayer money.
 Given the thousands of people who will attend the baseball events, shop, attend Broadway shows and book hotel rooms, Ms. Reidy said, ''It was a smart investment.''
 Mr. Goldstock ultimately voted to approve the discount, although he suggested that the board develop a guide for future events. Still, the Javits Center will charge $400,000 in rent for FanFest; the normal rate at Javits for such an event would be $600,000.
 The discount for FanFest might be viewed as another example of politicians' love affair with sports. There are now three sports projects -- two baseball stadiums and a basketball arena -- under construction in New York City with more than $600 million in direct public assistance, not to mention the tens of millions in tax breaks. Yet the city comptroller's office once estimated that the sports industry accounted for less than 2.5 percent of the city's multibillion-dollar economy.
 ''There's often some economic bounce associated with sports events, but quantifying that is often quite speculative,'' said Doug Turetsky, chief of staff at the city's Independent Budget Office. ''Typically, stadiums and arenas are not great economic development generators.''
 The Bloomberg administration said in January that the All-Star Game festivities would attract 175,000 visitors to New York and generate $148 million in economic activity, including 15,000 hotel room nights. 
 But these numbers can be hard to pin down. Joe McGrath, president of the convention and visitors bureau in Pittsburgh, estimated that the 2006 All-Star Game festivities in that city attracted 250,000 visitors, 43 percent more than New York anticipates, but generated only $52 million in economic activity. ''Each community has a different way of counting,'' Mr. McGrath said. ''We take the most conservative approach.''
 Like the Javits Center, Pittsburgh's convention center cut its normal fee by a third, to $100,000, and the city covered the cost. 
 The FanFest, Pittsburgh officials said, attracted 106,000 visitors from the surrounding area who could not get tickets to the All-Star Game itself. There were about 40 attractions, including batting cages, clinics and a Hall of Fame exhibit.
 Economists said that local visitors did not have the same economic impact as the thousands of fans who flew into town for the game at PNC Park, booked hotel rooms and went to local restaurants. But Pittsburgh has one of the smallest stadiums in major league baseball, with 38,496 seats, so it is unclear whether that city attracted all 250,000 people it expected. (Yankee Stadium can accommodate 56,000 people.)
 Mr. McGrath said that the city's hotels ''got a real shot in the arm during the summer,'' when the convention business is slack. 
 The average occupancy rate for Pittsburgh's 22,000 hotel rooms is about 61 percent, according to PKF Consulting. But it remains to be seen how many more people can be crammed into Manhattan's 66,000 hotel rooms. Last July, during the week the All-Star Game was played in Pittsburgh, New York had a hotel occupancy rate of 86.4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (95%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX RELIEF (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) Baseball; All-Star Games; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%) Javits, Jacob K, Convention Center (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



585 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2479 words

HEADLINE: Behind Newark Foreclosure Data, Ruined Credit and Crushed Hopes

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and RON NIXON; Margot Williams contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
After Franklin Abazie fell behind on his mortgage last year, he tucked one of his foreclosure notices, still in its ripped envelope, into the visor of his car -- a looming reminder of why he had to take a second job. 
 Rashid and Yvonne Moore, a middle-aged couple whose lenders are threatening foreclosure because they have fallen behind on their mortgage payments, have begun thinking the unthinkable: moving in with his parents.
For Quintin Fields, it may take a miracle to keep his house; he owes nearly as much in late payments as he will earn all year. 
 ''Everything is closing in on me right now,'' Mr. Fields said. 
 Broad swaths of Newark are groaning under the weight of mortgage debt, much of it accumulated in the building boom of recent years that has transformed some parts of the city with gleaming redevelopment. 
 But in many of these neighborhoods, a heavy mortgage debt has led thousands of residents -- many of them first-time homebuyers -- close to financial ruin, experts and local officials say. According to recent census figures, more than 40 percent of Newark homeowners spend more than half their income on housing, one of the highest percentages in the New York metropolitan region and among the highest in the country. 
 In small ways and large, that debt is forcing thousands of people here to change their lives. Many have taken second jobs. Others are selling off prized possessions. Some have had to rent out rooms. And more than a few have surrendered to the inevitability of losing their homes to foreclosure.
 Driving the high mortgage debt and the boom in home sales here, and around the country, has been the proliferation of mortgages that have made it possible for people with poor credit, scant savings and modest incomes to buy homes. Among these are subprime loans, which are easier to obtain than prime rate loans but come with an added burden: much higher interest rates. In many cases, financial institutions lent to people without verifying whether their incomes could support the monthly payments.
 Federal lending data show that a high percentage of mortgages for homes on the north, south and west sides of Newark -- as much as 50 percent in some neighborhoods -- are subprime loans. And a national study by the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonpartisan research group based in North Carolina, predicts that more than 18 percent of the people holding those loans will go into foreclosure in the next three to four years.
 The tales of financially beleaguered Newark are not only about subprime loans. Unforeseen financial problems, misunderstandings about complex mortgage transactions and poor money management have been major factors in bringing some first-time homeowners to the brink of foreclosure.
 And the situation mirrors conditions in large urban areas across the country and around the metropolitan region. Neighborhoods in Queens, the Bronx and Brooklyn also have large concentrations of subprime loans, which are at high risk of foreclosure, according to Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data examined by The New York Times. The study by the Center for Responsible Lending predicts that nearly 22 percent of the subprime loans in the New York area made in 2006 will go into foreclosure in the next few years, one of the highest rates in the nation. And in suburban counties like Nassau, Orange and Putnam, the percentage of households spending at least 50 percent of income on housing has been rising.
 While the overall number of foreclosures nationwide remains low -- in New Jersey, it is less than 2 percent of all outstanding mortgages -- it masks the reality of conditions in lower-income, heavily minority neighborhoods like Mr. Abazie's, where multicolored ''Avoid Foreclosure'' and ''Sell Your House'' signs seem to decorate most of the lampposts.
 Nearly 250 homes within one mile of Mr. Abazie's home in Newark's South Ward have been in some form of foreclosure in the past six years, according to sales data from the Essex County Sheriff's Department analyzed by The Times. In that time, more than 4,000 homes in the city have gone into foreclosure, according to the data.
 Malcolm Bush, president of the Woodstock Institute, a national research group that studies mortgage lending in poor neighborhoods, said that widespread foreclosures in an area can depress already low housing prices, making it harder for others in that area to get loans or refinance. And those troubles can afflict an entire community.
 ''This has wider social implications,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It appears that things are going to get worse.''Too Big a Loan
 Newark's long-impoverished, overwhelmingly black South Ward is still recovering in some ways from the exodus of residents and commerce after the 1967 riots. On many blocks, there is a shortage of sidewalks, an abundance of weedy lots and drug dealers who openly ply their trade. 
 But parts of the South Ward are also hotbeds of development, filled with new multifamily homes with driveways or garages. Many have ''For Rent'' signs posted in their front windows. 
 This is where Mr. Abazie and his wife, Beryl, live. Mr. Abazie, 28, grew up in Nigeria and moved to the United States 10 years ago for work and college. After they were married last year, the couple decided to leave the apartment life behind, buy a home and start a family. 
 Through a friend, they found a broker and a three-year-old two-family home on Schley Street. With good credit and some savings, Mr. Abazie, a night security guard, thought he could obtain a low-interest loan insured by the Federal Housing Authority. 
 But after two lenders told him he did not qualify for such a loan, he settled for something less: a $325,000 subprime mortgage from Wall Street Financial. It was actually two loans, with an 8.5 percent interest rate on the larger one and a 12.2 percent rate on the smaller one. His monthly payments are now more than $2,600.
 Earning about $2,000 a month on his salary, he quickly fell behind. At first, he had assumed that he could find a tenant to help offset the cost of the mortgage, but soon discovered his neighborhood had a glut of vacant apartments. So last fall, he took a second job working nights helping mental patients at a state hospital. 
 In December, his wife gave birth to their first child, a son. But because they were still straining to pay their bills, she returned to work part time this month, at a home for the elderly. 
 Last month, they found a tenant, who pays $400 a month, far short of the $1,200 rent they had thought they could charge. They have fallen more than $3,500 behind on their mortgage payments. In November, they received their first foreclosure notice. 
 Mr. Abazie has thought about selling the house -- he even took a real estate class -- but would almost certainly lose money. For now, he is hoping he can refinance his loan; but rates are not getting better and his credit record is only getting worse. 
 They continue to trim the family budget and have stopped sending monthly checks of several hundred dollars to his parents and siblings in Nigeria. Not wanting to field his relatives' plaintive calls, he changed his cellphone number last month. 
 ''I'm in a really tough corner,'' he said. ''I just do not feel happy talking about my current challenges.'' A Single Mother Struggles
 For Michelle Pitt, subprime loans were not the problem. But she, too, has found herself swimming in debt that is jeopardizing her ability to keep her home. 
 Ms. Pitt, a 39-year-old single mother of four, bought her two-family house from a local nonprofit group, Episcopal Community Development, in 1999. The house sits on a hill in the South Ward and rattles constantly with the sound of Interstate 78, the highway next door. Still, it was a good deal, selling for $105,000 under a subsidized housing program.
 Ms. Pitt, a first-time home buyer, got a mortgage with a relatively good interest rate of 7.5 percent. And at the time, she was earning decent salaries from two jobs, as a flight attendant for Spirit Airlines and as a dental assistant in state prisons. 
 Over the next few years, she was laid off by the prison and stopped working at Spirit when the company moved some of its New York operations to Florida. Since then, she has held temporary jobs, most recently as a part-time orthodontist's assistant. 
 ''I stopped flying and everything started happening,'' she said.
 She made $25,000 last year, plus child support -- just enough to pay her monthly mortgage payments of $1,324 on time. She lives paycheck to paycheck, while scrimping on the extras her family used to take for granted. Dinners out, movies, clothes, shopping trips and visits to the hair salon have become rare luxuries. An annual summer ritual, a vacation in the Poconos, has become out of the question. 
 Worried that a late delivery of her paycheck will mean no groceries, Ms. Pitt often makes the 30-minute drive to her temp agency to collect it in person. She owes several thousand dollars on her credit cards, and recently canceled most of them to avoid falling deeper into debt. 
 Ms. Pitt notices the foreclosures in the neighborhood, the boarded-up houses on the drive to her children's schools. She loves this house: its staircase lined with framed pictures of the children, the backyard deck, the kitchen where the family gathers for breakfast each morning. It represents something solid and permanent, something she wants her children, ages 1, 13 and 14, to experience. (She has a 23-year-old son who does not live with her.)
 To keep it all, she is thinking of selling her house and moving to the Poconos. ''It's all about giving them something I never had,'' she said. A Dream Goes Wrong
 For Quintin Fields, buying a home in Newark was less about finding a place to live and more about trying to find opportunity in the city's housing boom. It is an opportunity he now wishes he had passed up.
 Almost two years ago, Mr. Fields, who lives with his wife in a Harlem apartment, bought a three-family home from his half brother in Newark's West Ward, on a street sandwiched between two cemeteries.
 Mr. Fields, 46, a caseworker at a residential program for troubled teenage boys in East Orange, thought he might turn the house into a residence for troubled young adults. But he was also enticed by the idea, suggested by his half brother, that buying the building could repair Mr. Fields's poor credit record and that selling it might someday make him some money.
 A first-time home buyer with an annual income of about $36,000 and almost no savings, Mr. Fields did not qualify for a prime loan for the $315,000 house. So his half brother arranged a 15-year mortgage from WMC Mortgage Company, a subprime division of General Electric, and another from the Option One Mortgage Company, the subprime group of H & R Block. 
 The $2,312 monthly payments were much more than he could afford, but Mr. Fields said his brother assured him that they could find tenants. They did, but then lost them. Last July, without the rental income, his brother, who was managing the property, stopped paying the lenders. Mr. Fields now owes almost $30,000 in delinquent payments and has fallen out with his half brother.
 He has received multiple foreclosure notices. With no savings, and with an even worse credit record than before, he has been frantically filling out grant applications, hoping to salvage his plans.
 ''It's just sad,'' said Mr. Fields, whose wife is expecting their first child this summer. ''I can't even borrow money.'' Starting Over, Finding Trouble
 The case of the Moores suggests that low-income people are not the only ones who have gotten into trouble with subprime loans. 
 Mr. Moore, 53, comes from Newark's South Ward, and met his wife in the 1970s, when they were both in high school.
 They dated then, but split apart as Mr. Moore battled drug addiction. Over the years, they both were married to, and then divorced from, other people. He worked as a longshoreman in the Port of Newark, a job he still holds today. Mrs. Moore, now 50, moved away after high school, living in Manhattan, Paris and Tennessee. 
 When they found each other again three years ago through mutual friends, they had seven children between them. They were married, and after a lifetime of rented apartments, decided it was time to buy their own home. 
 A year and a half ago, they found it: a large one-family house, for $310,000 on a street of well-kept Victorians in the South Ward neighborhood of Clinton Hill. With six bedrooms, it was a place to bring their family together, a reward for a middle-aged couple who had bumped around in life.
 Though he refused to reveal his salary, Mr. Moore said that a longshoreman with his experience can make $29 an hour, and more with overtime. It was enough, they assumed, to get a good interest rate.
 But Mr. Moore's credit ''wasn't the greatest,'' he said: He had had problems, including difficulties with a car lease and a federal tax lien. After scraping together a few thousand dollars for closing costs, he and his wife had no money left for a down payment. So they got a two-part loan, similar to Mr. Abazie's, with the smaller part carrying a 10 percent interest rate. Their monthly payments total almost $2,600.
 They thought they could handle that. But work dropped off at the port for Mr. Moore, and a job that Mrs. Moore thought she would get with Mayor Cory A. Booker's administration never materialized.
 Soon, the mortgage payments began squeezing them. Electric and telephone bills became harder to pay; recently his cellphone was turned off for late payments. Mrs. Moore has started suggesting that they sell the house and move in with his elderly parents, who have a large home in Newark. 
 He rejected the idea, but is now pondering selling some of his prized possessions, including his collection of expensive bicycles and perhaps one of his Fender bass guitars. 
 ''I need to make some moves,'' Mr. Moore said. ''I need to keep this house.''
 The moves may have to come fast. They fell three months behind on their mortgage and started receiving foreclosure letters from their two lenders. They staved off further action by negotiating an agreement to add the $10,000 they owed to their principal. 
 But they were just able to scrape together the March payment, delivering it two weeks late. Their phone now rings constantly with calls from companies offering ways out of their debt. Mrs. Moore talks to them, hoping one will offer the right deal. 
 Last week, a man delivered a court summons for a foreclosure proceeding. Mrs. Moore became so upset she threw the unopened envelope onto the street. After frantic calls to their lenders, they bought some additional time.
 ''I'm not used to not knowing what to do,'' Mr. Moore said. ''I'm not happy about it, but I'm determined to overcome this.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yvonne and Rashid Moore have had trouble making their payments. (Photo by Patrick Andrade for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Franklin Abazie, along with his wife, bought a house in Newark last year and had trouble finding a tenant to offset the mortgage costs. He has taken a second job.
Michelle Pitt, a single mother of four, bought a house in 1999. Since then, her income has declined and she has struggled to stay current on her mortgage payments.
Quintin Fields bought a house in Newark as an investment, and with hopes of starting a group home, but has fallen thousands of dollars behind on his loan payments. (Photographs by Patrick Andrade for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart/Map: ''Many in Newark Unable to Afford Their Homes''From 2000 through 2006, Newark had more than 4,000 foreclosures.Where the foreclosures were 2000 through 2006Each dot represents one foreclosure
white outlines show census tract boundaries.Map of Newark highlighting locations of foreclosures from 2000 through 2006A majority of those foreclosures were in census tracts with high concentrations of minorities . . .Map of Newark highlighting percentage of foreclosures in minority population.. . . and in tracts with a large percentage of high-cost loans given to homeowners, many with blemished credit.Map of Newark highlighting locations where the percentage of loans were subprime.No data in unshaded areas.(Haeyoun Park and Ron Nixon/The New York Times)(Sources by U.S. Census Bureau
Essex County Sheriff's Department
 Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (72%); CENSUS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



586 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: How Many Scientists?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Sometimes you read something about this administration that is just so shameful it takes your breath away. For me, that was the March 20 article in this paper detailing how a House committee had just released documents showing ''hundreds of instances in which a White House official who was previously an oil industry lobbyist edited government climate reports to play up uncertainty of a human role in global warming or play down evidence of such a role.''
 The official, Philip A. Cooney, left government in 2005, after his shenanigans were exposed in The Times, and was immediately hired by, of course, Exxon Mobil. Before joining the White House, he was the ''climate team leader'' for the American Petroleum Institute, the main oil industry lobby arm. 
The Times article, by Andrew Revkin and Matthew Wald, noted that Mr. Cooney said his past work opposing restrictions on carbon dioxide emissions on behalf of the oil industry had ''no bearing'' on his actions at the White House. ''When I came to the White House,'' he testified, ''my sole loyalties were to the president and his administration.'' (How about loyalty to scientific method?) Mr. Cooney, who has no scientific background, said he had based his editing on what he had seen in good faith as the ''most authoritative and current views of the state of scientific knowledge.''
 Let's see, of all the gin joints. Of all the people the Bush team would let edit its climate reports, we have a guy who first worked for the oil lobby denying climate change, with no science background, then went back to work for Exxon. Does it get any more intellectually corrupt than that? Is there something lower that I'm missing? 
 I wonder how Mr. Cooney would have edited the recent draft report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, written and reviewed by 1,000 scientists convened by the World Meteorological Society and the U.N. It concluded that global warming is ''unequivocal,'' that human activity is the main driver, and that ''changes in climate are now affecting physical and biological systems on every continent.''
 I am not out to promote any party, but reading articles like the Cooney one makes me say: Thank goodness the Democrats are back running the House and Senate -- because, given its track record, this administration needs to be watched at all times.
 But I also say thank goodness for the way Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has built a Republican-Democratic coalition in California to blunt climate change. The governor is not only saving the Republican Party from being totally dominated by climate cranks, like Senator James Inhofe, and hacks-for-hire, like Cooney, but he also is creating a bipartisan template for dealing with climate change that will be embraced by Washington as soon as the Bush team is gone. I went out to Sacramento to interview the ''Governator'' a few weeks ago.
 ''The debate is over,'' he said to me. ''I mean, how many more thousands and thousands of scientists do we need to say, 'We have done a study that there is global warming?' ''
 What is ''amazing for someone that does not come from a political background like myself,'' said Governor Schwarzenegger, is that ''this line is being drawn'' between Democrats and Republicans on climate change. ''You say to yourself: 'How can it be drawn on the environment?' But it is. But the great thing is more and more Republicans are coming on board for this. Seeing how important this is. And more and more Democrats and Republicans are working together. I said in my inaugural address: 'There isn't such a thing as Republican clean air or Democratic clean air. We all breathe the same air.' Let's get our act together, fix this problem and fight global warming.''
 Last September, Governor Schwarzenegger signed the Global Warming Solutions Act, requiring California to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions 25 percent by 2020. 
 ''Everybody recognized that it was so important that we should not argue over philosophy -- that we Republicans believe in this and we Democrats believe in this and get nothing done,'' he said. ''We did it carefully. We gave it enough ramp-up time to start in the year 2012 and by the year 2020 we want to hit that level. I am a business-friendly guy. I'm all about economic growth. I am not here to harm businesses. I am here to make businesses boom, but let's also protect our environment. Let's make our air clean. Let's make our water clean. And let's fight global warming because we know now that this is a major danger, that this is not a debate anymore.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); METEOROLOGY (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); GOVERNORS (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



587 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Opens Naval Exercise in Persian Gulf

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
In a calculated show of force, the United States Navy began a major exercise in the Persian Gulf on Tuesday, a move that Bush administration officials said was part of a broader strategy to contain Iranian power in the region. 
 Two American aircraft carriers -- the John C. Stennis and the Dwight D. Eisenhower -- participated in the exercise along with more than a dozen other warships. It was the first time that two carriers have conducted joint operations in the Persian Gulf since 2003, the year the United States invaded Iraq. 
American officials said the deployment was planned before Iran's capture of 15 British sailors and marines last week. But the exercise was clearly intended to send a signal that even with its forces stretched thin by the Iraq war, the United States still has the military means to project power in the region.
 The Bush administration initially considered canceling the exercise after the British troops were detained. After consulting with the British government, the exercise was adjusted so that it would take place farther away from where the Britons were captured, American officials said. A scheduled port call by the Stennis in the United Arab Emirates was canceled so the exercise could get under way.
 ''We don't want them to determine what we do when we think we are within our rights to do it,'' a senior Bush administration official said, referring to the Iranians. 
 With the grinding war in Iraq and American lawmakers pushing for troop withdrawals, there is uncertainty over the future American military role in the region. That uncertainty has coincided with Iran's growing influence throughout the Middle East, including a nuclear program that American officials assert is intended to develop weapons. 
 ''Iran has been trying to send a message for some time that we are on the way out, that they are the natural great power of the region and that everybody should circle around Iran,'' said the senior American official, who declined to be identified because he does not customarily speak to the news media. 
 The American naval maneuvers are one element of a broader strategy to counter the Iranians and reassure nervous allies. It also involves the deployment of Patriot antimissile systems to Qatar and Kuwait and the dispatch of minesweeping equipment to the region. 
 The appointment of Adm. William Fallon as the head of the United States Central Command, which has responsibility for the Middle East, is another signal that the Bush administration intends to emphasize the use of naval power to counter the notion that it is too bogged down in Iraq and Afghanistan to respond to other threats. Admiral Fallon is the first naval officer to head the command. 
 ''This whole thing is designed to send a message to the region,'' the official said, referring to the naval exercise. ''We are sending a message that we are here to stay.'' 
 Toward that end, the American military made an effort to facilitate news coverage of its two-day carrier exercise by Middle East news organizations. Arab as well as Western media were offered an opportunity to board ships participating in the exercise. 
 The goal, according to military officials, was to reassure ''regional audiences'' of the capability of American naval forces and Washington's determination to keep forces in the region.
 American relations with Iran have involved recent diplomatic talks in Baghdad as well as strenuous efforts at the United Nations to build support for economic sanctions against Iran because of its determination to move ahead with its uranium enrichment program. The American military has also conducted raids in recent months against suspected members of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in Iraq and still have five Iranians in detention.
 Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Tuesday that the recent talks with Syria and Iran in Baghdad represented a ''good start'' and added that the Bush administration ''is open to higher level exchanges.''
 But Mr. Gates also cautioned, ''We should have no illusions about the nature of this regime or about their designs for their nuclear program, their intentions for Iraq or their ambitions in the gulf region.''
 Before venturing into the gulf, the Stennis had been providing aircraft for the NATO military operation in Afghanistan from the Arabian Sea. It headed to the Persian Gulf after the Charles de Gaulle, a French aircraft carrier, took up the Afghanistan mission. 
 With American carrier aircraft flying simulated attack missions in the Persian Gulf, some administration officials sought to emphasize that the exercise was not a cover for an impending air strike against Iran's nuclear facilities. Nor would the United States enter Iranian territorial waters, the officials said.
 ''It is not a precursor to war,'' said one official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the press. ''It is not a sign that we are building up capability in the region to attack. Sending two aircraft carriers should be seen as a demonstration of our capability.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A jet took off yesterday from the flight deck of the John C. Stennis, one of two aircraft carriers taking part in exercises in the Persian Gulf. (Photo by Kamran Jebrelli/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (90%); QATAR (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



588 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Index Falls More Than Predicted

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Rising gasoline prices and stock market turbulence undermined consumer confidence in March, a widely watched index showed yesterday.
 The Conference Board said that its consumer confidence index fell to 107.2, from the revised 111.2 in February. Analysts had expected a reading of 109. The March index was the lowest since November 2006, when the reading was 105.3. 
 ''Apprehension about the short-term future has suddenly cast a cloud over consumers' confidence,'' Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said in a statement.
 ''The recent turmoil in financial markets coupled with the run-up in gasoline prices may have contributed to consumers' heightened sense of uncertainty and concern,'' she added. ''The direction of both components over the next few months bears watching to determine whether this decline is just a bump in the road or something more substantial.''
 Economists closely monitor consumer confidence because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economic activity.
 An index that measures how shoppers feel about economic conditions increased slightly to 137.6, from 137.1 in February, while an index that measures consumers' outlook in the next six months declined to 86.9, from 93.8.
 The arrival of warmer weather this month, after an unusually cold February, has helped the nation's retailers catch up to a slow start to the spring selling season. But a slowing economy, particularly in the housing market, could challenge shoppers in the months ahead. The latest report on housing, released yesterday by Standard & Poor's, further dimmed hopes for a rebound in the market. Prices of single-family homes across the nation fell in January compared with a year ago, the weakest results in more than 13 years, according to the S.& P. housing index.
 There are also concerns about rising gasoline prices. The national average price for gasoline climbed for the eighth consecutive week, according to a government report released Monday.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Confidence''Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100.Graph tracks attitudes since the end of 2005.(Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (97%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (97%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Housing ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board; Standard & Poor's Corp

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



589 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: For Investors, a Less Insular Island

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
The Long Island commercial real estate market was once surprisingly insular, dominated by local players. But new faces are now on the scene, as investors coming from outside the area are increasingly buying up Long Island office buildings. Often, these new faces are institutional investors flush with capital.
 The latest deal involves the sale of One and Two Jericho Plaza, two 300,000-square-foot office buildings in Jericho built in 1978 to 1981 and known as the ''boat buildings'' for their prowlike silhouettes. 
The SL Green Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust that is a major owner of Manhattan skyscrapers, is in contract to buy the buildings, which are being sold by Chasanoff Properties, a family-run business. The price has not been disclosed.
 ''We are seeing regional and national players that had Long Island slightly off the radar screen now focusing in on Long Island, because of the strong demographics, the strong economy and the overall strength of the office market,'' said Bruce C. Nelson, a vice president in investment properties at the commercial brokerage firm CB Richard Ellis.
 In one of the largest deals, CRIC Capital of Boston, a joint venture of CRIC and Prudential Real Estate Investors, purchased the world headquarters of CA Inc. at 1 CA Plaza, a 778,000-square-foot office building in Islandia, for $204 million.
 In another major sale last year, American Realty Advisors of Glendale, Calif., an adviser to pension funds and other groups, acquired 201 Old Country Road, a 217,000-square-foot office building in Melville, N.Y., for $48.2 million from Pitcairn-Parr L.L.C. And in 2004, Ivy Equities, a private equity investment firm based in Montvale, N.J., purchased a 400,000-square-foot portfolio of Long Island buildings owned by Heatherwood Communities for $42 million, Mr. Nelson said. 
 Some investors entering suburban areas may be trying to position themselves to take advantage of the growing interest on the part of major companies in setting up corporate headquarters in nonurban locations, said Ethan S. Nessen, a principal of CRIC Capital.
 ''I would say that of the deals we look at where you've got a major corporation wanting to lease most of or all of a building or campus, about 80 percent are in suburban markets these days,'' he said.
 Though traditionally it has had fewer corporate headquarters than some other suburbs like Westchester County, N.Y., the office market in Long Island is particularly stable compared with other suburban markets, as there is little room for new office development, Mr. Nessen said.
 ''Long Island has a finite amount of land, so over the long haul, if a tenant leaves, you've still got a very viable commodity,'' he said.
 For one relatively new investor from outside of Long Island, proximity to New York City is one attraction. In 2005, AEW Capital Management L.P., a Boston-based adviser to institutional and private investors, bought 3 Huntington Quadrangle, a 400,000-square-foot office building in Melville, for $83 million from Broadway Real Estate Partners.
 ''The advantage that Long Island has is that people are very interested in New York, but New York's gotten very expensive, so this is a way to participate in some of what's going on in the greater New York region at a lower price,'' said Michael Acton, a director of research for AEW Capital Management.
 Long Island may have first caught the attention of investors from outside the area in the mid-1990s, when a large local family-owned company, the Reckson Group, went public, becoming the Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, said David Pennetta, an executive vice president with Oxford & Simpson Realty Inc.
 Once Reckson went public, it had to disclose more details about its financial conditions. ''Reckson put a magnifying glass on Long Island and made it easy for other companies that purchased nationally to get good information about what's happening here,'' Mr. Pennetta said.
 Now, some local families that own building portfolios are choosing to take advantage of hefty offers from outside investors. Two years ago, the Tilles family sold a portfolio of buildings worth $300 million to a joint venture of the CLK Management Corporation, a property management company based on Long Island, and GHP Office Realty, based in White Plains, which specializes in acquiring leasing and managing commercial properties in suburban markets around New York City.
 ''Some of the biggest privately owned portfolios, and even a public portfolio, have turned over,'' said Mitchell Rechler, a former executive at Reckson Associates and now managing partner of Rechler Equity Partners, one of the largest owners of industrial space on Long Island. ''I think investors are starting to understand the dynamics of Long Island better.''
 That may be making it harder for some local investment firms to compete. C. Glenn Schor, a co-founder and chief operating officer of the Treeline Companies, an owner and investor in Long Island commercial real estate, said his firm typically purchases buildings only in off-market deals, in which it learns of a property that is for sale before its availability has been widely listed.
 Recently, Treeline took on a Manhattan-based investment partner, First Point Partners, to purchase Franklin Avenue Plaza, a 520,000-square-foot, four-building complex in Garden City, for $98.7 million.
 ''We don't buy the transactions that are published in the national books, because the price competition on those is so severe,'' Mr. Schor said. 
 Mr. Pennetta said that the influx of capital from outsiders was bringing about improvements in Long Island's office building stock but that it would also drive up lease rates.
 ''When you're paying these very high prices for portfolios, you're in a different cost basis than the local guy you bought it from, so you have to get higher rents,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: SL Green Realty is in contract to buy One and Two Jericho Plaza, two office buildings in Jericho, N.Y. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); SUBURBS (85%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

COMPANY: CA INC (82%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (71%); CBRE GROUP INC (55%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Sl Green Realty Corp; Chasanoff Properties

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (82%); SLG (NYSE) (71%); CBG (NYSE) (55%); RLE (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (55%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (55%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: Alison Gregor

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



590 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: 2 Cities and 4 Bridges Where Commerce Flows

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: JUAREZ, Mexico 

 BODY:
Much like Oakland and San Francisco, El Paso and Juarez are neighboring cities that coexist in a larger regional economy. Juarez and El Paso, however, are separated by more than a body of water, the Rio Grande; they are also divided by the United States-Mexico border. And that border, connected by four bridges, has become one of the busiest crossings in the world. 
 Much of the commercial traffic over the Rio Grande is driven by the growing light-assembly sector in Juarez, which is now absorbing more new industrial real estate space than any other North American city, according to the El Paso Regional Economic Development Corporation. Approximately five million new square feet a year are being added by existing or newly located corporations engaged in assembling products like computers, mobile phones, appliances, auto parts and medical devices.
''The two cities function symbiotically,'' said Bob Cook, president of the nonprofit economic development corporation. ''And that is a reflection of the two countries functioning symbiotically. In 2006, we had $55 billion of U.S.-Mexico trade crossing through this border, 18 percent of all U.S.-Mexico trade. There are 267,000 people employed in manufacturing in the El Paso- Juarez region.'' 
 Production sharing in the El Paso-Juarez region, while nothing new, has become increasingly complex. High-tech parts are manufactured in the United States and abroad, then shipped to Juarez for assembly and trucked across the border to El Paso, which has 55 million square feet of distribution space, before being dispersed throughout the United States. 
 Many international corporations -- based in Europe, North America, Japan and, increasingly, China and Taiwan -- build their own plants. For instance, Electrolux, a Swedish appliance manufacturer, is expanding its Juarez campus by more than a million square feet to assemble refrigerators.
 But job growth and the availability of land in what had previously been thought of as the middle of nowhere have also drawn commercial real estate developers from the United States. Verde Corporate Realty Services, based in El Paso, has invested along the entire United States-Mexico border from Tijuana to Monterrey over the last five years, but most heavily in Juarez . 
 The company buys land and builds industrial spaces on speculation (that is, without a committed leaseholder). To date, Verde has completed two million square feet and owns enough land to build almost three million more.
 Because building in Mexico is considered riskier, investors require a higher rate of return, which makes for higher rents. A building similar to one that Verde leases for about $5 a square foot in Juarez would bring about $3.80 in El Paso. 
 The main reason to build in Juarez, of course, is the low cost of labor, not construction costs. At $38 to $42 per square foot to construct, Verde spends more to build in Juarez than it would in El Paso.
 These new light assembly buildings are not the cheap, polluting maquiladoras of popular imagination, but modern high-tech buildings that would not be out of place in suburban Dallas. For instance, Verde recently completed a 217,000-square-foot building and leased it to the Visteon Corporation, an auto parts supplier that has more than 170 facilities in 24 countries. 
 ''When a company from the U.S. goes to China, 10 percent of the components come from the U.S.,'' said Christopher Lyons, director of capital markets for Verde. ''But when a company relocates to Juarez , even a Chinese company, many of the components come from the United States. As globalization continues, by working with Mexico, we can keep some of that manufacturing in the U.S.''
 In addition to the low cost of labor, there are a number of other reasons that multinational corporations are putting their light assembly in Juarez. In the case of China, in addition to being close to the United States consumer market, it is a hedge against possible protectionist measures.
 For other companies, like Electrolux, shipping large appliances over long distances is cumbersome, and port security is getting tougher. When it comes to time-sensitive products, like computers and mobile phones, Mexico offers the advantage of getting the goods to market more quickly than if they had to be shipped across an ocean.
 ''The closer those things can be assembled and shipped to the consumer market, the more the company saves,'' said Rafael Garcia-Rovirosa, a vice president for marketing at Verde, on a tour of the Juarez industrial region.
 While most manufacturing companies own their own facilities, Prudential Real Estate Investors, like Verde, began speculative building here in 2004 and has already invested $100 million. Its strategy is to be a partner with local investors, like Bermudez International, founded in 1965. The joint venture controls about 12 million square feet of industrial space. 
 ''Juarez 30 years ago was 30,000 people,'' said Sergio Bermudez, president and chief executive of Bermudez International. ''Now it's a million and a half. With El Paso, there are 2.4 million people. The future growth of both the U.S. and Mexico is along the border.'' 
 While Juarez experienced a downturn in 2001, it has rebounded since then, with an average job growth rate of 5 percent since 2004, according to Desarrollo Economico de Ciudad Juarez, an economic development corporation. And with all of those jobs come workers who need places to live. 
 To that end, the largest home builder in Juarez , Grupo Ruba, has built 30,000 homes since 2000; most sell for $15,000 to $30,000. 
 Depending on income and length of employment, workers are able to apply for ''credits'' through a government run program called Infonavit, which issues 30-year mortgages and is financed in part by a 5 percent payroll tax.
 While the program has existed since 1972, Infonavit has grown rapidly in recent years. It now issues two of every three mortgages in Mexico, helping to create a boom in low- and moderate-income housing.
 ''We used to have land enough for one year,'' said Luis Enrique Terrazas, vice president of Grupo Ruba. ''Now the strategy is to have enough for five years. There is a housing deficit in Juarez, and all over Mexico, so speculators are now buying land and flipping it. We're trying to get ahead of that.''
 Those involved in economic development are quick to point out, however, that in addition to low-income housing and assembly jobs, corporate expansion in Juarez has created thousands of engineering, design and managerial jobs as well. Many of these people work in Juarez , live in El Paso and shop and dine in both places. Consequently, they cross the border regularly, speeding through the dedicated commuter lanes on two of the bridges that span the river (after passing a Homeland Security background check).
 In fact, the El Paso-Juarez region is the largest bilingual, binational work force in the Western Hemisphere, according to a labor report by the Wadley-Donovan Group, a management consulting firm.
 To further strengthen this connection, the cities of Juarez and El Paso worked together to design a master plan for redeveloping both downtowns, including an 11-block binational arts district connected by the main bridge. The first major developers under this master plan are expected to be announced within weeks. 
 The plans to link the two cities more closely have, like many border issues, stirred dissent. But many people here believe that the well-established relationship between the cities transcends not only the border but also the current political climate.
 ''When the Minutemen came here, everyone ignored them,'' said Mr. Cook, referring to the American citizen-led border patrol. ''A stable and prosperous Mexico is the best way to deal with illegal immigration.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tatung, the Taiwanese computer manufacturer, above, has joined other companies in Juarez, Mexico. With a manufacturing boom attracting workers, new housing developments, left, are springing up to accommodate them. (Photographs by Christ Chavez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (88%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); CITIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); MEDICAL DEVICES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%) International Trade and World Market; Labor; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: El Paso Regional Economic Development Corp

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain; Bob Cook

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%) El Paso (Tex); Juarez (Mexico); Mexico; Rio Grande River

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



591 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: First, a New Artery Stent Study; Now, Questions About What It All Means

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, March 27 

 BODY:
Is today the first in a new era for angioplasty and stenting, the artery-clearing technology that enchanted doctors while giving birth to a multibillion-dollar industry? 
 Many heart specialists at the annual scientific meeting here of the American College of Cardiology said it ought to be, based on a report Monday that found little additional value in giving stents to most heart patients as long as they received the right medicines.
 ''We were amazed at how well people did with medical therapy,'' said Dr. William Weintraub, chief of cardiology at the Christiana Care Health System in Newark, Del., who is leading the analysis of the economic and quality of life data from the trial. The trial focused on patients with severe constrictions in their arteries that were causing angina chest pains or other symptoms but were not immediately life-threatening.
 Device makers and some doctors, however, doubted that the trial would have broad impact. They noted several reasons to question the results, starting with the fact that only 3 percent of the stented patients in the trial received the latest drug-coated models. Those models were just reaching the market when enrollment in the study ended in 2004. 
 Whether the trial results lead to a change in the use of stents depends on how the doctors and patients react. In any event, the research comes as sales have already been dropping because of safety concerns. 
 Estimates from doctors and analysts of the number of stent patients whose conditions resembled those in the trial ranged from 20 percent to as much as 80 percent.
 Marshall Gordon, who follows device makers for Credit Suisse Securities in New York, said that in conversations with cardiologists, 30 percent to 40 percent of them said they would recommend less angioplasty. But, he cautioned, it was too soon to know how the practice would unfold. 
 Dr. Salim Yusuf, a Canadian cardiologist who has argued that stents are overused, questioned how much impact the study would have.
 ''We're going to have a hell of a time putting the genie back in the bottle,'' Dr. Yusuf said to the researchers gathered Tuesday. ''It's a $15 billion to $20 billion industry. You have huge vested interests that are going to push you back.''
 Dr. Yusuf was referring not just to device makers but also to interventional cardiologists, the specialists who do angioplasty and stenting. The technology was born 30 years ago when Dr. Andreas Gruentzig first used a catheter threaded into a coronary artery to inflate a tiny balloon inside a developing blockage. 
 The arrival of a minimally invasive alternative to bypass surgery for restoring blood flow to ailing hearts led to a rush of investment in device companies. Small fortunes were made in the mid-1990s when stents were invented in response to angioplasty's biggest shortcoming -- the tendency of arteries to quickly reclose.
 Those fortunes became giant ones when drug-coated stents were introduced in the United States in 2003, sending the number of patients returning for repeat procedures below 10 percent. The Taxus stent from Boston Scientific, which arrived in 2004, achieved more sales in its first year than any health care product in history.
 By last year, more than 60 percent of the patients getting stents had more complex blockages than those the drug-coated stents had been tested on in clinical trials, according to federal regulatory officials. Then reports began emerging that deadly clots could form in the drug-coated stents long after implantation.
 Sales began dropping on uncertainty about the stents' safety even though the data showed that the problem affected only a handful of patients out of every thousand. The available data, which some doctors say is inadequate, suggests that the clotting is not frequent enough to make the new stents less safe than the older bare-metal devices they have largely supplanted.
 A decline in sales last year reflected some switching to the cheaper bare-metal stents, but by the end of the year, the total number of procedures was falling for the first time.
 Now the question is whether the new trial data will accelerate the decline and make it harder for the companies to reverse with new products that might be safer. 
 Medical therapy -- which to cardiologists means a combination of modern drugs, exercise, healthy diets and almost anything else that does not break the patient's skin -- was so successful at relieving angina that Dr. Weintraub and others said angioplasty should be used as a fallback, after the drug treatments failed in patients like those in the trial. 
 In common practice, many such patients get angioplasty and stents because they are sent to interventional cardiologists for angiograms -- X-rays of the blood vessels sustaining the heart muscle. The angiogram requires inserting a thin catheter to deliver a dye to the arteries being pictured. Because the same system is used to deploy the tiny angioplasty balloons that create channels through blockages and then to implant stents to prop the vessel open, interventional cardiologists often do such procedures immediately after a major blockage is identified.
 ''It's very difficult to turn your back on the angiogram and not fix what's there,'' Dr. William Boden, a lead investigator in the trial, said. 
 Yet that is exactly what the trial results suggest that doctors could safely do in patients like those studied. Two-thirds ended up not needing angioplasty and stents. The one-third whose symptoms worsened to the point that they underwent stenting or bypass surgery did not suffer higher rates of death, heart attacks or hospitalization if stenting was delayed to try aggressive medical therapy first, the trial found. 
 In the trial, patients who received angioplasty and stents got quicker and more complete relief initially. By the end of five years, 74 percent of that group and 72 percent of the patients assigned to the medical therapy group had no symptoms of the chest pains -- in essence, statistically speaking, an identical outcome.
 Dr. Weintraub said on Monday that the trial data suggested that the cost of gaining an additional year of improved quality of life from stenting came out to $217,000 a patient, because so many patients gained nothing. That data, however, covered such a broad range of individual outcomes that he cautioned against relying too much on it. More notably, he said, the data suggested that 1 percent of stenting patients gained an additional year of improved quality of life for less than $50,000, a commonly used standard for whether medical resources were being used wisely.
 But all of the researchers stressed that angioplasty with stenting was still the preferred therapy for many less-stable patients. Some doctors said they were worried that patients reading about Courage, as the new study is called, might get the wrong impression. 
 ''If someone comes in with a heart attack, you could lose vital time having to convince a patient or family member it's appropriate,'' Dr. Ralph Brindis, a cardiologist in San Francisco, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOLOGY (92%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HEART DISEASE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); MINIMALLY INVASIVE SURGERY (73%) Heart; Stents (Medical Devices); Angioplasty (Surgical Procedure); Doctors; Research; Tests and Testing; Heart; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Sales

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COLLEGE OF CARDIOLOGY (84%) American College of Cardiology; Christiana Care Health System

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: Barnaby J Feder; William (Dr) Weintraub

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



592 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: New Effort to Tap Technology To Aid the Service Economy

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
A group of large technology companies, universities and professional associations are creating a new organization to support and promote research into ways that technology can increase productivity and innovation in the economy's service sector. 
 The creation of the organization, the Service Research and Innovation Initiative, will be officially announced today. It represents the latest step by technology companies and some universities to promote an emerging field that is being called ''service science.''
The early academic programs are a blend of computing, social sciences, engineering and management. The aim of service science is to try to improve productivity and accelerate the development of new offerings in services, which account for about 80 percent of the United States economy and similarly large shares of other Western economies.
 In the last couple of years, more than three dozen universities in several countries have added service science courses, and the National Science Foundation has begun financing a few service research projects. 
 Among corporations, I.B.M. has been a leader in promoting service science programs in universities, and it has reoriented its own research laboratories to focus more on services. 
 ''We need a professional organization to help promote service science,'' said James C. Spohrer, director of service research at the I.B.M. Almaden Research Center in San Jose, Calif. ''It is one of the seed crystals around which the new discipline will form.''
 I.B.M. and Oracle are founding corporate members of the Service Research and Innovation Initiative. Other company members of the organization's advisory board include Accenture, Cisco, Computer Sciences, EMC, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft and Xerox. 
 Researchers from several universities are also members, including some from the University of California, Los Angeles; the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania; and Arizona State University. The European Commission and a German research organization, the Fraunhofer Institute, are also members of the advisory committee.
 The new initiative is backed by two professional societies, the Technology Professional Services Association and the Service and Support Professionals Association. The executive director of the new organization, Thomas W. Pridham, is the senior vice president for advanced programs of the service and support professionals group.
 J. B. Wood, the chief executive of both the longstanding professional groups, said the purpose of the new effort was to have a neutral, nonprofit professional organization around which to build a community of common interest. ''The investment in research by companies and the government has driven so much innovation on the hardware side of information technology,'' Mr. Wood said. ''We think there is a similar opportunity in services.''
 The new organization, according to Mr. Pridham, will provide a forum for collaboration to help set research priorities, pool corporate funds to support academic programs, and advise the government on preferred targets of basic research. It will hold a symposium on service research on May 30 in Santa Clara, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (68%) United States Economy; Service Industries; Research; Productivity; Computers and the Internet; Engineering and Engineers; United States Economy; United States Economy

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (90%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%) Service Research and Innovation Institute; International Business Machines Corp; Oracle Corp; Accenture (Co); Cisco Systems; Computer Sciences Corp; Emc Corp; Hewlett-Packard Co; Microsoft Corp; Xerox Corp; University of California (Los Angeles); Wharton School of Finance and Commerce (University of Penna); Arizona State University; European Union

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (90%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



593 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Weak Housing Report Weighs on Shares

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks stumbled yesterday as new data raised the possibility that weakness in the housing market would seep into the broader economy and crimp consumer spending.
 A housing index released by Standard & Poor's showed that prices of single-family homes fell in January, compared with a year ago, in their worst showing since January 2004. Also, Lennar, one of the nation's largest home builders, said its first-quarter profit plummeted 73 percent and warned that it probably would not meet its 2007 earnings guidance.
Wall Street has been nervous lately that a drop in housing values will further weaken subprime mortgage lenders, which make loans to people with poor credit, and could reduce spending as consumers feel less wealthy. Consumer spending makes up about two-thirds of American economic activity. 
 The Conference Board said yesterday that its March consumer confidence index fell to 107.2, the lowest since November and a larger decline than Wall Street expected. The February index, which had been reported at 112.5, its highest in five and a half years, was revised to 111.2.
 Analysts noted, however, that lower confidence did not necessarily translate to a drop in spending, especially with a stable labor market. Furthermore, the Dow Jones industrials rose every day last week and the recent pullback has erased only a small portion of that 370-point weekly gain, the largest since March 2003.
 ''While the market remains on the cautious side, there was a nice little bounce since mid-March,'' said Edward Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. ''Investors are just looking over their shoulders, wondering if the problems in the housing market and subprime market are going to spill over.''
 The Dow fell 71.78 points, to 12,397.29, edging back into negative territory for the year. Broader stock indicators also fell, but remain higher for 2007. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 8.89 points, to 1,428.61, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 18.20 points, to 2,437.43. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was down 6.58 points, at 802.36.
 Crude oil prices rose 2 cents, to $62.93 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gasoline prices have risen sharply in recent weeks, giving many Americans another reason to keep a tight budget.
 Lennar fell 4 cents, to $44.50, after reporting that softness in the housing market would keep eating into profits. Stocks of other home builders tumbled on Lennar's outlook and the S.& P.'s home price data. D. R. Horton, Toll Brothers, Pulte Homes and KB Home fell more than 1 percent, and Hovnanian Enterprises more than 2 percent.
 Transportation stocks also fell. CSX fell more than 2 percent; Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Union Pacific fell more than 1 percent.
 Though the weakness in housing and manufacturing is weighing on stocks now, some say it could eventually give the market a boost if investors are persuaded that the Federal Reserve will not raise interest rates to curb inflation.
 ''There's enough softness in the economy that the Fed's not going to raise rates,'' Mr. Yardeni said. ''It's a delicate balancing act here -- investors don't mind softness in the economy as long as it's not a recession.''
 Today, investors will be listening to testimony by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, for clues about the economy's direction, and reading the Commerce Department's report on orders of durable goods for February.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was unchanged, at 100 6/32, as was the yield, at 4.60 percent. Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills.(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price: 99.601High Rate: 5.130Coupon Yield: 5.236Low Rate: 5.020Median Rate: 5.125Total applied for: $63,966,303Accepted: $26,206,293Noncompetitive: $470,910The four-week bills mature April 26, 2007.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BONDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (85%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (58%); D R HORTON INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (50%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (50%); KB HOME CORP (50%); PULTEGROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (85%); HOV (NYSE) (58%); DHI (NYSE) (58%); UNP (NYSE) (50%); KBH (NYSE) (50%); PHM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (50%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



594 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Regulator Favors Standards Against Predatory Lending

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
The chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Sheila C. Bair, said Tuesday that Congress should set standards to protect borrowers against predatory lenders, becoming the first top regulator to urge a legislative solution for the subprime problem. 
 ''The time has come for national antipredatory-lending standards,'' she said at a House Financial Services subcommittee hearing in Washington. Legislation ''should raise the bar by strengthening protections available to borrowers'' and be broad enough to cover state-regulated lenders, she said.
At a separate hearing, Christopher Cox, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said the commission had set up a 25-member enforcement unit to investigate possible fraud involving subprime mortgage lenders.
 The S.E.C. is examining whether appropriate disclosures were made to investors who bought portfolios of subprime mortgages packaged into securities, Mr. Cox said at a House Appropriations subcommittee hearing.
 He did not identify any companies the new unit was investigating. New Century Financial, a subprime lender that is struggling to avoid bankruptcy, disclosed on March 13 that the S.E.C. had requested documents as part of a ''preliminary investigation.''
 The House Financial Services subcommittee hearing was the second in a week on the meltdown in mortgages made to the riskiest borrowers. Regulators also testified Thursday before the Senate Banking Committee, where senators chastised them for not acting sooner. 
 At the Senate hearing, the Federal Reserve's chief bank supervisor, Roger T. Cole, conceded that the central bank could have stepped in earlier to prevent the subprime-mortgage meltdown by curbing lax lending standards.
 ''Given what we know now, yes, we could have done more, sooner,'' Mr. Cole said. 
 In Tuesday's hearing, however, the Fed's chief consumer affairs officer, Sandra F. Braunstein, told lawmakers the central bank had no timetable for setting new rules.
 Ms. Braunstein, the Fed's director of consumer and community affairs, cautioned that the threat of lawsuits stemming from perceived violations of new rules ''could end up cutting off, constraining credit.''
 Legislators called the hearings after delinquencies on subprime mortgages jumped to 13.3 percent last quarter, the highest since September 2002. The late payments are occurring at a time of economic expansion and an unemployment rate, at 4.5 percent, that is close to a five-year low -- suggesting that poor underwriting standards are behind the problem.
 Legislators pressed the officials on whether they supported the concept of a law setting a minimum standard for loans, like ensuring that borrowers have the ability to pay back the debt even after low introductory rates are set higher.
 Ms. Braunstein said the Fed board had not taken a position on a federal pre-emptive lending standard.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheila C. Bair of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, with John M. Reich, director of the Office of Thrift Supervision. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREDATORY LENDING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); LITIGATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Housing; Mortgages; Frauds and Swindling; Consumer Protection; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (91%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%) Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission; Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (90%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (90%); CHRISTOPHER COX (79%) Shelia C (Asst Sec) Bair; Christopher (Chmn) Cox; Roger T Cole; Sandra F Braunstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



595 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
Prospects for Congressional approval of several pending trade pacts received a surprising lift on Tuesday when Democrats in the House proposed a series of revisions that won guarded praise from both organized labor and the Bush administration.
 The Democratic proposals would require that the trade accords include provisions protecting the rights of workers, the environment and the right of trading partners to make cheap generic pharmaceuticals for use in their countries, all of which had previously been resisted by the administration.
Charles B. Rangel, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, won approval of the proposals from the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and other leading Democrats by using language aimed at strengthening these rights while trying to meet some administration concerns. 
 What was unusual about the proposals is that they were praised by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. as an improvement of the pending deals with Colombia, Panama and Peru and a pact being negotiated with South Korea. 
 The proposals were also welcomed by the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab. 
 Ms. Schwab hinted that the administration might seek to make some changes in the Democrats' proposals, which were embodied in a 15-page document submitted to her office but not released to the public.
 But Republicans, speaking anonymously, said the administration would have little choice but to accept the broad outlines of the Democrats' proposals if it wanted to win passage in a Democratic-controlled Congress. 
 ''This is another step in what has been a good-faith effort in a continuing dialogue by all sides,'' Ms. Schwab said. She is expected to meet with Mr. Rangel and Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana, the ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Committee, with a goal of reaching an accord before the end of the week. Mr. McCrery also welcomed the Democrats' proposals.
 Mr. Rangel said that he believed the negotiations would be successful.
 ''There may be some things I don't know about that they won't like,'' he said. ''But I don't know of any objections that can't be worked out. The thing is, everyone is pretty upbeat about this.''
 By themselves, the accords on Colombia, Peru and Panama are not considered economically significant. But Democrats and Republicans in Congress see them as a test for what the administration might be willing to accept in future trade deals.
 The administration, for example, hopes to salvage a global trade deal in coming months that would lower tariff barriers in 180 countries worldwide, allowing the United States to export financial services, manufactured goods and farm products to scores of countries that now have tariffs or other barriers.
 The global deal under the so-called Doha round of negotiations -- named after the city in Qatar where the talks started several years ago -- has been stalled for nearly a year. Also pending is the request of President Bush that his own authority to negotiate trade deals and get an up-or-down vote in Congress be extended beyond its current expiration date of June 30.
 The administration must submit trade deals at least 90 days before the expiration of that authority, which means that any changes in the Latin American trade pacts, and also in the one being negotiated with South Korea, would have to be submitted with the changes sought by Democrats this week.
 Some lawmakers say that whatever is agreed to on these deals could provide a template for the other deals, opening the possibility for more to be approved even at a time when the administration and Democrats are at odds on a range of budget, tax and economic regulatory policies.
 In addition, Democrats say that even if Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Rangel and other party leaders in the House support the Latin American or South Korean deals, a large number of Democrats in the House and Senate would most likely oppose them on principle.
 In the Senate, for example, several newly elected freshmen ran on campaigns calling for no more trade deals under the Bush administration. On the other hand, Mr. Rangel and Ms. Pelosi are under pressure from Wall Street, the high-technology industry and other economic sectors to support lower trade barriers.
 Mr. Rangel said he understood that no matter what, some Democrats will oppose trade deals, and that some Republicans will as well. 
 ''There's going to be a coalition vote for trade with moderates in both parties in support,'' he said. ''We are not going to have an appeal to the extremes like we've had in the past. I think the moderates are going to give a larger vote than ever for trade.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GENERIC DRUGS (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (62%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (78%); JIM MCCRERY (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (92%); PANAMA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



596 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Rush for Uranium; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: Mines in the West Reopen as Ore Prices Reach Highs of the 1970s

BYLINE: By SUSAN MORAN and ANNE RAUP

DATELINE: LA SAL, Utah 

 BODY:
Given its connotations, Pandora is an oddly inappropriate name for an uranium mine.
 But that does not seem to bother Denison Mines, the company from Vancouver, British Columbia, that owns it. Denison recently reopened this mine about 30 miles southeast of Moab, along with several others in nearby western Colorado, after it lay dormant during the years when the nation shunned nuclear power.
The revival of uranium mining in the West, though, has less to do with the renewed interest in nuclear power as an alternative to greenhouse-gas-belching coal plants than to the convoluted economics and intense speculation surrounding the metal that has pushed up the price of uranium to levels not seen since the heyday of the industry in the mid-1970s. 
 ''There's a lot of staking going on,'' said Mike Shumway, a 53-year-old Vietnam veteran who owns the contracting business that is working the Pandora mine. ''It's like the gold rush.'' 
 Mr. Shumway has personally amassed some 100 uranium claims, including four dormant but potentially rich mines. Some of the claims he bought quietly after less tenacious prospectors could not afford to hold theirs during the long drought while uranium was out of favor. Mr. Shumway's eyes light up and he cracks a grin as he ponders the fortune he now hopes to gain.
 ''There's big money in it,'' he said as he probed piles of waste ore at Pandora with a Geiger counter. ''What other work do you know of where you can make millions in 30 days?'' 
 Not many. Prices for processed uranium ore, also called U308, or yellowcake, are rising rapidly. Yellowcake is trading at $90 a pound, nearing the record high, adjusted for inflation, of about $120 in the mid-1970s. The price has more than doubled in the last six months alone. As recently as late 2002, it was below $10.
 A string of natural disasters, notably flooding of large mines in Canada and Australia, has set off the most recent spike. Hedge funds and other institutional investors, who began buying up uranium in late 2004 to exploit the volatility in this relatively small market, have accelerated the price rally. 
 But the more fundamental causes of the uninterrupted ascendance of prices since 2003 can be traced to inventory constraints among power companies and a drying up of the excess supply of uranium from old Soviet-era nuclear weapons that was converted to use in power plants. Add in to those factors the expected surge in demand from China, India, Russia and a few other countries for new nuclear power plants to fuel their growing economies.
 ''I'd call it lucky timing,'' said David Miller, a Wyoming legislator and president of the Strathmore Mineral Corporation, a uranium development firm. ''Three relatively independent factors -- dwindling supplies of inventory, low overall production from the handful of uranium miners that survived the 25-year drought and rising concerns about global warming -- all have coincided to drive the current uranium price higher by more than 1,000 percent since 2001.''
 Strathmore controls more than three million acres of exploration projects in Canada and previously discovered sources in the United States, primarily around Grants, N.M. In its heyday, the Grants ''uranium belt'' provided 340 million pounds of uranium, making New Mexico an even larger producer than Utah or Wyoming. Some politicians in the area hope there will be a new wave of mines, mills and jobs. 
 Strathmore, with a market capitalization of $300 million, is one of about 400 publicly traded uranium stock companies (most of them, like Strathmore, trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange). Many of the companies are much smaller. Some are essentially shells. 
 ''There's so much money pouring into this sector,'' said Julie Ickes, editor and publisher of StockInterview.com, which tracks uranium prices and companies. ''If you put 'uranium' in your company name, you can look like you're looking for property,'' he said. ''It's a lot of talk.''
 The feverish trading in speculative uranium company shares harks back to the early 1950s, when some 500 stocks traded on the Salt Lake City Penny Stock Exchange. Moab called itself ''the uranium capital of the world.'' 
 ''You could say there were more millionaires than people here in Moab,'' said Sam Taylor, 73, who has been publisher of the local weekly, The Times-Independent, since he took it over from his father in 1956.
 Sitting stooped over his wooden desk at the newspaper's office downtown, Mr. Taylor recalls how he got ''the scoop of the century'' when a young, cocky geologist named Charlie Steen pulled up in his battered jeep asking if The Times-Independent would publish his six-page paper on his recent discovery of pitchblende, or high-grade uranium. 
 Not long after, Moab lost its quietude and anonymity to the ore trucks roaring through town almost around the clock to deliver uranium to a mill on the north edge of town. 
 Globally, 180 million pounds of processed uranium are consumed each year by nuclear power plants. Production worldwide from mines amounts to only 100 million pounds. Roughly 75 million pounds come out of utility company stockpiles. What is actually traded in the spot market is only about 35 million pounds.
 Some industry watchers fear the uranium market is entering the bust phase of another boom-bust cycle.
 ''It's like the tech bubble,'' said James Finch, senior editor of StockInterview.com. ''We're waiting for the crash.'' 
 But others see plenty of room for prices to climb. One is Bob Mitchell, founder of Adit Capital, a small hedge fund in Portland, Ore. In December of 2004, he became one of the first hedge fund managers to start buying uranium. 
 Since then other hedge funds and institutional investors have jumped into the market, some of them hoarding uranium while the price keeps rising. Even some established mining production companies are spinning off or becoming partners with hedge funds. 
 Uranium executives, investors and analysts alike agree that a major underlying cause of the current bull market is that mines are not generating enough uranium to meet growing demand. The supply constraints can be traced back to the end of the cold war when the United States and the former Soviet Union started converting enriched uranium from dismantled atomic weapons into nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes. 
 That program, and huge incentives offered to uranium companies by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, flooded the market with excess supply. At the same time, demand shrank. The price of uranium fell sharply.
 As a result, most uranium producers scaled back or closed their mines. Some companies sold themselves to French, Canadian and British corporations, which now dominate the industry. Some companies with nuclear power operations sold some of their inventories when the price was low to avoid storage costs.
 But by 2003 uranium inventories held by utilities in the United States were coming back into balance. Then a series of natural disasters -- flooding of the world's largest uranium mine, McArthur River in Canada, and more recently at other mines in Canada and Australia -- further pinched supply. Power companies now find themselves competing with aggressive institutional investors for high-price uranium. 
 ''For so long they'd been the buyer in a buyer's market,'' said Gene Clark, chief executive of TradeTech.com, a publisher of reports and data on the nuclear fuel market. ''Now they're like a wallflower. It's hard on their egos.''
 James Malone, vice president of nuclear fuels at the Exelon Corporation, the Chicago-based utility that owns 17 reactors at 10 sites, making it the largest nuclear operator in the country, said in a telephone interview that current market conditions were having a ''small impact'' on some of the company's contracts that were pegged to the market price. He declined to elaborate.
 The people staking claims and drilling underground are, in the meantime, happy to see the frothy market become frothier. So far this year, 2,700 new uranium claims have been filed with the Bureau of Land Management in Colorado alone. That is nearly half the claims filed in all of last year, and a big jump from the 104 claims for 2004.
 ''It's pretty spectacular,'' said Jesse Broskey, a land law adjudicator with the bureau. ''It's tripled our workload.''
 But many people in the region, including leaders of the Navajo Nation, are not particularly excited to invite Pandora and other participants in the nuclear industry back into their communities. They say the mining and power companies poisoned workers and residents, in some cases fatally, with radon, silica and tainted groundwater.
 More stringent federal oversight means that mines built or refurbished today provide much better ventilation, which minimizes the underground risks. Mine operators are required to take readings of radon levels and air flow in the mines, and to measure miners' exposure doses.
 Another red flag, for environmentalists and utilities alike, is the lack of a national storage site for radioactive waste. The proposed home, Yucca Mountain in Nevada, has cost taxpayers billions over many years as it sits idly, waiting for a final decision. 
 That is one of several factors holding back the revival of nuclear power in the United States. ''We won't build a new plant knowing there's nowhere to put the used fuel,'' Mr. Malone of Exelon said. ''We won't build one without community support, and we won't build until market conditions are in place where it makes sense.''
 But that is not holding back Kyle Kimmerle, owner of the Kimmerle Funeral Home in Moab. Mr. Kimmerle, 30, spent summers during his childhood camping and working at several of his father's mines in the area. In his spare time he has amassed more than 600 uranium claims throughout the once-productive Colorado Plateau. 
 ''My guess is that next year my name won't be on the sign of this funeral home anymore and I'll be out at the mines,'' he said.
 He recently struck a deal with a company to lease 111 of his claims for development. The company, new to uranium mining, has pledged $500,000 a year for five years to improve the properties. Mr. Kimmerle will receive annual payments plus royalties for any uranium mined from the area.
 ''Everybody's jumping in while the price is going up,'' he said. ''Sure, it'll eventually go down. It's not going to be in three years. But after 10 years I'd say all bets are off.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kyle Kimmerle, who operates a funeral home in Moab, Utah, walks along one of his 600 uranium mining claims on the Colorado Plateau. (Photographs by Anne Raup)(pg. C1)
Dilapidated equipment from dormant uranium mines dot the area near Moab in southeastern Utah. This structure was made to load ore.
 Mike Shumway steps past waste rock at the Pandora mine in Utah. He owns a contracting business that is working at the reopened mine. (Photographs by Anne Raup)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Limited Supply and Growing Demand''A diminishing inventory, a decrease in production and a growing concern about global warming have driven the price of uranium ore to levels not seen since the industry boom in the mid-1970s.Graph tracks uranium prices in dollars per pound (nominal and adjusted for inflation) since 1950.Map of the western United States highlighting conventional uranium mines.(Map tracks mines that are still operating as well as those which were operating in 1981 but are now closed)(Source by TradeTech, Department of Energy)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URANIUM MINING (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (55%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DENISON MINES CORP (58%)

TICKER: DNN (NYSE MKT) (58%); DML (TSX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (58%); SIC1094 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (73%) UTAH, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



597 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Upgraded Version of Xbox 360 To Be Introduced by Microsoft

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

 BODY:
Raising the ante in the video game wars, Microsoft is bringing out a new version of the Xbox 360 game machine that has a bigger hard drive, better high-definition video support and a stylish black finish, not an insignificant feature in a world where looking cool ranks high. 
 The idea is to appeal to an elite class of hardcore game players who would like a little more of everything.
 ''Today's games-and-entertainment enthusiast has an insatiable appetite for digital high-definition content,'' said Peter Moore, corporate vice president for Microsoft's interactive entertainment business, in Redmond, Wash. 
 The Xbox 360 Elite, which is to be announced today and will be in stores in late April, will have a list price of $479, or $80 more than the Xbox 360 Pro and $180 more than the basic Xbox 360. The new model has a 120-gigabyte hard drive, in contrast to the standard model's 20-gigabyte drive. It also has a high-definition multimedia interface port and cable and a wireless controller and headset. Current Xbox 360 owners can buy the new 120-gigabyte hard drive as a separate accessory for $179. 
 Microsoft is clearly hoping to fill what it sees as a hole at the top end of the market. The Nintendo Wii has been outselling the PlayStation 3 from Sony and the Xbox 360 in recent months, but that system is largely positioned as a family-friendly game machine that can be purchased for $50 less than the lowest-priced Xbox. The Sony system is priced higher than both the Nintendo and the Microsoft systems, with the cheapest model priced at $499.
 Both Microsoft and Sony have positioned their consoles as entertainment hubs, not just for playing sophisticated video games but also for listening to music and viewing downloaded movies and television shows. 
 John Rodman, group product manager for the Xbox platform and Xbox Live, pointed to a recent Microsoft survey that revealed that nearly 40 percent of the time that Xbox 360 users spent with their consoles was for activities other than gaming. 
 Yet when it comes to gaming, Xbox 360 users are serious, Mr. Rodman says. Six out of 10 Xbox 360 users use Xbox Live, Microsoft's online gaming service. 
 ''We don't feel like the Wii customer and the Xbox customer are the same thing,'' he said. ''We think that as soon as the Wii customer turns 14 they want something else.''
 James L. McQuivey, an analyst at Forrester Research, said that Microsoft hoped to encourage customers to spend more money downloading movies and games, which require considerable hard-drive space. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (90%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (89%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (89%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (78%); HARD DRIVES (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); GAMING (58%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Computer and Video Games; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); NINTENDO CO LTD (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corp

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 7974 (TSE) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Laurie J Flynn

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



598 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers In Albany Near Deal On Budget

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 27 

 BODY:
In a major step toward passing a state budget by the April 1 deadline, Gov. Eliot Spitzer and state legislative leaders agreed Tuesday night to add at least $850 million to his proposed budget and appeared to have resolved the main issues that divided them. 
 The deal involved several key concessions by the governor to Senate Republicans. Under the terms of the deal, the governor agreed to restore $350 million of the $1.3 billion worth of health care cuts he had proposed. He also said he would add $500 million in new education aid, addressing the concerns of Senate Republicans that too much money was being diverted away from wealthier districts, especially on Long Island. 
The governor also agreed to distribute new property tax relief in the form of rebate checks instead of sending the money to school districts, acceding to a demand of Senate Republicans. But the governor said the Senate had agreed to direct most of the aid to the middle class, as he had wanted, with some modifications to his plan. 
 And he said he would offset his proposals to close corporate tax loopholes by reducing taxes on businesses. 
 The deal would add $850 million in state spending to the governor's $120.6 billion budget, and certainly more when matching federal funds for Medicaid are considered.
 ''I'm very confident that what we have here is an intellectual meeting of the minds, across party lines, across regions, that makes tough decisions, and tough decisions that are in line with what I proposed as a fundamental shift in our budgeting and our set of priorities,'' the governor said at a news conference announcing the deal shortly before 9 p.m.
 ''I think we have come very far in the context of what is clearly going to be a multiyear effort to turn the ship of state,'' he added. ''We are trying to unwind years of, layers of, sometimes poor decision-making, methods of decision-making that we have to think about and undo. And nobody should expect that this will occur in the course of one budget cycle.'' 
 Neither Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican Senate majority leader, nor the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, appeared at the news conference with the governor. But all three released a joint statement that outlined the terms of the deal. 
 ''It's the stuff we've argued for,'' said John McArdle, a spokesman for Senate Republicans, referring to the agreements outlined in the statement. ''I would say we are cautiously optimistic that we can achieve an on-time budget that meets the framework that was announced.'' 
 The agreements came five days before the state budget is due. For the past two years, lawmakers have passed budgets by the deadline, after two decades of failing to meet it. Different sides were claiming victory Tuesday night, though many key numbers were not revealed and the details of the budget still needed to be negotiated. For instance, it was not clear precisely which of the governor's health care cuts were being undone, though hospitals and nursing homes appeared to be getting most, if not all, of the $350 million added back into the budget. 
 The deal would restore most of an inflation adjustment to Medicaid payments that the governor had proposed to freeze, people with knowledge of its terms said. It would also allow a tax on hospitals to expire that the governor had proposed to keep in place. 
 ''We are hopeful this tentative agreement will lead to the culmination of an intense budget negotiation,'' said Daniel Sisto, president of the Healthcare Association of New York State, which played a major role in the negotiations. ''The challenge was to balance the need for reform with the need to ensure health care providers have the funding they need.''
 Other key health care groups, which have been locked in a bitter media and advertising battle with the governor over his proposed Medicaid cuts, said their understanding of the deal was that the governor had agreed to restore roughly 70 percent of his cuts to hospitals and nursing homes. ''We think it's a tremendous victory for New Yorkers, health care workers and the patients we serve to have 70 percent of the cuts restored,'' said Jennifer Cunningham, a senior adviser to 1199. United Healthcare Workers East, the health care workers' union. 
 But asked about the 70 percent figure, the governor said, ''I think it's lower.''
 His budget director, Paul Francis, said, ''I'd like to wait to disclose specific numbers until the conference committees meet and numbers are distributed to all the members.'' There has been growing concern in the Capitol that the budget negotiations this year have been especially secretive, even by Albany standards. Democrats closed ranks around the governor, with Mr. Silver and the Senate minority leader, Malcolm Smith, refusing to participate in the high-level public budget negotiations -- known as general conference committees -- that have taken place in recent years. 
 ''New York has yet to see the fresh face of Albany described by then-candidate Spitzer,'' the League of Women Voters said in a statement Tuesday. ''In fact, this budget process takes us backward in the journey to a more transparent, open state government.''
 But lawmakers said Tuesday that the conference committees would begin meeting Wednesday as they work out the details of their framework agreement. 
 ''We have had what I think is an open process in terms of listening to all who have had a range of concerns,'' the governor said, adding that he was optimistic about the chances for an on-time budget. 
 ''We will work as vigorously as we can to do that,'' he added. ''Coffee consumption will go up; tempers might get frayed occasionally.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MEDICAID (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); SALES REBATES (54%) Taxation; Education and Schools; Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Property Taxes; Rebates

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%) Danny Hakim; Nicholas Confessore; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



599 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Disarm the Dangerous World That Students Live In

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
Samuel G. Freedman is a professor of journalism at Columbia University. His e-mail address is sgfreedman@nytimes.com.

DATELINE: MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. 

 BODY:
During the spring of his sophomore year in high school here, Jeffrey Johnson took the standardized tests that Florida requires for promotion and graduation. He scored in the 93rd percentile in reading and the 95th in math. That same semester, he earned straight A's. 
 Two years later, in May 2006, Jeffrey was about to graduate summa cum laude, having received a full college scholarship. Days before commencement, at the age of 17, he was shot to death at a party during an argument about his car. His graduation mortarboard was found near his body. 
For Paul Moore, who had taught Jeffrey in an advanced social studies class at Miami Carol City Senior High School, a terrible question began to emerge. It all turned on the concept on accountability. Jeffrey had proved accountable to the state by passing the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test. But what about the accountability the state had to keep Jeffrey alive?
 Jeffrey was the third Carol City student shot to death during the 2005-6 academic year. By the first semester of this year, two more had been killed in gun violence. It was then that Mr. Moore decided to do something more than deliver eulogies, visit weeping parents and initiate class discussions about all the senseless death.
 He drafted a petition, expressing his righteous anger. (''Anger'' indeed was the word, for it derives from the Norse ''angr,'' which means grief at the wrongness in the world.) The petition appealed to the newly elected governor, Charlie Crist, to ''make Florida's schools and the communities around them 'measurably' safer'' and it concluded, ''You are accountable to us for it!''
 In the past month, several thousand people have signed the petition. It is not being forwarded, in the modern way, on the Internet. Instead, volunteers take paper versions into classes, churches, offices; a copy even turned up among some teachers in Chicago. Mr. Moore's words have reached to the heart of something.
 ''I see these kids as the canary in the coal mine,'' said Mr. Moore, 53. ''They're the first to go. But ultimately all our lives are in danger. I know there are personal failures here, but you have to give children a chance to live long enough to make moral choices. The Preamble of the Constitution says the government must guarantee the general welfare. They've failed. They've failed. These children shouldn't be dying.''
 Standing a bony 6-foot-5, craggy face creased and lined, Mr. Moore cuts the figure of an Old Testament prophet improbably dropped amid the pastel bungalows and strip malls. The easy temptation is to conceive of his petition as merely a symbolic admonition.
 Yet his life has been filled with concrete works -- union organizing, lobbying in the State Legislature, coaching sports -- and his criticism of the state government involves specific matters of public policy. He wants Florida to toughen its gun laws.
 Jeffrey Johnson was shot with a Tec-9 semiautomatic, a weapon that it had been illegal to manufacture for a decade under the federal assault-weapons ban. Congress let the ban expire in September 2004. For its part, Florida has no state restriction on the sale or possession of such arms and is unlikely to pass one.
 It was one of the first states in the nation to adopt a law allowing individuals to carry concealed handguns, and two years ago it enacted what is known as the ''Stand Your Ground'' law, permitting a person to preemptively ''use deadly force'' against any perceived threat of attack.
 Governor Crist's press secretary, Erin Isaac, who was asked for comment last week, did not respond. The governor was endorsed in both the primary and the general election by the National Rifle Association. 
 As a result of its current policies, Florida has received a rating of F-plus from the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, an advocacy group. That grade puts Florida in the bottom 10 of the 50 states.
 Grades, of course, can cut other ways. Carol City High School has a D from Florida's education department, based partly on its test scores. Only 9 percent of its sophomores scored at grade level or better on reading last year and a third did so in math.
 What a test cannot quantify is the experience of an educator like Mr. Moore, who teaches most of his courses in the auditorium, where as many as four separate classes meet in simultaneous cacophony. Nor can a statistic grasp the pervasive fatalism, even nihilism, of his students, who have seen so many of their peers killed. 
 AS if to underscore a lesson in the irrelevance of achievement, Jeffrey Johnson and several other victims have been among the most visible academic stars. He was a member of the National Honor Society, a participant in a prelaw program, a volunteer in a congressman's office. He quit the basketball team, despite being captain, to have more time to study.
 Now he is remembered on memorial T-shirts, a grim fashion statement. Mr. Moore recently learned from his students of another popular trend -- young partygoers posing for snapshots while brandishing their favorite firearms. And when Mr. Moore recently asked his economics class the seemingly innocuous question of why CD sales for rap music have been falling, a boy named Charles answered, ''All the young people that would buy it are getting killed.''
 Mr. Moore pursued the point, asking Charles if the death toll bothered him. ''You just have to move on,'' the teenager replied. ''Can't bring them back. You can't take them with you. Nothing you can do about it.''
 The words echoed in Mr. Moore's head as he made several visits with his petition. He sat during a free period with Deirdre Anderson, the high school's library specialist; her son James, a student at a different high school, was shot dead with an AK-47 last spring. After school two days later, Mr. Moore drove to visit with Jeffrey Johnson's father, who is also named Jeffrey.
 ''If you go to school for 12 years and can't pass that test,'' Mr. Johnson said, ''then all you were doing is attending. So if the state can put all this pressure on the students and the parents, then why can't the parents put the pressure back on the state? I don't want nothing to happen to nobody else's kid.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Johnson with his son's car, which he helped customize as a reward for good grades. His son was killed with an assault pistol just before graduating from a Florida high school. The son's portrait is on the hood and his father's T-shirt. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PETITIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); RELIGION (62%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); RETAILERS (50%) Education and Schools; Murders and Attempted Murders; Crime and Criminals

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (78%) Samuel G Freedman; Charlie (Gov) Crist; Jeffrey Johnson; Paul (Florida Teacher) Moore

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Miami Gardens (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007



600 of 652 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Earth's Climate Needs the Help Of Incentives

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The politicians who deny that global warming is a problem used to be the biggest obstacle to a solution. They're not anymore. They have lost the argument. 
 When former Vice President Al Gore came back to Capitol Hill to testify last week, a few of the global-warming holdouts in Congress confronted him with their usual tactics. They took the actual uncertainties over climate change -- how fast seas and temperatures will rise, how serious the effects will be -- and tried to make them sound like uncertainty over whether human beings were making the planet hotter. But the skeptics didn't get very far. In the last few months, this debate has shifted incredibly quickly.
As Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican (lifetime rating from the American Conservative Union: 90 out of 100 ), told Mr. Gore, ''I think everyone recognizes -- as you have said and the scientific community agrees -- that there is global warming caused by human activity.'' On Monday, Gallup released a new poll conducted before the hearings. In it, 86 percent of respondents said they favored new action to deal with environmental problems. 
 No wonder, then, that the political debate now revolves around what that action should be. In the current Congress, there are six bills to deal with climate change, and more are on the way. Senator John McCain, a Republican presidential candidate, helped write one bill, and Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, the leading Democratic hopefuls, are co-sponsors of it.
 This attention certainly qualifies as progress. But it is also creating the newest big obstacle to a climate solution, an obstacle that's far less obvious than the efforts to deny scientific reality. The would-be reformers may be saying all the right things; every last one of them may even be pursuing the solution she or he honestly believes to be the best one. 
 But the truth is that some of the ideas now on the table would do very little to change the situation. And a feckless new law would be worse than nothing at all right now.
 The discussion about climate change can be mind-numbingly complex, filled as it often is with economic and scientific jargon. But I think there are three broad principles that help sort out the substantive attempts at change from the others. 
 The place to start -- the first thing that distinguishes the most serious reformers -- is an acknowledgment that a cooler planet will cost money. It's extremely tempting to focus instead on the dazzling economic opportunities that come with alternative energies. President Bush did so during this year's State of the Union address when he said, ''The way forward is through technology.'' 
 Likewise, Mrs. Clinton, when laying out her solution to climate and energy problems last year, asked: ''How will we get there? Two words: innovation and efficiency.'' She then recited a list of nifty technologies -- wind power, solar cells, cellulosic ethanol, hybrid plug-ins, clean coal, clean diesel -- that Mr. Bush also likes. 
 Some of these probably will become major energy sources in the decades ahead. But in most places they're not yet nearly as cheap as oil, coal or the other fossil fuels that make the planet hotter by emitting carbon. Government subsidies cannot make up the gap, and, more to the point, nobody can accurately predict which alternative energies are the most promising and most deserving of subsidy. So a hodgepodge of new research-and-development tax credits just isn't the answer. 
 The only reliable way to reduce carbon emissions is to make them more expensive. When you hear somebody talk first about doing this and only then about the wonderful innovations that will follow -- and they will follow -- you know that person is serious. 
 This is essence of the second principle: the market created this problem, and the market is going to have to solve it. The issue, says David H. Festa, director for the oceans program at the advocacy group Environmental Defense is 'how do we make sure people are given the right economic signals to do what we need them to do.' ''
 Later today, Mr. Festa is going to release a fascinating study about the fishing business that on its face has nothing to do with global warming, and yet has everything to do with a solution. At dozens of the nation's fisheries, the fish population is in danger because fishermen have no incentive not to take everything out of the water that they can. But 10 fisheries, stretching from the halibut fishery off Alaska to the surf clam industry in New England, have tried a different route. 
 They have capped their annual catch and then granted fishermen the right to a certain share of that catch. The fishermen can buy and sell these rights among themselves, creating a market that rewards the most efficient companies. The fishermen also have a stake in the long-term health of the fishery, as it will dictate the value of their fishing rights when they retire. 
 The new study is important because it shows that the benefits aren't just hypothetical. At the 10 fisheries, there are fewer fatal accidents than elsewhere and the fish populations are healthier. The fact that halibut has returned to restaurant menus in the last decade is a direct result of these cap-and-trade programs.
 All of the climate bills in Congress revolve around a similar idea. The government would cap greenhouse-gas emissions and issue tradable permits, each giving power plants the right to pump out a set amount. The plants that did the best job of reducing their emissions could then profit by selling unused permits to inefficient plants. A similar system put in place during George H. W. Bush's presidency reduced acid rain much more quickly than economists had predicted.
 The successes of the acid rain and fishing programs point to the third principle: the solution should be clear and straightforward. It should cover the entire economy, and it shouldn't have escape hatches that undermine the market mechanisms. Mrs. Clinton, whatever her rhetorical weaknesses, has signed onto a bill that passes this test.
 But at least two of the current Senate bills fail it. The one proposed by Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, covers only the electricity business, among other problems. The one being prepared by Jeff Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat, sets a maximum price on the carbon permits, which undermines their whole point. It's like asking people to invest in the stock market and then forbidding them from making more than a 5 percent return. 
 These three principles -- acknowledge the costs; let the market work; and keep the solution simple -- won't cover everything. But they will go a long way toward reducing carbon emissions here, in the country that produces more of them than any other, and then letting us turn to another big problem: persuading China and India to follow suit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION (56%)

PERSON: AL GORE (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ED WHITFIELD (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007

 
