

801 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT;
Interior Choice Sends a Signal On Land Policy

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
As a young lawyer in President Ronald Reagan's Interior Department, Gale Norton was part of an unsuccessful effort to persuade Congressional Democrats to open Alaska's National Wildlife Refuge to oil exploration.
Now Ms. Norton is poised to plunge back into that bitter fight, this time as interior secretary under another Republican president who has accused Democrats of doing too much to lock up natural resources in the name of conservation. 
 With President-elect George W. Bush vowing to allow oil companies access to the wildlife refuge, and most Democrats aligned strongly against the plan, the battle over new oil drilling in Alaska is shaping up as a defining controversy for the early months of the Bush administration. And in naming Ms. Norton, 46, as his steward of the nation's public lands, Mr. Bush has sent a strong signal that what he has in mind -- and not only in Alaska -- would indeed mark a sharp shift in course.
Except for the choice of John Ashcroft as attorney general, no Bush cabinet selection so far may create more opposition than this one. It was unclear how actively environmental groups might fight to block Ms. Norton's nomination, but the Sierra Club, in particular, commands a broad membership and has shown a willingness to spend large amounts of money in such political battles.
A former protege of James Watt, Mr. Reagan's first interior secretary, Ms. Norton has long been an outspoken advocate of granting states, localities and even private corporations a greater voice in environmental decisions that under Democratic leadership have been mostly the preserve of the federal government.
"She believes very much that less regulation is better, and that the best control is at the lowest level of government possible," said Matti Allbright, who served as Colorado's deputy attorney general under Ms. Norton. "I don't think she's going to push around those who are trying to come up with their own solutions."
In a hint of the turnabout that seems to be under way, those who were celebrating Ms. Norton's appointment most loudly today included groups like the oil industry and off-road enthusiasts, who have complained that their views about federal lands were being ignored under the Clinton administration.
At the Cato Institute, a research organization in Washington that is a vigorous opponent of federal regulation, Jerry Taylor, director of natural resource policy, said he and other fellows were "popping Champagne" in celebration of Mr. Bush's choice.
"The appointment of Gale Norton is a throwing down of the gauntlet against the constituency who believes that the federal government needs to lock up more land or wall off existing land from further economic exploitation," Mr. Taylor said.
By contrast, the loudest complaints came from the environmental groups that most often came out as winners in Mr. Clinton's big decisions, and who warned that the choice of Ms. Norton would presage a return to darker times.
"Our view is that this is James Watt in a skirt," said Allen Mattison, the national spokesman for the Sierra Club, suggesting that Ms. Norton might prove as unsympathetic to conservationists as Mr. Watt, who hired her at the Mountain States Legal Foundation after she left the University of Denver.
As interior secretary, Mr. Watt outraged environmentalists on many fronts, in particular by trying to bypass Congressional restrictions in order to allow oil and gas exploration in protected areas of the West. Mr. Watt was seen as sympathetic to the ranchers and miners who in the late 1970's had waged what they called a Sagebrush Rebellion against federal authority, and he could be personally provocative, at one point ordering, for reasons of political symbolism, that the buffalo on the Interior Department seal, which had always faced to the left, face to the right instead.
As attorney general, Ms. Norton was a strong advocate of Colorado's "self-audit" law, which lets companies conduct voluntary audits to determine whether they are complying with environmental requirements. The law gives businesses immunity from litigation and fines if they report and correct the violations, and it and others like it have faced strong opposition from the Environmental Protection Agency.
Ms. Norton later moved on to serve in the Agriculture Department and then in the Interior Department, where she oversaw legal issues involving endangered species and public lands.
In 1990, she was elected attorney general in Colorado, where she defeated a three-term incumbent, and where she won re-election four years later. Ms. Norton lost a 1996 bid for the United States Senate when she was defeated in the Republican primary, and left office in 1998 under Colorado's term-limits laws. She has since been employed as senior counsel at Brownstein, Hyatt & Farber, a leading Colorado law firm.
Ms. Norton and her husband, John G. Hughes, a commercial real estate broker, live in Highlands Ranch, Colo., a suburb south of Denver.
Ms. Norton has been a firm champion of the view that federal power should be passed down to the states and other interests.
She is a member of the board of the Independence Institute, a Colorado-based organization that describes itself as a champion of the free market and which introduced her in 1996 as a "hero of devolution." As attorney general, Ms. Norton succeeded in persuading the Bush and Clinton administrations to modify rigid environmental cleanup regulations to accelerate the cleanup of hazardous wastes at Rocky Flats, a nuclear weapons site, and at the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, a manufacturing point for chemical weapons.
But Ms. Norton's opposition to top-down solutions also made for considerable frustration, her associates said, when her espousal of Colorado-born solutions ran headlong into federal opposition. In a 1996 speech, Ms. Norton criticized what she said had been the Clinton administration's challenges to Colorado's self-audit approach, including what she said had been a threat to cut off millions of dollars in federal assistance "because we had the audacity to adopt something in environmental area."
"We'll have the opportunity to do battle once again on the issue of the state being able to make its own decisions," she said, and then continued: "Just as free markets triumphed over communism, we are in a time when the intellectual debate is shifting; when we are part of the framework that will make these things happen; when we can be part of the intellectual battle that shift power from Washington back to states and local communities."
In interviews today, several former associates described Ms. Norton as a person who was willing to compromise to seek consensus. David Kopel, a Democrat who said that Ms. Norton's conservative background prompted some trepidation within the Colorado attorney general's office, said she had instead proven herself to be "conservative with a small 'c,' in that she is cautious and not inclined to push radical solutions."
"She's able to work very well across partisan barriers, and I think that's precisely what that agency needs," said Christine Gregoire, a Democrat who is the attorney general in Washington State, and who chose Ms. Norton to represent Colorado and other states in what became the $206 billion national tobacco settlement, the largest legal settlement in history.
Phil Carlton, a tobacco industry attorney in those negotiations, said Ms. Norton had distinguished herself among his adversaries in that she was willing to listen to both sides of the issue.
Among the most enthusiastic responses to Ms. Norton's selection was from the Independent Petroleum Producers Association, whose 5,000 members represent 85 percent of the oil wells drilled in the United States. It said that Ms. Norton "understands the issues in the West where federal land so dominates access to the natural resource base," and that it was "looking forward to working with her to address the energy supply problems that are so significant in our nation today."
 
PROFILE
Gale Ann Norton
 
BORN: March 11, 1954, in Wichita, Kan.
HOMETOWN: Highlands Ranch, Colo.
EDUCATION: Thornton High School, Thornton, Colo.; B.A., University of Denver; J.D. University of Denver
CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: Clerk, Colorado Court of Appeals, 1978-79; lawyer, Mountain States Legal Foundation, 1979-83; assistant to deputy secretary, United States Department of Agriculture, 1984-85; associate solicitor, United States Department of Interior, 1985-87; private law practice, 1987-90; attorney general of Colorado, 1991-99; private law practice 1999-present.
FAMILY: Married to John G. Hughes
HOBBIES: Golf and skiing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gale Norton is poised to rejoin the Interior Department as its leader. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SIERRA CLUB (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ALASKA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); LAWYERS (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2000



802 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: THE 43RD PRESIDENT: THE TRANSITION;
NEW PICKS FIRM UP CONSERVATIVE CAST OF BUSH'S CABINET

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush filled four of the remaining posts in his cabinet today, choosing Wisconsin's governor, Tommy G. Thompson, a conservative who overhauled his state's welfare system, to lead the department of health and human services, and Gale A. Norton, the former attorney general of Colorado and a strong advocate of limiting federal regulation of land use, to become the secretary of the interior.
Mr. Bush also selected Rod Paige, who revamped the Houston school system as superintendent there during Mr. Bush's term as Texas governor, to run the department of education. And he reached again for a veteran of his father's administration, naming Anthony Principi, as secretary of veterans' affairs. Mr. Principi was the deputy secretary from 1989 until 1992, and acting secretary in the last months of President Bush's administration. 
 Mr. Bush now has only three cabinet posts left to fill: labor, energy and transportation. He has yet to appoint a Democrat, though after his narrow election victory he said he would seek one or more in an effort to assure some measure of bipartisanship within his own cabinet.
"We're still working on it," a top aide to Mr. Bush said today. But it was clear, given the remaining slots, that no Democrat would hold a very senior post or control issues critical to the agenda Mr. Bush described during his campaign. Page A11.
With today's selections, Mr. Bush has given his cabinet a more conservative cast, and some choices are likely to meet opposition during the confirmation process. But Congress was out of session, and it was too early to tell if the challenges would amount to anything.
Mr. Bush's first appointments, including retired Gen. Colin Powell as secretary of state and Paul O'Neill, the retiring chairman of Alcoa, as treasury secretary, were seen as moderates. But he has now nominated prominent conservatives in several key posts, including Senator John Ashcroft of Missouri as attorney general, Governor Thompson and Ms. Norton.
Abortion opponents praised the Thompson selection, saying that an anti-abortion view was important for the head of the health and human services agency to hold. Abortion-rights groups, which have said they would oppose Senator Ashcroft, also vowed to oppose Mr. Thompson.
This afternoon the Sierra Club compared Ms. Norton, an advocate of expanding landholders' rights, to James Watt, the interior secretary who became a target of environmentalists in the Reagan administration.
Taking a page from President Clinton's 1992 transition, Mr. Bush is also planning an "economic summit" next week in Austin, where he will gather business leaders and members of his economic team to discuss the economy, free trade, tax policy and other issues.
Along with the three cabinet posts, several other top posts still must be filled: director of central intelligence, trade representative, and ambassador to the United Nations.
Paul D. Wolfowitz, now the dean of the school of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins Universities, who was considered and rejected for secretary of defense, is believed still in the running for the C.I.A. job -- a position which he has said he does not want -- or the U.N. post. George Tenet, the current C.I.A. director, might be left in place. And John Bolton, an assistant secretary of state in President Bush's administration, is also discussed as a possibility at the U.N.
It was unclear whether more appointments would be made next week, when Mr. Bush plans to be back in Austin after taking several days off for the New Year's holiday.
Two of his selections today were immediately embraced by conservative groups: Governor Thompson and Ms. Norton.
Mr. Thompson is known for the innovative "Wisconsin Works" program that moved the poor off welfare rolls and into jobs -- it later became one of the templates for President Clinton's "welfare to work" program -- but he is also a strong opponent of abortion.
Mr. Bush heaped praise on Mr. Thompson, a close political ally -- and made no mention of the governor's failure to deliver Wisconsin's electoral votes to the Bush column.
"I know this man very well," Mr. Bush said. "I know his record. I know his ability to lead. Tommy has been a creative, conservative, compassionate governor of Wisconsin. Real -- real -- welfare reform began in Wisconsin."
Mr. Thompson's selection also puts another close political adviser within easy reach for Mr. Bush. He has already nominated his campaign chairman and friend, Donald L. Evans, for the Commerce Department.
Within hours of today's announcement, groups like Planned Parenthood said they would oppose Mr. Thompson's nomination.
"I definitely think there should be great concern about whether he would use his post to eliminate or restrict women's access to abortion services," said Gloria Feldt, the president of Planned Parenthood.
She said she is particularly concerned that Mr. Thompson might try to reverse a recent decision by the Food and Drug Administration to make RU-486, a drug that terminates pregnancies, available in the United States. Mr. Thompson sidestepped questions on the issue at a news conference with Mr. Bush today.
But the National Right to Life Committee, the nation's largest anti-abortion group, said in a statement: "It is very important for a pro-life president to have a pro-life secretary of health and human services, and Thompson has been a pro-life governor over a period of 14 years. He has signed numerous pro-life bills into law, including a ban on partial-birth abortions."
Ms. Norton comes from the long-brewing conservative land movement in the West, which has protested federal regulations that restrict the use of land without compensating owners for the loss of revenue those restrictions impose. Her appointment underscores a key difference between the Bush administration now taking shape and the kind of cabinet that Vice President Al Gore would have assembled.
Ms. Norton was asked today about Clinton administration decisions that have severely restricted the commercial use of federal lands.
"The West was concerned about those decisions, in large part because there was no consultation with the people whose lives were most affected by land withdrawals by the Clinton administration," she said.
She stopped short of declaring she would reverse those actions, saying: "I will be discussing those issues with the Senate as part of my confirmation hearings, and at this time I have no position on what the incoming administration will be doing as to those designations."
Similarly, she declined to say whether she would push for oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Area, though she noted that Mr. Bush took a position during the campaign that "we should explore opening" the area because "there are huge amounts of oil available."
She said she supported Mr. Bush's position, but made no predictions about her own actions, should she be confirmed by the Senate.
The selection of Mr. Paige, who is Mr. Bush's second black appointee to his cabinet, after General Powell, was intriguing. Mr. Bush was clearly seeking someone in tune with his own philosophy for overhauling schools, so he chose a superintendent whose district he knows well: Houston.
Mr. Paige served for several years on the Houston school board, which selected him as superintendent in 1994 over the objections of the city's Hispanic community, which sought a Hispanic head for a district with a large percentage of students who live in Spanish-speaking homes.
But by most accounts, Mr. Paige quickly won the trust of the Hispanic community. "He raised test scores significantly, while strengthening the tests and improving their validity by including special education kids in the numbers," said Bob Lanier, a Democrat who was mayor of Houston from 1992 to 1998.
"He's given more authority to the school principals and then held them acountable," Mr. Lanier said. "He worked with several successful charter schools. He's been willing to experiment with limited voucher programs," which Democrats have opposed for fear they could undercut public schools by diverting taxpayer dollars to private schools.
A very small number of children in a handful of the worst-performing schools in Houston were permitted to receive state aid that could be used for private school tuition.
"I think his educational philosophies and the governor's are identical," Mr. Lanier said.
Mr. Lanier was somewhat surprised to hear Mr. Paige describe himself as a Republican. "I knew he was conservative, but we have a nonpartisan system here, and I've never known him to express an opinion on partisan politics."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Four more choices for a Bush cabinet were named yesterday in Washington: from left, Rod Paige, secretary of education; Gale A. Norton, secretary of the interior; Anthony Principi, secretary of veterans affairs; Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, secretary of health and human services. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); President-elect George W. Bush introduced the four newest candidates for his cabinet yesterday at his transition headquarters in Washington. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (70%); VETERANS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); ABORTION (66%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (62%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TOMMY THOMPSON (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2000



803 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 5;National Desk

LENGTH: 2197 words

HEADLINE: As Abortion Rate Decreases, Clinics Compete for Patients

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
Renee Chelian was worried about her business. With competitors charging lower prices, she needed something special to draw customers. So she created an almost a spa-like atmosphere at her offices, with low light in the rooms, aromatherapy, candles and relaxing music.
Ms. Chelian runs three abortion clinics in the Detroit suburbs, where competition is so fierce that each clinic owner is looking for an edge. 
 In Detroit, and in other large metropolitan areas around the country, there are not too few abortion providers, as abortion proponents have lamented for years. There are too many. It is still true that fewer hospitals are providing abortions, fewer doctors outside abortion clinics are offering the procedure and 86 percent of counties in the country have no abortion provider.
But, over the past few years, as the number of abortions has declined, abortions increasingly have been concentrated in specialty clinics in cities and pockets of competition have developed.
So while women in rural areas must sometimes drive hundreds of miles to the nearest clinic, in cities and suburbs there are price wars and competition over amenities. Doctors have refused to train colleagues, fearing they will only help a potential competitor in a lucrative, often cash-only, business.
National statistics compiled by the Alan Guttmacher Institute illustrate the clinics' problem. The number of abortions declined by 17.4 percent in just seven years, to a low of 1.328 million in 1997 from a peak of 1.608 million abortions in 1990, the most recent year for which statistics are available.
Different groups give different explanations for the drop. The National Right to Life Committee credits the persuasive power of abortion opponents as well as laws requiring informed consent and parental notification. But Dr. Stanley Henshaw, a senior fellow at the Guttmacher Institute who analyzed abortion data, said the reason is mostly better birth control. While it is true, he said, that more teenagers are keeping their babies, most of those having abortions are in their early 20's and fewer of them are becoming pregnant.
Whatever the reason, the falling number of abortions has come at a time when the number of clinics in major cities has not changed. Since 1992, the number of clinics doing 400 or more abortions a year has remained steady at 690. It is in these clinics -- 99 percent of which are in metropolitan areas -- that 89 percent of abortions take place.
 
The Cost of Competition
Clinic owners say they have little choice but to cluster in cities -- that is the only way they can find enough patients. Ruth Arick, the owner of Choice Pursuits in DeLand, Fla., which does management consulting for abortion clinics, said that a population of about 200,000 is needed to support a full-fledged clinic.
Abortion clinics are not so different from other specialty services, said Dr. William Ramos, who runs an abortion clinic in Las Vegas.
"In the entire state of Nevada, there is only one Lexus dealer and only one Acura dealer," he said.
But, abortion providers say, unlike other areas of medicine, where prices have surged over the years, competition among abortion clinics has kept prices so low that an abortion in many cities costs less now than it did 25 years ago, without even adjusting for the nearly 500 percent inflation in medical services. If abortion had kept up with inflation in medical services, a $300 abortion in 1972 would cost $2,251 today.
"The fees are not set by the cost of the services but by the cost of the competition," said Dr. Warren Hern, owner of the Boulder Abortion Clinic in Colorado. And, he said, "the competition for patients is absolutely ruthless."
While abortion providers report that many metropolitan areas -- New York, Northern New Jersey, large cities in California and Florida -- have a surplus of abortion providers, few places have more intense competition than Detroit and its suburbs, home to about 5.4 million people. There, two dozen clinics -- with another nine within a two-hour drive from Detroit -- fight for a dwindling number of patients and owners like Ms. Chelian find themselves struggling to survive.
"As altruistic as women and feminists want to be, the reality is that we can only stay in business if we earn enough to keep our doors open," Ms. Chelian said.
 
Fighting the Price Wars
After working at abortion clinics for 25 years, Kathryn Allen seized an opportunity to own one. The doctor running the Scotsdale Women's Center, a small brick building painted a dusky rose on a bleak treeless street in Detroit, was in his 60's and his practice had dwindled.
So, in 1997, Ms. Allen and her daughter, Shelly Miller, took over, getting a doctor to do abortions and deciding to charge $275 for a first-trimester abortion -- significantly less than the average fee in the United States, which was $316 in 1996.
But then a nearby clinic, which had been charging $250 for students and $285 for others, dropped its fee to $175. Ms. Allen could not compete.
"We were not making it, we were just getting killed," Ms. Allen said. "There was one week when we did just eight patients. We owned the building, we were paying peoples' salaries and we were really scared."
The only way to survive, Ms. Allen decided, was to meet her competitor's fee and forgo her own pay. The competing clinic finally raised its fee to $230 for a first-trimester abortion, and so Ms. Allen and Ms. Miller did the same. Their clinic now does about 1,200 abortions a year.
Ms. Allen and Ms. Miller still have to watch every penny. Like other clinics, the owners save money by training a low-paid staff to do everything but the actual surgery, from drawing blood to doing lab tests. Most of the time, no patients are scheduled and the staff cleans and does paper work. But when the doctor comes, a parade of patients is ready for the procedure, which takes just two or three minutes in the first trimester of pregnancy.
In Detroit, as in many other large cities, abortion protesters have not been a problem. The main problem is competition from other clinics. In New York, two of the largest clinics, Parkmed and Eastern Women's Center, coexisted for more than a decade, about two blocks from each other near Park Avenue South and 30th Street. But last year they had 30 percent fewer abortion patients than they did in peak years in the late 1980's and early 1990's, said Ted Weiselberg, who owned Parkmed.
So the two New York clinics decided that the only way they could survive was to merge, forming Parkmed Eastern Women's Center. The new clinic not only does abortions -- about 15,000 a year, said Mr. Weiselberg, one of its owners -- but it offers gynecological services as well.
"It's like any other service," Mr. Weiselberg said. "You have to lower your fee to attract enough patients to allow the office to pay its rent and you have to diversify to be successful."
 
Abortion Pill Dilemma
Now, clinics are grappling with the mifepristone dilemma. Owners feel they have to offer the recently approved abortion pill, formerly known as RU-486, because women are asking for it and seem to expect it. But its price -- $270 for three pills -- will be a problem. Many owners say that if they charge what it costs to provide the three pills plus the three office visits, the lab work, and the counseling, they will lose customers to competitors who say they will keep the price much lower.
Some have found creative solutions. Ms. Chelian said she is considering offering women just one pill instead of three and to have them sign a form saying they understand that one pill is not the approved dose but that studies have shown that one pill is effective. Then she can charge them just $80 more than for a surgical abortion.
Carmen Franco, who owns six clinics in Detroit, said she expects to charge women $450 for a mifepristone abortion with the full three-pill dose. It is less than her costs. But, she said, by making it available, she expects to draw patients to the clinic where they can see the full range of options she provides. "We probably will use it as a loss leader," she said.
 
A Subsidized Competitor
Dr. Hern used to have plenty of patients for first-trimester abortions at his clinic in Boulder, where he was charging $375. Then, a Planned Parenthood clinic opened in nearby Fort Collins, charging less than $300. Subsidized by the nonprofit Planned Parenthood Foundation, the clinic was able to keep its fees lower than Dr. Hern could even contemplate.
"Within a month after that clinic opened, my patient numbers dropped by 25 percent," Dr. Hern said.
Independent abortion providers say Planned Parenthood clinics can easily undercut them.
"I would sort of compare them to Wal-Mart coming in and taking over from all the mom and pops'," said Dr. William West, who works at an abortion clinic in Dallas.
The Planned Parenthood issue, said Carole Joffee, a sociologist who is a visiting professor at Bryn Mawr College in Pennsylvania, is part of "the identity crisis of abortion. All other forms of health care are part of a market. Is abortion part of the health care industry? Or is it part of a social movement?"
Gloria Feldt, the president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said that her group has a slightly different focus than independent providers.
"As a nonprofit organization our mission is to make sure that every woman has access to reproductive health services -- including abortion -- regardless of their ability to pay," she said.
In keeping with that mission, Planned Parenthood has expanded its abortion services over the past decade, Ms. Feldt said. In 1991, 91 out of 199 Planned Parenthood health centers offered abortions. In 1999, 147 out of 876 offered them. But, Ms. Feldt said, she does not see a conflict between her group and independent clinics since they often coexist peacefully, even sharing doctors. "We each fill an important niche in the community," she said. In addition, Ms. Feldt said, Planned Parenthood advocates and litigates to provide a social climate that enables abortion clinics to exist.
Many independent clinic owners say they survive only by finding a way to distinguish themselves from Planned Parenthood.
Dr. Hern decided that because his Planned Parenthood competitor did only first-trimester abortions, he would compete by focusing on abortions in the second and third trimester. While the vast majority of women who have abortions are in their first trimester, the thought was that those who were later in pregnancy would be drawn to Dr. Hern. But now even that niche is starting to erode, he said. At a recent medical meeting, Dr. Hern said, doctors crowded into a session on late-term abortions. "The startling thing to me was that a very large room was filled -- packed," Dr. Hern said. "Twenty years ago, there were just two or three doctors in the country doing late abortions."
 
A Lucrative Business
Dr. Ramos said the situation at his clinic in Las Vegas is close to ideal. There are no protesters. Business is good -- he does about 3,000 abortions a year, charging $300 for a first-trimester abortion. And with four clinics in the city, everyone is getting by. Dr. Ramos says he made the perfect career choice when he began doing abortions nearly three decades ago. "There is less work and more income," he explained.
While few want to talk about the money that abortion doctors can make, clinic owners and doctors agree that doctors can make several hundred thousand dollars a year working part time, a few hours a day with their fees averaging $60 for a first-trimester abortion. Although they do have hefty fees for malpractice insurance, doctors who travel from clinic to clinic have no overhead and no record keeping.
But it can be hard to enter the profession.
One doctor in Detroit, who spoke on condition he not be identified, saying he feared hostility from his colleagues, said that when he finished medical school, trained in obstetrics and gynecology, he asked abortion doctors in the area to train him. He was turned away.
Eventually, he found a clinic whose doctor was retiring and the owner let him do abortions. Now, he travels from clinic to clinic terminating pregnancies.
Ronald Fitzsimmons, executive director of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers, said he gets calls from doctors looking for work but often he cannot help them.
"There are places in this country where there are more doctors who perform abortions looking for work than we can handle," Mr. Fitzsimmons said.
Dr. Ramos said that he understands why. "Anything that's not managed care is exquisitely popular."
In fact, he said, the only thing that is keeping more doctors from entering the abortion arena is the social stigma.
"My patients say, 'How do you feel doing abortions all day?' " Dr. Ramos said.
He tells them that he feels fine -- that he is helping women at a difficult time of their lives and that, he said, is very gratifying.
"I find this to be a very rewarding practice," Dr. Ramos said. "Emotionally rewarding and financially rewarding."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2001, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Saturday about competition among abortion providers referred incorrectly to the number of Planned Parenthood clinics that offered abortions in 1991. It was 99 clinics out of 911, not 91 out of 199. The article also included a physician's erroneous reference to a comparably sparse service -- Lexus dealers in Nevada. There are two, not one.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Abortion in Decline "
Most abortions are performed in clinics. As abortion rates decline, the clinics struggle to compete with one another.
 
Graph tracks total number of legal abortions since 1973*
 
Distribution of abortion providers . . .
Clinic+ -- 34%
Hospital -- 34
Physician and other -- 32
 
. . . and of abortions performed (1996)
Clinic+ -- 89%
Hospital -- 7
Physician and other -- 4
 
Average cost of an abortion§
In 1997 dollars
 
1983: $322
1986: $312
1989: $325
1993: $329
1997: $316
 
*In 1973, the Supreme Court recognized the constitutional right to abortion.
+Performed 400 or more abortions. §Cost at 10 weeks with local anesthesia.
(Source: Alan Guttmacher Institute)(pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (91%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (82%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (82%); GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. ABORTION (95%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (91%); CITIES (89%); STATISTICS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); PATIENT CONSENT (77%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); STATISTICAL METHOD (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: RENEE CHELIAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2000



804 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Back to the Stone Age

BYLINE: By Erica Goode; Erica Goode writes about human behavior for The New York Times.

 BODY:

 Mean Genes
 From Sex to Money to Food:
 Taming Our Primal Instincts.
 By Terry Burnham and Jay Phelan.
 263 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Perseus Publishing. $24. 
 Evolutionary psychologists have been beating the Darwinian drum for some years now, invoking the Victorian scientist's name to explain everything from sexual attraction and infanticide to selfishness and infidelity. But until now, they have been mostly content to put forward their ideas in scholarly books, their bolder assertions -- that a proclivity for rape is written in men's genes, for example -- stirring debate on the cocktail circuit and in the halls of academe.
Now, however, two true believers in the power of evolutionary theory to explain human behavior have taken the next step: they have written a self-help book. "Mean Genes," by Terry Burnham, a visiting scholar at the Harvard Business School, and Jay Phelan, a biology professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, proclaims itself "the first book that converts the modern Darwinian revolution into practical steps for better living."
True to the self-improvement genre, the book makes use of personal anecdotes, newspaper headlines, a smattering of research from anthropology, psychology and other fields, and a ubiquitous first-person plural to offer tips on how to lose weight, stop smoking, get out of debt, find a husband and avoid the temptation to cheat on a spouse. The reasons people find these challenges so daunting, the authors explain -- in a reprise of the evolutionary psychology anthem made popular through books like Robert Wright's "Moral Animal" -- can be traced to the years human ancestors spent trying to survive and reproduce in a Paleolithic environment.
People eat too much because, in that long-ago time, they never knew when the next meal might come along. Husbands are unfaithful because spreading their seed helped men reproduce their genes. Men lust after Playboy bunnies and supermodels because they learned that an hourglass figure was a sign of high fertility. "Ancient and selfish, our mean genes influence us every day in almost every way," Burnham and Phelan write.
Yet there is hope! Modern humans can overcome the sloth, greed, lust and covetousness dictated by their genes if they know what they are fighting, the authors inform us.
The only problem is that when it comes to besting those tough old human weaknesses, Darwinian advice appears to be much the same as, well, the guidance offered by Dear Abby, for example. Want to lose weight? Try not keeping sweets around the house and avoid shopping when you are hungry. Spending too much money? Remember that "regardless of whether something is called a loan application fee, an interest charge or a balloon payment, all that matters is the interest rate." Want the boys to ask you out, even though you are less than beautiful? "Anyone can become significantly more desirable by being considerate, staying physically fit and being fiscally responsible."
Many critics of evolutionary psychology (and, most likely, some evolutionary psychologists themselves) will wince at the glibness of the book's tone, the banality of its solutions, the sophomoric quality of its jokes and the unblushing (some might say reckless) alchemy with which it transforms hotly contested theory into unquestioned fact. And some scientists will wonder whether the printing budget made it impossible for Burnham and Phelan to credit them by name for their work (in the acknowledgments, readers interested in such pesky details are steered to the book's Web site, www.meangenes.org).
Still, while "Mean Genes" may be annoying, it offers a relatively harmless introduction to the basics of evolutionary psychology and tries hard to avoid topics, like rape, that have drawn the ire of feminists in the past. As a result, the book is unlikely to raise many hackles. But neither is it apt to help anyone lose weight. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MEAN GENES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PERSEUS PUBLISHING (72%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); EVOLUTION THEORY (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); MAMMALS (77%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (77%); ANIMALS (73%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); ADVICE COLUMNS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); 

PERSON: GOODE, ERICA; BURNHAM, TERRY; PHELAN, JAY JAY PHELAN (88%); TERRY BURNHAM (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



805 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Hanging Up the Past

BYLINE: By Paul Mattick; Paul Mattick, who teaches philosophy at Adelphi University, is completing a book of essays on modern art.

 BODY:

 THE EPHEMERAL MUSEUM
 Old Master Paintings and
 the Rise of the Art Exhibition.
 By Francis Haskell.
 Illustrated. 200 pp. New Haven:
 Yale University Press. $25. 
 The social history of art is one orientation among others in the academic world, but it's actually hard to see what other kind of history art could have -- it doesn't grow on trees, after all. Yet the idea that studying the contexts within which artworks are created and appreciated (or not) detracts from aesthetic engagement with the works themselves is still alive and well, and nowhere in better health than at museums -- the central institution bringing history to art lovers today.
One of the many virtues Francis Haskell practiced in his writing, in addition to elegance and wit, was his sublime disregard of this prejudice. His first book, "Patrons and Painters" (1963), looked at the influence on Italian Baroque art of the relations between artists and patrons, from commissioning popes and aristocrats to wealthy collectors buying from dealers in something like the modern way. Immediately recognized as a classic, it illustrated with enormous erudition Haskell's later insight: every aesthetic system "is inextricably bound up with a whole series of forces, religious, political, nationalist, economic, intellectual, which may appear to have only the remotest relation to art, but which may have to be violently disrupted before any change in perception becomes possible."
His last book, "The Ephemeral Museum," which he was preparing for publication when he died earlier this year, develops that thought in a short but delightful study of "the many changes introduced . . . to the ways that we now look at art" by exhibitions of Old Master paintings. We take as a staple of museumgoing the blockbuster presentations of masses of paintings and drawings by great artists of the past. Museums have come to rely on these exhibitions as crucial attractors of the hordes of art lovers whose entrance payments and purchases of catalogs, mugs, posters and refrigerator magnets are now required to hold budget deficits to tolerable levels. But like museums themselves, Old Master exhibitions have not always existed.
The concept of the Old Master is traceable to late-16th-century Italy, when the art of what was then seen as an earlier golden age -- the work of Raphael, Leonardo and Michelangelo, among others -- was assessed as having a permanent high value. But the term itself only appeared in the late 18th century, and "gradually came to embrace all those artists who had lived before the French Revolution." The Old Master exhibition emerged along with another 18th-century invention, the museum. They share the feature of bringing together "in a clearly defined space works of art (often of the most varied kinds) that had originally been designed to be seen in wholly different locations," and both helped give flesh to the idea that such varied works are all examples of a thing called art, with its own history and its own field of expert study. The modesty of Haskell's tone disguises the import of his subject matter, which, as in his earlier essay "The Painful Birth of the Art Book," is ultimately the evolving social practice of art itself.
Haskell's story begins with temporary exhibitions of works by past masters in Italian churches and moves on to the dealers' galleries and auction houses in London and Paris that gave connoisseurs opportunities to see significant groups of pictures after the French Revolution forced aristocratic collections on the market. The revolution also produced unintentionally temporary exhibitions: Napoleon displayed masterpieces looted from churches and palaces in Flanders, Spain and Italy; Waterloo spelled their return, for the most part, to their owners.
Finally, in 1815, the first true Old Master show in London presented Dutch and Flemish pictures, beginning a series that generally attracted crowds and earned profits for their organizers. They became fashionable scenes; indeed, Haskell tells us, "No museum has ever been able to attract such attention to itself until the promotion, within the last two or three decades, of chic, money-seeking soirees and dinner parties -- and attention was certainly needed if the Old Master exhibition was to succeed in competing with what had always been the glamour associated with displays of contemporary art." Though Haskell does not stress the point, it is evident that his subject here is part of the story of the displacement of contemporary art as the primary reference for art appreciators by the art of the past, and so part of the story of the invention of modernism as an ideology of the contemporary.
Early exhibition organizers were happy to show painted and cast reproductions of famous paintings and sculptures. On the other hand, the development of photography, which first made it possible to document an artist's complete works, suggested the assembly of a representative selection of originals. What allowed this to happen over time was the "radical change" that took place around 1900 "in the relationship between private collectors, museums and exhibitions": not only did taxation prove more powerful than revolutions in moving art from private homes into museums, but "after 1918 . . . museums began to lend pictures to international exhibitions on a regular basis," eventually producing the shifting global gallery of the present moment.
Whatever the art-historical ambitions for definitiveness of judgment enshrined in the catalogs and symposiums that accompany these shows, in real life "every Old Master exhibition is the result of a series of unplanned compromises." While pictures may be carefully chosen, just as in war and politics "developments in taste and scholarship" are, as in war and politics, "subject to accident," dependent on the whims of collectors, the ambitions of local and national governments and the financial interests of any number of people.
A fascinating example, to which Haskell devotes a chapter, is the exhibition of Italian masterworks put on in England in 1930, organized by Ivy, Lady Chamberlain, wife of Sir Austen Chamberlain, the foreign minister in the Conservative government. Capitalizing on Mussolini's desire to stay on good terms with the British government, Ivy got him to force Italian museums and collectors to supply her with such pictures as Botticelli's "Birth of Venus." Today, the pressure to lend pictures, "which in the first half of the 20th century was political," more often "comes from the demands of publicity and finance from within the museums themselves." At all times, it seems, aesthetic questions cannot in practice be separated from other social interests. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: EPHEMERAL MUSEUM, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ART HISTORY (91%); PAINTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); LITERATURE (73%); BUDGETS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: MATTICK, PAUL; HASKELL, FRANCIS FRANCIS HASKELL (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



806 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 5; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF

BYLINE: Compiled by Warren Strugatch 

 BODY:

Business Owners Project Increases, Survey Finds
About half of some 450 Long Island business owners are projecting that revenues will increase by as much as 25 percent next year, the seventh annual Long Island Economic Survey and Opinion Poll has found. 
 The annual survey was conducted by mail in October by Dowling College and Albrecht, Viggiano, Zureck & Company, a Hauppauge accounting firm. The firm sent out questionnaires to some 7,500 businesses employing 25 or more people, and of those, 453 responded.
More than two-thirds of those surveyed said they expect to increase personnel in 2001. Four out of 10 planned to expand, build or purchase a new plant on Long Island next year.
Only 3 percent of the business owners said they planned to relocate out of Nassau or Suffolk, down from 17 percent in 1994.
"Long Island business executives seem to be more optimistic than their counterparts around the country," said Leonard Viggiano, the managing partner in the accounting firm. "Historically, the region lags behind the rest of the country. In both good times and bad, we always seem to be a couple of years out of sync with everyone else."
 
Around the Island
The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System has announced plans for a $20 million, 50,000-square-foot addition to the Boas Marks Biomedical Science Research Center in Manhasset. The new building will include 15,000 square feet of incubator space for biomedical start-ups. New York State will provide about $3.5 million in planning and environmental engineering costs. . . . Representative-elect Felix Grucci Jr. has stepped down as the president of Fireworks by Grucci in Brookhaven and has been replaced by Donna Grucci Butler, his sister. . . . Symbol Technologies (NYSE: SBL) in Holtsville has announced that it has won a contract to provide Wal-Mart Stores with wireless hand-held computers and accessories. The terms of the deal were not announced. . . . Richard Turan has been named the interim administrator of the Nassau University Medical Center in East Meadow. Mr. Turan accepted the position after 10 months as president of the Long Island Forum for Technology, which provides manufacturing advice in Farmingdale. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOWLING COLLEGE; ALBRECHT VIGGIANO ZURECK & CO WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOWLING COLLEGE; ALBRECHT VIGGIANO ZURECK & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRENDS (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BIOMEDICINE (71%); RELOCATIONS (70%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (65%); CONTRACT AWARDS (65%); ENGINEERING (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: RICHARD TURAN (75%); DONNA GRUCCI BUTLER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



807 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: A White-Hot Housing Market Finally Cools

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
THE region's ultimate adult toy, the million-dollar-and-up home, is suddenly losing its frenzied appeal and languishing longer on the real estate market shelf.
From the traditional redoubts of the working rich and near-rich in the Manhasset and Port Washington areas to the Gold Coast mansions and McMansions in the woodsy enclaves surrounding Locust Valley to the voraciously land-consuming second-home tracts of the Hamptons, a high-end hiatus has set in. 
 The cooling in what had been the most spectacularly advancing segment of the Long Island market is so recent -- and, some predict, temporary -- that home-sale figures attesting to it have not yet been compiled. But anecdotal information from the front lines abounded this month.
Real estate professionals and mortgage lenders, unaccustomed to the quiet after a string of years marked by breakneck buying, said that selling prices, which until recently seemed to brook no limit, may have finally hit the roof, and might surge no higher.
While all agreed that the apparent tailing off in the long economic boom of the 1990's and this year's significant downturn on Wall Street were determining factors in the newly cooled market, views were mixed on whether prices for expensive homes might actually come down.
What was apparent, these professionals said, was the advent of a period of cautious waiting in which buyers were hanging back. Homes placed on the market by owners who would only sell if stratospheric asking prices were met were more likely to remain unsold, they said, and even some competitively priced houses were going begging as buyers, differing with some of the brokers, bet that the high-end prices might be on their way down as inventory builds.
The time from Thanksgiving to New Year's Day is normally the annual low point for real estate activity, with potential buyers distracted by holiday pursuits and year-end investment decisions.
But after a burst of buying from mid-September to early November, the seasonal pause this year began at least two weeks earlier than usual, said Carole Belley, the owner and a broker at Lovejoy Real Estate in Manhasset.
"A lot of people looking in this area have money on Wall Street, and if they feel uncertain they say, 'Let's wait,' " Mrs. Belley said. "And there was the uncertainty of the election, and then of course Wall Street was kind of in turmoil."
The fiscal turmoil in Nassau County and the countywide property reassessment now underway there were taken in stride in Manhasset, where top-rated public schools and a 26-minute L.I.R.R. commute to Manhattan were traditional lures, Mrs. Belley and others said. "That doesn't affect us," Mrs. Belley said.
In Port Washington, Emma McMahon, manager of the Daniel Gale MacCrate real estate agency, said the local market for more expensive homes had been characterized until recently by bidding wars among buyers using stock-market profits. While Mrs. McMahon saw strength and resiliency in the high-end market, she and others said the bidding wars, which sometimes lifted sales prices above asking prices, were less frequent now.
Mrs. McMahon said she expected that prices would continue to rise at 2 to 3 percent a year, far below the annual increases that ranged as high as15 percent since the mid-1990's. "But I don't think we are going to go backwards," she said.
Robert M. Moulton, president of the American Mortgage Group of Manhasset and Southampton, said a telltale sign for the short-term future of the high-end housing market would be the size of year-end bonuses paid by Wall Street brokerages and related businesses. He said bonus money had been a significant factor in mortgage lending.
Frank C. Inman, a first vice president at PaineWebber in Manhasset, said stock declines meant the traditional moving-up pattern that accounted for most high-end sales in North Hempstead was on hold. "People felt a lot wealthier nine months ago," he said. "They won't be getting that bigger house down the block."
Jack Pierce, director of sales and marketing for Emeritus Mortgage Alliance in Huntington, a lender active in the Locust Valley area, said that an "air of caution" pervaded now, but might end soon. "With these downturns," he said, "you notice things slow until people reach a comfort level, and I think that's what we are going through right now."
Bonnie Devendorf, a vice president and the managing broker for the Locust Valley office of Daniel Gale Real Estate, said inventory was about 30 percent higher than a year ago.
"We have seen a leveling off on the high end, both of selling prices and clients," Mrs. Devendorf said. "People seemed to take a step backward and paused to see what would happen with the election, and then of course the stock market has not been doing as well."
She said that while a market slowdown was the norm as Christmas approached, this year it started earlier and was more pronounced. "We hope things will continue again after the New Year begins," she said.
Patrick H. Mackay, president of Piping Rock Associates, another real estate company in the Locust Valley area, said he detected the slowdown as early as the summer.
"The problem," he said, "is a combination of our lack of inventory, frustration of potential purchasers in that they look and look and can't find what they want, and a slowdown on Wall Street that has made people hesitant as to what will happen.
"I don't want to say that there is a general malaise, that would be too broad-brushed," Mr. Mackay said. "But certainly there has been a slowdown, no doubt about that."
But, he added, three homes ranging in price from $3.25 million to over $9 million, two of which had been on the market for months, were attracting a number of potential buyers.
Jim Morgo, president of the Long Island Housing Partnership, an affordable housing group in Hauppauge, said conditions were very different lower on the market and particularly difficult for first-time buyers with limited income.
Mr. Morgo said houses selling for less than $150,000 were rare in Nassau and Suffolk. Even when they could be found, he said, they were beyond the reach of families with incomes of less than $60,000.
"We see no diminution in prices or in demand," Mr. Morgo said. "Maybe in those toney areas things may have flattened out, but in middle- and lower-income areas it's still an upward spiral."
But some real estate experts familiar with mid-market residential areas said they too had seen a slowdown, or even a pause, in price increases.
"People aren't panic-buying now," said Patrick McEvoy, president of Choice Appraiser Network, a real estate appraisal company in Melville. "Until recently, when something came on the market people would snap at them and pay more than the asking because they didn't want to lose the house. Now it's more realistic. But I believe the prices are still rising."
Mr. McEvoy said Melville sales prices had increased by 12 to 15 percent annually for the past several years.
Harvey Brittman of Century 21 Prevete, which has an office in Hicksville, said prices were stable and inventory was on the rise.
Mr. Brittman said the period of greatest increases in Hicksville was from late 1998 to about May of this year, during which prices went up by about 30 percent. "We have had kind of a pause here for a while," he said. "My feeling is that in February or March prices may go down a little. It becomes a question of supply and demand, and right now the supply is increasing."
Even in the Hamptons, where prices have risen most feverishly, real estate professionals were expecting the market to cool down. Diane Saatchi, an owner and broker of Dayton-Halstead Real Estate, which has several South Fork offices, said prices doubled on average over a one-year period that ended in October, trumping annual increases of about 20 percent that began in 1997. Ms. Saatchi said such a pace could not be sustained.
"You would have to take a giant step forward, and it appears to me that isn't going to happen," she said. "It's hard for me to believe that sellers are going to be stepping up the actual asking prices that are here now."
The Hamptons market is more susceptible to economic changes, brokers said. They said that just as the bull market on Wall Street gave buyers the discretionary income to buy second homes, a stock decline could freeze the second-home market.
But Ms. Saatchi cautioned that while prices might moderate, the local housing market had endured before, and might again.
"Every year for the last four years, after Labor Day until Christmas, there has been some event that has us thinking the boom was going to be over," she said. "People say the party is over. It gets quiet. And then Christmas comes and goes and the market picks up like nothing has happened."
Some said they were hopeful that the pace of South Fork development might have peaked. "Very anecdotally, we are hearing that things seem to be softening and the maniacal pace of land development is starting to possibly peter out," said Kevin McDonald, vice president of the Group for the South Fork, a private land conservation and planning group in Bridgehampton.
He said a pause and a slackening of pressure on undeveloped land would give the towns of East Hampton and Southampton more time to advance carefully considered land preservation plans. "If things slow down a little bit, it will be good for the region," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: There are houses for sale, like the one in Matinecock, above, but a buying frenzy may be tapering off. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 4); For sale signs are lasting longer outside high-end homes. Above, a Lattingtown scene. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); THANKSGIVING (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN CAROLE BELLEY (68%); EMMA MCMAHON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



808 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 3; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: THEATER: YEAR IN REVIEW;
Searching for Happy Chorus Girls and Finding Plays

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
WHEN a century turns, nearly everything assumes a ridiculous symbolic weight. What we normally perceive as life as usual suddenly becomes a vision of heaven or hell, of a redeeming future or a yawning abyss. Viewed along these lines, the year 2000 was a sad one for the theater, most notable for losses that signaled the ends of creatively fertile eras. But, if you looked hard, there were heartening signs of new life stirring and a couple of spectacular acts of resurrection.
 
CURTAINS -- They died within a month of each other, the ultimate English actor's actor and the ultimate American producer's producer. And when the long lives of John Gielgud and David Merrick ended, at 96 and 88 respectively, the world of the theater shrank abruptly. Gielgud was the romance of stage acting incarnate. Audiences watched him -- and his Titanic peers, Ralph Richardson and Laurence Olivier -- work their way through the classics the way audiences today watch Tiger Woods conquer golf courses. Merrick was brassy, tyrannical and diabolically smart as he strove to turn every show he produced, whether it was "Hello, Dolly!" or "Marat/Sade," into something epochal. Both men were giants in their passion, and whether they charmed or annoyed, they got people excited about the theater in a way that is inconceivable today. 

SO WHERE ARE THE CHORUS GIRLS? -- The spectacle-driven musical took a merciful leave of absence this year, while Broadway opened a compelling series of -- who'd a thunk it? -- real plays. There were the inevitable revivals, but in the cases of "The Real Thing" and "A Moon for the Misbegotten," they were revivals that brought out new facets in old friends. And there were also, surprisingly, genuinely new plays (including Michael Frayn's "Copenhagen," which was about physics, for heaven's sake, and Claudia Shear's "Dirty Blonde"). Most surprising of all, theatergoers went to them.
 
I SAID, WHERE ARE THE CHORUS GIRLS? -- The most appealing new musical to open on Broadway was "The Full Monty," a modest, tuneful piece about unemployment in Buffalo, in which scenery was secondary and only the guys took off their clothes.
 
I MEANT HAPPY CHORUS GIRLS -- Not one but two new musicals were inspired by Joseph Moncure March's "Wild Party," the jazz-age fable of lust, death and substance abuse. There was Andrew Lippa's version at the Manhattan Theater Club and George C. Wolfe and Michael John LaChiusa's interpretation on Broadway. Both were dark, dour and downright moralistic about the wages of sin. Before you could raise (or break) a glass, both parties were over.
 
YOU CALL THAT A CHORUS GIRL? -- Lypsinka, the feminine alter-ego of John Epperson, returned to the stage in a blinding burst of starlight with "The Boxed Set," a one-diva show in which she lip-synched to recorded songs, cabaret acts and movie dialogue. And yes, it was art, of a supremely canny and disciplined order, and it revealed a lot about how women are imprisoned by image. Other essential sui generis voices given resonant articulation off Broadway this year: that of the writer-director Richard Maxwell, who found the improbable drama in numbed prosaic lives with "Boxing 2000," and of Stephen Adly Guirgis, who brought new polemical fire to the debate play with his scorching tale of two prisoners, "Jesus Hopped the 'A' Train."
 
SO WHY ISN'T SHE ON BROADWAY? -- The year's single most accomplished performance in a musical was once again provided by Donna Murphy, a two-time Tony winner for "Passion" and "The King and I." Unfortunately, Ms. Murphy's witty, mercurial reinvention of the role created by Rosalind Russell in "Wonderful Town" lasted for less than a week, since it was part of the glorious Encores! concert series of vintage American musicals at City Center. There was excited talk that those gung-ho producers Fran and Barry Weissler might bring the show to Broadway. Instead, they gave us "Seussical."
 
REJECTED GODDESS MAKES GOOD -- "Tiny Alice," Edward Albee's drama of symbol, substance and religious martyrdom, was greeted with catcalls and head-scratching when it opened on Broadway in 1964. It has now returned in a crackling Off Broadway production at Second Stage, directed by Mark Lamos and starring Richard Thomas and Laila Robins, that brings out the work's wit and self-mocking melodrama. This time, people are applauding. They should be.
 
THE THEATER OF RESURRECTION -- Second Stage, by the way, wins the prize as the season's most indispensable theater, offering New Yorkers their first looks at "Saturday Night," which featured a score by a fledgling composer named Stephen Sondheim, and August Wilson's "Jitney." The latter, a reworking of one of Mr. Wilson's first dramas, turned out to be not only the best rewrite of the season. It also, under Marion McClinton's direction, became the showcase for the strongest, most organic ensemble work in New York.
 
ALL THIS AND TESTOSTERONE, TOO -- Playing seemingly antithetical brothers who turn into each other, Philip Seymour Hoffman and John C. Reilly delivered the year's most vital acting lessons in the pulsing revival of Sam Shepard's "True West." The adrenaline level in the production, directed by Matthew Warchus, was sky high; so was the sheer actorly finesse that produced it.
 
WHAT AGE DID YOU SAY THEY WERE? -- Two octogenarians offered testimony to the invigorating powers of a life in the theater. The sublime actress Eileen Heckart turned the disconnections of senility into elegiac poetry in "The Waverly Gallery," Kenneth Lonergan's exquisitely empathetic study of an elderly woman with Alzheimer's disease. And the 84-year-old Horton Foote gave us one of the finest plays of his rich and prolific career, "The Last of the Thorntons," produced by the Signature Theater Company. Mr. Foote's subject is dispossession in old age, as manifested in a nursing home in small-town Texas. But the form of this piercingly observed play, like that of Ms. Heckart's performance, is a triumph of art over time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Far left, Richard Thomas and Laila Robins in Edward Albee's "Tiny Alice"; center, Donna Murphy in the City Center Encores! revival of "Wonderful Town"; and Eileen Heckart in Kenneth Lonergan's play "The Waverly Gallery." (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THEATER (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (85%); MILLENNIUM (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); GOLF (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



809 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4169 words

HEADLINE: Things Are What They Used to Be

BYLINE: By David Hajdu; David Hajdu is the author of "Positively 4th Street: The Lives and Times of Joan Baez, Bob Dylan, Mimi Baez Farina and Richard Farina," which will be published in the spring by FSG.

 BODY:
I have been trying to remember the night I first saw Jane Monheit, but a synaptic gremlin keeps switching on my childhood memory of watching the Beatles on "The Ed Sullivan Show." The reason, surely, is their hair, so startling in both cases that it distracted me from the music. Monheit was about 20, and she was sitting in with a small jazz combo at an Upper Manhattan nightclub called Augie's. Dressed for comfort like the undergraduate she was, casual at the microphone, she sang a romantic Tin Pan Alley ballad in a voice I can scarcely recall. Her face and most of the top half of her body were covered by a fishing trawl of curly brown hair. Nothing occurred to indicate that I might be watching anyone but another of the countless talented young women serving their apprenticeships in New York's clubs, cabarets and piano bars every night. Besides, I already knew who the Next Thing in jazz singing would be: Dominique Eade.
An impossibly versatile vocalist, composer, lyricist and instrumental arranger, Eade also happened to be delicately attractive and blond. Entertainment Weekly had named her the jazz artist "most likely to be tomorrow's star," and her picture had appeared on the cover of Billboard, which named her debut CD one of the best jazz albums of the year. She wrote her own sinuous, poetic songs. How could she fail? 
 Two and a half years after that night at Augie's, RCA Records has dropped Dominique Eade, and Jane Monheit has become one of the most talked-about singers around -- not only for her lush voice but also for the story her music and career tell about the state of jazz today. Monheit, who has emerged as a young siren in the tradition of a swing-era chanteuse, seems to embody mainstream jazz's wholesale submission to nostalgia. Absorbed with the glories of its past and tentative about its future, jazz has grown content to revel in the conservative pleasures of ennobling sentiment. The musical environment that has made Jane Monheit a phenomenon is a jazz world George W. Bush would understand.
Like Eade, who has not only written her own music but also toured while she was pregnant, many young women who have dared to challenge the conventional roles for female jazz singers have been losing their battles with the record industry. Judi Silvano, a singer and composer who often uses her voice like a trumpet in venturesome pieces with no words, has found her contract with Blue Note lapsed and now records for her own label. Nora York, who likes to experiment with jazz and pop music by, say, combining the standard "You Go to My Head" with Jimi Hendrix's "Manic Depression," records for prominent labels in Japan but must record for small independents here. "Every time I talk to anyone at a major label," York says, "they tell me they have no idea what they would do with me."
Exceptions like Cassandra Wilson and Dianne Reeves have generally set creative courses outside of the jazz establishment. "My expectations from the beginning were not to be a quote-unquote jazz star," says Wilson, who has virtually created her own genre of vaguely jazz-styled world pop. "I came up through a system that was much more under the radar, the independent labels. I've done most of my work in that context, so I had no one standing over me saying I had to sing the standard repertoire in order to record. You have people like Betty Carter, Abbey Lincoln, even Billie Holiday as examples of that ability of a jazz singer to pretty much set her own tone. But you also have the other side of that, the kind of singers who are dependent upon the standard repertoire, and that seems to be back in vogue."
Indeed, almost every top-selling jazz vocal album today is a collection of standards sung with traditional instrumentation, and not merely because the jazz charts are riddled with compilations tied to Ken Burns's soon-to-be-broadcast documentary homage to classicism, "Jazz." Diana Krall, Tony Bennett and Harry Connick Jr., for example, sing virtually nothing but standards. Even the composer, pianist and singer Patricia Barber recently released her first album of standards, "Nightclub," after four CD's with provocative original material, and she has had her first major hit with it.
Amid all this, says Will Friedwald, longtime vocal-jazz observer and author of "Jazz Singing," Monheit has become "the Retro Princess." Just 23 (and just barely), Monheit has recorded only one CD, an album of vintage tunes released only eight months ago. But the record, "Never Never Land," is a hit, doubling in sales in one week's time to make the Billboard jazz Top 10 in mid-December. What's more, she has given several high-profile performances in New York -- the details of which signal the extraordinary support she is receiving from within the music industry.
In July, Monheit played a week at the Village Vanguard, a place of pilgrimage in jazz, where singers are rarely granted the stage, and then more likely as a valedictory than a coming out. "When everybody in the jazz community heard that she was playing the Vanguard, it was shocking," says Silvano, who has performed in the club only as a member of the saxophonist Joe Lovano's ensemble. "It was like, 'What?!' I mean, the last time I heard a singer at the Vanguard, it was Abbey Lincoln or Shirley Horn. For the Vanguard to book this young woman was pretty strange."
Following that Vanguard run, Monheit did two shows in Lincoln Center's Great American Songbook series. The program's director, Jonathan Schwartz, was impressed by both the singing on Monheit's debut CD and by the distinguished (and expensive) musical company she has kept. Players enlisted for the recording included the pianist Kenny Barron, the bassist Ron Carter, the guitarist Bucky Pizzarelli and the saxophonist David (Fathead) Newman -- a band that, like the Village Vanguard, confers instant legitimacy to the jazz cognoscenti. "The musicians who inhabited the album are the top-drawer people working in this country," Schwartz says.
Over the next month, Monheit will be fully embarked on a career trajectory closer to that of a pop star than a jazz singer. This evening, she'll do the New Year's Eve show at the Blue Note in Manhattan, and she'll be in the club through the end of this week (in another exception to the jazz rules; the Blue Note and the Vanguard are known to discourage all but their top attractions from appearing in the competing venues). By the end of January, Monheit will have given a recital at Steinway Hall with the pianist Tommy Flanagan, one of his first performances of this sort since his tenure as Ella Fitzgerald's accompanist decades ago, and she will have begun recording a new CD with designs on expanding her audience beyond the jazz world.
But why has she, in particular, attracted such attention so quickly? How could a young, middle-class woman from Long Island be so successful performing music of her parents' and grandparents' times?
Jane Monheit is a jazz singer whose personal history is practically an inversion of "The Jazz Singer," the 1927 movie that set the narrative mold for popular singers' life stories: independent-minded young artist rejects the music of the older generation to blaze a provocative new path, the plot of virtually every music biopic from "The Benny Goodman Story" to "The Buddy Holly Story." Monheit, a family-oriented young artist, has rejected the provocative music of her own generation to follow her elders' direction.
"I grew up in Oakdale, a completely average suburban town, aside from the fact that it's all on the water, which is really neat, because I had a canal in my backyard," she says in a light, sweet voice. A girlish woman, she is soft and round-featured, and she hunches over a bit when she talks, as if she were sneaking to avert a school teacher's gaze.
"My parents rule!" she exclaims. "When I was growing up, we kind of did everything together. We're still the same way. I totally love it." Monheit goes home to Long Island at least once every couple of weeks, she says, and she and her mother talk a few times daily. She mentions this without piety or shame, much as she sings the old-fashioned love songs of the 30's and 40's without inflated sentiment or contorting irony.
Monheit is a warm, open person, on and off stage. At her Lincoln Center performance, she chatted about her parents between songs and dedicated "Over the Rainbow" to her father, who was beaming a few rows from the front. (David Monheit, who owns a machine-tool business and plays bluegrass guitar and banjo for pleasure, so bursts with pride in his daughter that he's known in the family as Puff Daddy.)
She has a playful sex appeal; when she sings, she holds the microphone in her right hand and massages the hub of the mike stand with her left. Yet the essence of her personality and her music is pure warmth. She sings in the color pink. There is none of the cynical grit and detachment -- the rock-and-roll attitude -- of her recent predecessors in vocal jazz, Diana Krall or Patricia Barber. Monheit has a prerock style. She sings and acts a great deal like a sexy, young, white Ella Fitzgerald.
In early December, she went to visit her maternal grandparents in Bellmore, less than an hour from Oakdale, and I tagged along. When we arrived at her grandparents' house, a meticulously tended shingle cottage, her family was waiting in the living room, which has been the home base of Jane Monheit's musical education. It looks like a cross between Good Housekeeping's model parlor of 1960 and a recording studio and, in fact, has served as the latter for Monheit since she was a toddler. Lined along one wall are a xylophone, a drum kit, several guitars (one electric with an amplifier, for Jane's only sibling, David, 19), a good home recording system and hundreds of CD's and albums (shelved alphabetically but cross-categorized by computer), mostly jazz of the swing era.
Here, Jane Monheit has been learning songs and making recordings since the age of 28 months, largely under the tutelage of her grandfather, Ernest Newton, a retired high-school science teacher. She grew up calling her recorded voice "the Other One Jane."
I got to listen to a few highlights of Monheit's mammoth home recording output, including a lovely, pitch-perfect rendition of "Over the Rainbow" made when she was 3 years old. She is thinking of doing the song on one of her next albums, which might be her 50th or 60th, counting all the tapes she made with her grandfather. "I heard most of the jazz I ever heard in my life, until college, in this house," Monheit says. Her grandfather's taste, however, wasn't overly adventurous. "I didn't know what Coltrane sounded like until I went to college," she says.
At Connetquot High, Monheit was the school theater star. "I played the lead in all the plays, and I loved it," she says. "Musical theater -- I mean, don't even get me started. The first time I saw 'The Music Man' on Broadway, I could hardly stop crying through the whole thing, because I was just so overjoyed to be sitting in a theater watching a wonderful production of that show. Rebecca Luker has been one of my idols forever."
When she moved to New York for voice study at the Manhattan School of Music, Monheit gravitated to the cabaret scene, belting show tunes in Village piano bars -- a world apart from the insular society of jazz purists. "I don't really do any kind of musical theater-y things right now, things that haven't become standards, but I would really like to," she says. "I used to spend so much time hanging out at piano bars like Eighty-Eights. I loved that place! Oh, my God -- I was such a little theater freak!"
It was her college boyfriend, Rick Montalbano, a jazz drummer, who steered Monheit away from cabaret and toward a serious concentration on jazz. She began singing with a group he played in, a hard-swinging quintet featuring the tenor saxophonist Joel Frahm and the pianist David Berkman. They did a tour of New England colleges together and gigged a bit around Manhattan, mostly at Augie's uptown, where I found myself captivated by her hair.
Music legend teaches us that Sam Phillips, the owner of Sun Records, figured he would make a billion dollars if he could find a good-looking young white boy who sang like a Negro, and he found Elvis Presley. In the fall of 1998, Carl Griffin, the head of artists and repertory for the multimedia company N2K (and now the president of its spinoff record label, N-Coded Music) was absorbed with a quandary posed by a growing trend in jazz: more and more of the best-selling CD's had been made by performers who were dead.
After generations of being an adventurous, exploratory music always probing forward -- an avant-garde art of the American street -- jazz flipped backward, focusing on its past. Starting in the 80's, a repertory movement led in New York by Wynton Marsalis elevated the status of jazz in the formal hierarchy of the performing arts and institutionalized the music. At Lincoln Center, Marsalis's jazz program finally gained acceptance as a full constituent, officially equal in status to the Metropolitan Opera and the New York Philharmonic. A repertory movement needs a repertory, of course; hence, institutions like Lincoln Center and the Smithsonian Institution culled from the past a canon of creators and interpreters -- Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Ella Fitzgerald, Billie Holiday, Miles Davis -- that became increasingly iconographic.
"Too much of the industry's attention is being lavished on the seminal figures, and the consequence of that has been dire," explains Jeff Levenson, a former vice president for jazz at the Warner Brothers and Columbia labels. "Problems have come from the desire to get the culture to legitimize this music so that it can become a packageable idiom that attracts corporate dollars."
For established jazz labels with extensive holdings of vintage recordings, the battle between "catalog product" and "roster talent" is no contest. It is, self-evidently, far more economical to fold fresh wrapping around old recordings than it is to sign, nurture and market new artists. "It stunts the development of new artistry," Levenson says. "In very practical terms, if you're not among the uninitiated, you go into a store and you are confronted with a decision of the complete Monk on Blue Note for $12 or the new Eric Reid or Brad Mehldau. The dice are loaded. You're going to go with the seminal figure at the expense of discovering new artists."
And so a recent college graduate who wears his hip taste in music as he wears his Campers might give a party and fill the CD tray with Beck and X and Nelly and, oh, one Ella and one Billie Holiday. Yes, musical juxtaposition can be fun, and most jazz (Dixieland and fusion notwithstanding) has a timeless cool. Still, one can't help wondering if said party-giver might not have played a smart, young jazz singer -- perhaps Paula West -- if he had a better chance to see and hear one.
Though the raging classicism in jazz has hurt more probative singers, it has helped Monheit. She was discovered by Carl Griffin on Sept. 25, 1998, at the Thelonious Monk competition, the prestigious annual contest that had previously introduced young jazz stars like the saxophonist Joshua Redman and the trumpeter Ryan Kisor. The winner in the vocal category was Teri Thornton, the 64-year-old singer and pianist who announced during her performance in the finals that she was battling cancer. (Thornton would die 20 months later.) Monheit, at 20 the youngest finalist in the competition, performed after Thornton in the finals, singing "Detour Ahead," and won the second-place title.
In Monheit, Griffin found his Elvis: a good-looking, young white woman who sings like a black jazz master of the past, specifically Ella Fitzgerald. "I heard the element of Ella that struck me -- very unusual for a girl 20 years old, especially a white girl," recalls Griffin, one of relatively few African-American executives in top positions at American jazz labels. "I said, 'O.K. -- she's in touch with the tradition, and she's young and beautiful. She's the best of both worlds. This is it!' "
Griffin introduced himself to Monheit at the reception after the Monk competition and offered her a record contract when she finished college. At the same reception, the personal manager Mary Ann Topper -- a figure of somewhat fearsome repute in jazz who has launched the careers of Diana Krall, Joshua Redman, Christian McBride and Michel Petrucciani -- scratched her mark in Monheit, next to Griffin's. Monheit graduated in June 1999, then signed with N-Coded Music (for two records with an option for three more) and with Mary Ann Topper's agency, the Jazz Tree (on undisclosed terms).
To establish the 21-year-old unknown instantly -- or "skip a few grades," as Topper, a former teacher, puts it -- Griffin made an estimable financial commitment to surround Monheit with premium jazz musicians. "I wanted to satisfy the jazz gods -- the critics and the opinion makers, whatever it took," Griffin explains. "So we made sure we had a Ron Carter, who has the respect of the industry, a Kenny Barron, who has the respect of the industry, Bucky Pizzarelli, Hank Crawford. You could not dispute those musicians. If you know anything about Ron Carter and Kenny Barron, they're not going to play behind anybody. That's not what they do. So, you automatically say, 'Hey, there must be something here if these guys are going to play behind this girl.' "
In fact, Carter ventured into the project tentatively. "Mary Ann had to work on him just to get him to listen to her," Griffin says. Once Topper took him to hear Monheit at the C-Note, however, Carter joined Barron as an enthusiastic participant.
The resulting album, an elegantly produced collection of standards released in May, bears out the musicians' confidence. Monheit took on the classic repertory with aplomb, blithely navigating the treacherous harmonic territory of such sophisticated compositions as Antonio Carlos Jobim's "Dindi" and Duke Ellington's "I Got It Bad (and That Ain't Good)." She is somewhat less assured with the rhythm numbers, but she makes only one jarring error -- mispronouncing "analyst" as "anal-ist" in Annie Ross's lyrics to "Twisted" -- and she employs her youthful theatrical experience to devastating effect on the ballads, especially "Detour Ahead" and "Never Let Me Go." Such is the market for a new Ella that Jane Monheit has become a major headliner with a Top 10 jazz album in the course of a professional career spanning just about six months.
Jane Monheit, who will be appearing at the Oak Room in the Algonquin in March, had never been to the hotel, so I took her to see the cabaret singer Susannah McCorkle on a recent Tuesday evening. At points during McCorkle's elegiac performance, I glanced at Monheit in approbation, and she scrunched her head down a bit as she does and whispered, "Awesome!"
After the show, I asked her if she thought she might approach performing at the Algonquin differently than, say, doing a set at the Village Vanguard (where she'll be returning in May). "I don't think so, no," she said, nodding. "I don't like to plan too much. I'll see how I feel.
"I just want to be true to myself," she said deliberately. "I just want to sing. I don't feel any big responsibility to do something different. I just want to sing great songs as well as I can. I'm not very worried about who did them before or how they did them or any of that.
"I like to do standards. They're so great, and you can sing them just everywhere. They're the best."
I found myself nodding back. The standard repertory is serving Monheit bountifully; she does exquisite justice to the material (again with the exception of some uptempo numbers, since she hasn't fully absorbed swing time); and she's performing a cultural service by carrying on the great American songbook for a new generation.
Or is she? Some singers see dangers in the au courant classicism. "It takes a lot of courage to develop yourself fully and create your own sense of who you are," says Judi Silvano. "Unfortunately, there seems to be a lot of expectations from the industry to be conservative. I think it's really hard for all creative musicians, especially vocalists, because they're expected to put on a show. Of course, it's easier for the record companies to sell music that people are familiar with. It's just human nature for people to be comfortable with what they know. For all artists, it's very difficult to present something new to your audience. That takes an enormous amount of commitment."
"Jazz," says Dominique Eade, "is just shooting itself in the foot, because if every singer has to be the same or a vixen -- if that's a prerequisite, there are some very important people who you're not going to hear from, and the music's going to suffer. I don't begrudge Jane Monheit. Do what you want to do. But I do lament the fact that it makes the entire environment so much more conservative for singers. That then becomes the model, and I think that's too bad."
Will Friedwald has the same concern. He says: "The future, and even the present, has to be about performers who are doing something new. It's not enough just to sing the great American songbook in a swinging, jazzy, fashion. The singers who are going to matter in the long run are those who have a sound and style and approach of their own, like Cassandra Wilson. Monheit is off to a fabulous start, but it'll be up to time to see if she can develop an individual style and sound."
Before Monheit left for Europe, Carl Griffin called a meeting with the producer Joel Dorn, their new star and a couple of record-company administrators to plan her second album. "This one is critically important now," Griffin said, standing behind his desk alongside a portrait of Malcolm X. "What can we do that's a little different but not too different, if you know what I mean?"
Dorn went over a list of songs they were planning to record: "I'll Be Seeing You," "I Was Doing All Right," "Spring Can Really Hang You Up the Most," "Nobody But Me." . . . Another page from the great American songbook.
Monheit piped up. "There's a tune by this band Bread, a 70's band" -- the tune was "If," a Muzak staple. ("If a picture paints a thousand words/Then why can't I paint you.") "I think I'd like to record that." Dorn seemed about to say something until Griffin eased him off with a pointed glance.
Retreating somewhat, Monheit suggested a haunting jazz ballad by Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn. "I'd like to do 'Something to Live For,' "she said. "Nobody does it, and it's great. That would be a little different." Silence, again. (According to the song's publisher, "Something to Live For" has been recorded at least 35 times over the past five years.)
"I'll tell you what I think we should do," Dorn interjected with brisk authority. A no-nonsense recording veteran, Dorn has produced Charles Mingus, Max Roach, Jimmy Scott, Roberta Flack and dozens of others over the past three decades. "Let's go with the classic material, but bring in a new crew (of musicians) a little younger -- younger versions of the classic players, younger people doing the old things."
That, everyone agreed, seemed the right course, a natural progression of Monheit's aesthetic. To accompany the young heir to Ella Fitzgerald, they would employ the successors to Tommy Flanagan, Ray Brown and Herb Ellis. The discussion shifted to various up-and-coming musicians and the jazz elders they sounded like.
Monheit, perhaps wisely, seems content to defer most important career decisions to her handlers. "Joel is awesome," she says. "I go into production meetings, and my brain is going all over the place, and I walk out and everything's falling in a nice, even straight line. And Mary Ann is amazing. She could take this little snail from the backyard and make it a big star. I said to Mary Ann, 'We're going good, right?' She was like: 'Oh, dahling. It's unheard of.' "
Personally, Monheit is hanging her dearest hopes on the distant future. "Jazz is a really good starting point for me," she says, "because it establishes me as a musician, and that is really important to me. I'm just hoping that I can grow from here and eventually become a lot more. The term 'jazz singer' defines only part of who I am. One of my greatest dreams in life is still to be on Broadway. I don't care how corny it is, it's so true."
In the meantime, she is finding her golden-scooter ride through the top of the jazz world a thrill. "I really love the glamour of it -- the fact that I get to sing and sign some autographs and, you know, have people come do my hair and makeup and put on some extravagant gown," Monheit says. "It's like playing dress-up. And when I go home, I get take to a check with me. It's like, come on! How lucky am I?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Babe in Swingland: Monheit at the Village Vanguard in New York (Barron Claiborne); Monheit in Hamburg with her manager, Mary Ann Topper, the Colonel Parker of jazz. (Gilliver Theis for The New York Times); Jazz women, present and future tense (from left); Dominique Eade; Cassandra Wilson; Judi Silvano; Dianne Reeves; Patricia Barber. (Wilson: Bruce Cotler/Globe Photos. Silvano. Reeves. Barber: Jack Vartoogian.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (67%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; JAZZ JAZZ & BLUES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (68%); 

PERSON: HAJDU, DAVID; MONHEIT, JANE GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



810 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4085 words

HEADLINE: Reagan Writes

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:

Former President Ronald Reagan will be gently reminded on this coming Feb. 6 that it is his 90th birthday. Affectionate greetings will pour in from all over the world, and many historians will note that his policies in the 80's not only curbed a raging inflation but also helped bring about the end of the cold war.
And yet that appreciation for his skill as "the Great Communicator" will be tempered by the impression held by many that the amiable Reagan was essentially an actor, a skilled performer who relied on lines written by his aides. But thanks to the recent discovery of a trove of 670 of his radio speeches, written in the late 1970's as the former California governor prepared to run for president, we can see the development of an unconventional political thinker and controversialist. 
 He wrote the conservative essays himself, in ink on yellow pads, often while on airplanes. No ghostwriter submitted a draft. In the Reagan Revolution that was a-borning, these handwritten documents prove (to the dismay of all speechwriters) that the original revolutionary was Ronald Reagan.
Most of the documents were found by the scholar Kiron K. Skinner among the Reagan papers. They are raw drafts, with Reagan's self-editing apparent, and reveal a writer adept at marshaling a philosophical argument in a listener-friendly, conversational style. In today's age of composition on computers and writing by government committee, we are struck by the workings of one man's mind expressed through a pen in his hand.
One of the selections from "Reagan, In His Own Hand," to be published next month, was found in Reagan's desk by Martin Anderson and Annelise Anderson of the Hoover Institution, who edited the book with Skinner. It goes beyond the radio scripts of the 70's into his presidency. How did he prepare for his first meeting with a Soviet foreign minister in 1984?
According to George Shultz, then our secretary of state, Reagan was supplied with talking points. The president took the suggestions to Camp David and wrote his own talking points, setting a different tone and explaining why we would respond strongly to the Russians' massive military buildup and why he intended to continue to assert the need for protection of human rights. Shultz recalls that Andrei Gromyko was "able to see that President Reagan was speaking about deep-seated beliefs and meant every word that he said."
That presentation was laid out in Reagan's own hand -- scripted by him for presentation by him -- and now illuminates the history of that moment. Shultz, reviewing the document, concludes, "Maybe he was a lot smarter than most people thought."
 
Electoral College,
PUB-DATE: April 13, 1977
After Vice President Walter Mondale presented the Carter administration's proposal to abolish the Electoral College in favor of direct popular election of the president, Reagan denounced the idea as limiting the campaign to "a cluster of metropolitan areas in a few states" -- which would greatly advantage Democratic candidates. He offered a counterproposal, keeping the state-by-state majority count but eliminating the chance of faithless electors. This essay may well presage the Republican response to Senator-elect Hillary Clinton's abolition proposal in the wake of the Bush-Gore election of 2000.
 
If the electoral college isn't on the endangered species list it should be. At least it should be declared a game bird and given a few months a year when it couldn't be shot at. I'll be right back.
The move is on to revise the election laws.-aAgain! High on the list of changes is the Electoral College which V. Pres. Mondale has proposed elim is elimination of the Electoral College. system. Now I doubt if very many of us could find an excuse for continuing the ceremony after each Presidential election in which appointed electors in each state (one for each Sen. & Congressman) go to the state capitol and re-elect the already elected Pres. And maybe some of you think that's all they are talking about doing.
Unfortunately there is more to it than that.The very basis for our freedom is that we are one nation Nation, a Fed. of Sovereign States. Our const. recognizes that certain rights belong to the state & cannot be infringed upon by the Nat. govt. This is the guaranty that small states or rural, sparsely populated areas will have a proportionate voice in national affairs.
Those who want to do away with the electoral college really mean they want the Pres. elected in a national referendum with no reference as to how each state votes. Thus a half dozen rural states could each show a majority for one candidate and be outvoted by one big industrial state opting for his opponent. What this kind of popular referendum means is that Presidential candidates would be tempted to aim their campaigns & their promises at a few states with big city populations cluster of metropolitan areas in a few states and the smaller states would be without a voice.
If the would be executioners of the electoral college are sincere let them eliminate the college but continue to tote up the vote by states. with each states decision giving it the majority in each state deciding that the state casts all it's votes (one for each Sen. & Congressman) for the winning candidate in that state Based on majority rule within each state that states electoral votes, one for each Congressman & Senator, would be given to the winner of the majority vote. The possibility of an appointed electoral going electoral college member voting on his own would be eliminated but everything else would remain the same. Yes it is possible under this system to have a Pres. with less than elected with a smaller total vote than his opponent but it has only happened 3 times in 200 yrs. Is that worse than having a Pres. who only carried a dozen out of our 50 states and got all the his votes from big urban areas? Would his programs in agriculture be fair to farmers or would they be aimed at helping consumers in big city markets?
The other proposed elec. law changes are equally flawed. The Hatch act would be liberalized so as to allow increased participation in campaigns by pub. employees. There are roughly 15 mil. govt. employees.-gGrant they each influence one additional vote and that is you have a voting block of 30 mil. with a vested interest in high taxes, big govt. & more govt. programs. A congressman or Senator would think twice before launching a crusade to reduce burocracy or govt. revenues.
Then there is a part of the reform calling for easy voter registration. Let the voters walk into the polls on election day and sign up & vote. The idea being that low voter turnouts are due to the present registration rules. Somehow they skip over the fact that mils. of already registered voters don't vote. What's their excuse?
And of course they pooh, pooh the idea that voter fraud might be encouraged. Well in one state right now where they have such easy registration the count in the last election of a Congressman has been challenged. So far they've found a half dozen oil stations, several warehouses & empty lots, a cemetery & two public parks that voted for him.
This is RR Thanks for listening.
 
Abortion Laws,
April 1975
 
This laboriously rewritten radio address shows the way Reagan wrestled with the abortion issue, first as governor and then writing later in retrospect. Note the way he crossed out long passages and concentrated his "answer as to what kind of abortion bill I could sign" into a succinct statement defining abortion as "the taking of a human life" and permitting it only in defense of the mother's life ("& I'll & include health") and in the case of rape. He later stopped including "and health." Subsequent G.O.P. platforms took a stronger anti-abortion position, but this document shows how Reagan framed the issue in his mind as he began his ascent to the presidency.
 
An unborn childs property rights are protected by law-it's right to life is not. I'll be right back.
Eight years ago when I became Gov. I found myself involved almost immediately in a controversy over abortion. It was a subject I'd never given much thought to and in a sense one upon which I didn't really have an opinion. In other words as But now I was Gov. and it turned abortion turned out to be something I couldn't walk away from. A bill had been introduced in the Calif. legislature to make abortion available upon demand. The pro & anti forces were already marshalling their troops and emotions were running high. Then the author of the bill sent word down that he'd amend his bill to anything I felt I could sign. The ball -- to coin a cliche -- was in my court. Suddenly the it had become necessary for me to take a position & on a subject I'd never before given as I said on a matter I'd never really ever given any thought to I had to have a position on abortion.
To shorten this down I did more studying, researching & soul searching on this matter than on any thing that faced was to face me as Gov. in all my those 8 years in office. I discovered that neither medicine, law or theology had ever really found a common ground on the subject. a com. any consensus on the Views ranged from those On one hand there were those who Some believed an unborn child was like some kind of no more than a growth on the body female & she should be able to remove it as she would her appendix. Others felt a human life existed from the moment the fertilized egg attached itself to the ovary wall was implanted in the womb. I now Strangely enough Calif. had a law passed almost unanimously by the same legis. that was so divided on th this on this subject couldn't agree on abortion had unanimously passed had passed by a virtually unanimous vote a law making anyone liable guilty of murder it murder to abuse a pregnant woman. to the extent that when so doing to so as to cause the "death of the her unborn child." I found further that an unborn child (called a fetus by those who support abortion) has property rights. Another inconsistency-the unborn have property rights protected by law. A man can will his estate to his wife & children & any children yet to be born of his marriage. Now a law is being proposed that Yet the proposed abortion law would let one person for whatever reason take the life of the that unborn child. deny the unborn the protection of the law in preserving its life.
I went to the lawyers on my staff and verified this property right right of the unborn to own property I've mentioned. Then I asked if there wasn't some inconsistency in deny denying the same unborn child the right to life. I posed a hypothetical question. Wouldn't an What if a wo pregnant woman were widowed and became a widow during her pregnancy & found her husband had left his fortune to her & the unborn child. Under the proposed abortion law couldn't she abort the child she could take the life of her child & inherit not half but all of her husbands estate. the entire fortune & where-in did was that this different from murder Wouldn't that be murder for financial gain? The only answer I got was that they were glad I wasn't asking the questions on the bar exam.
I learned from D the med. profession that from the moment of the a fertilized egg was is implanted in the womb an a individual human being had has been created with its individual physical characteristics & even personallity traits already established.
My answer to the his question of what kind of bill I could sign as a turned out to be a belief I now hold very strongly. An abortion is the taking of a human life. It can only be justified on the same grounds we permit in our Judeo- basis that we recognize the right to take a life in our Judeo-Christian tradition. the taking of a life in self defense That is in defense of our own. I believe a mother has the right to protect her life & I'll include her health against even her own unborn child if it is threatened by anyone including her own unborn child. I go so far as to say that just as she has the right to protect herself against rape she has the right to protect herself against the result of that rape & therefore can rid herself of a child or refuse to have a child resulting from rape.
There is a quite common acceptance in medical circles that the cell-let's call it the egg-once it has been fertilized is on it's way as a human being whose with individual physical traits & personality characteristics have already been established determined.
My answer as to what kind of abortion bill I could sign was a bill one that recognized an abortion was is the taking of a human life. In our Judeo-Christian religion we accept that each one of us has recognize the right to take life in defense of our own. Therefore an abortion is justified when it is done in self defense. My belief is that a woman has the right to protect her own life & I'll & include health against even her own unborn child. I also I believe also that just as she has the right to defend herself against a rapist rape she can protect herself against a child resulting from that violation of her person. rape she does should not have be made to bear a child resulting from that violation of her person and therefore abortion is an act of self defense.
I know there will be disagreement with this view but I can find no evidence whatsoever that a fetus is not a living human being with human rights.
 
Free Enterprise,
PUB-DATE: April 16, 1979
 
After four years of practice in writing these radio essays and as the 1980 presidential campaign approached, Reagan produced "clean copy" on a subject he liked to revisit: comparing the capitalist and socialist systems. In this 1979 address, he made a point of changing the terminology from "capitalist" to "free markets" and took the homely example of the telephone to show the benefits of the profit motive and the drawbacks of government intervention. A generation later, as global telecommunications exploded in use, the Reagan hands-off position largely remained the order of the day.
 
It isn't unfair to say that today the world is divided between those who believe in the free mkt. place & those who believe in govt. control & ownership of the economy.
I'll be right back.
Our free mkt. system is usually termed capitalism and by that definition capitalism has hardly been around long enough to deserve all the evil for which it is being held responsible.
Most of us aren't really conscious of how recently the capitalist system came into being. Possibly we look back & think of the extravagant luxury of kings & emperors & see that as capitalism. We have a modern counterpart today in the rulers of Marxist nations. The ruling hierarchy of the Soviet U. live on a scale more akin to royalty than do the heads of capitalist countries.
Maybe our trouble is caused by the term capitalist itself. Actually all systems are capitalist. It's just a matter of who owns & controls the capital-ancient king, dictator or private individual. We should properly be looking at the contrast between a free mkt. system where individuals have the right to live like kings if they can have the ability to earn that right and govt. control of the mkt. system such as we find today in socialist nations.
We have a very visible example of the contrast between the free mkt. & govt. ownership in a household necessity we take for granted. The invention of Alexander Graham Bell- the telephone offers us irrefutable proof of the superiority of the free mkt.
As recently as 1880 there were only 34,000 miles of telephone wires on the whole N. American Continent. There were dozens & dozens of small telephone companies using several different kinds of equipment and there was no inter-connection between these different count companies. The same situation prevailed in all the other so called advanced nations.
If someone had openly advanced a plan to put a phone in every home, on every farm, in every hamlet & city and hook them all together I'm sure someone would have said, "only govt. has the resources to do that."
Now strangely enough in most other countries govt. did take over the telephone system and to this very day the telephones in a great many countries are part
of the postal system. In America the govt. wasn't bulldozing it's way into the free mkt. place as it is today. For that we can be grateful. The scattered, competing phone companies were left to the magic of the mkt. place. And that magic worked as it always does.
We take the phone so much for granted it's hard to realize things weren't always this way. We can dial directly to virtually any point in the world country and to a great many outside the country.
With int no intention of insulting anyone it I have to say it only takes a few days trip in many of those other countries to where the telephone is a govt. service to realize there is a difference. Getting A long distance call there can be quite an adventure-so can getting a phone installed.
But here we have them in our cars if we like, in private or corporation owned executive planes & on boats. We bounce long distance calls off privately owned satellites and use telephone lines for network radio & remote broadcasts of sporting & special events.
And all of this came about because private individuals wanting to make a profit for themselves kept thinking of better ways to serve us, services to offer, confident that we'd want that better service.
This is RR Thanks for listening.
 
Mr. Minister,
Sept. 23, 1984
 
Before facing Andrei Gromyko, President Reagan put his thoughts in order about disarmament and human rights. He cut out his "I don't eat my young" opening and went directly to business. As the second crossed-out paragraph shows, he decided against expressing a willingness to negotiate limits to weapons in outer space. Note the diplomatic way he suggested that the lifting of our grain embargo was influenced by the Soviets' release of Pentecostal dissidents taking refuge in our Moscow embassy. In defending criticism of Soviet repression of human rights, he reminded Gromyko of the ethnic origins of Americans with a Reaganesque, "A man does not forget his mother because he has taken a wife."
 
Mr. Minister I've looked forward to this meeting and wish it could have taken place 3 or 4 years ago. I very much want to hear your views but if you dont mind I'd like to begin by expressing a few thoughts of my own, hoping that I can persuade you that I dont eat my young.
There are differences between our 2 pol. & ec. systems and I dont think either one of us will change. But we do have to live in the world together and we do have some things in common. We are both superpowers as viewed by the rest of the world and the rest of the world knows that the fate of all mankind is in our hands: that a war between us could literally wipe out all humankind.
Mr. Minister I tell you with all sincerity the U.S. will never start such a war. Now you may say you have nothing but my word for that but I ask you to look at the record. When W.W. II ended-a war in which we were allies, we were the only nation whose industry was intact, -- not ravaged by war. Our military strength was at it's greatest & we alone had the ultimate weapon, the nuclear bomb.
We could have dictated to the world. We didn't. Instead we set out to help not only our allies but also our erstwhile enemies to rebuild their economies & their industrial strength.
At the same time We dismantled our military and today have only 2/3 as many nuclear weapons as we had in 1967. We have in these last few several years removed 1000 nuclear weapons from Europe & will have removed another 1400 by 1988. -
Insert 1: During these same years-since the Salt I agreement was signed the Soviet U. has added 6000 warheads, 3800 of those since the signing of Salt II. Since 1972 we have built only 2 systems-you have built 31.
Yes we are rebuilding our depleted strength now because your own massive military buildup, the greatest in world history, is far beyond any defense needs and we feel it is a threat to us. From Lenin through Brezhnev your leaders & others high in your govt. have repeatedly proclaimed their dedication to world revolution & the eventual one world communist state. There were missiles in Cuba, continued expansion in S. East Asia & Africa as well as in Latin America.
Let me make it clear I'm citing some of the reasons why we feel you are a threat to our security and why we are determined to acquire sufficient strength to deter hostile action against us by you. We are not out to achieve superiority but we do not intend to become vulnerable to an attack or to an ultimatum in which our choice would be surrender or die. or to outright attack.
Now you have expressed a belief that we are the aggressor and while I've already listed some reasons why we dont think there is any substance for such a belief let me take that a step further. We are well aware of the great losses you suffered in W.W. II. We know also that history records invasions of Russia going back over the centuries. Can we not take steps to clear the air of these suspicions? Would not arms reductions be an easy problem to solve if we could prove to each other that we neither of us has any aggressive intent?
We both know that other countries have turned to nuclear weapons and more are quietly working to achieve that goal. The danger of some such proliferation is the possibility of accidental war brought on by neither of us but triggering a conflict that could ultimately involve us both. But what if we who have the power to destroy the world should join in saving it? If we can reach agreement on reducing and ultimately eliminating these weapons we could persuade the rest of the world to join us in doing away with all such weapons.
Your country has proposed the beginning of negotiations to limit weapons in outer space. We are ready for such negotiations but we also want to begin negotiations for the reduction of offensive nuclear forces. We think there is an inherent relationship between these 2 classes of weapons. We believe a first objective could be, conclusion of an interim agreement that establishes on the one hand immediate constraints on space weapons & on the other begins the process of reductions in offensive nuclear arms.
We have shown each other that we can make some progress on bilateral issues. We have come to agreement on some several matters beneficial to us both. Maybe one of the things we should consider with regard to arms negotiations is the presence of senior levels in addition to the technicians. Another idea is a back channel which allows us to explore problems and solutions and to exchange ideas informally without commitments. We are ready to begin such a process with you & Ambassador Dobrynin if you think such an idea has merit.
Mr. Minister I know you feel we are invading your sovereignty rights when we get into the area of human rights. I hope you've noticed that we would prefer quiet diplomacy on this subject but let me point out why we are concerned. Ours is a nation of immigrants. We are made up of the bloodlines of all the world and we our people retain a loyalty to the countries of our heritage. their origin. A man does not forget his mother because he has taken a wife. We also have a governmental system responsive to public opinion. It is easier for us to arrive at agreements with you if segments of our society are not upset by what they feel is a violation of human rights in the land of their ancestry. May I point to an example your handling of the matter of the pentacostal familys in our embassy. We have not, nor will we indicate in any way that this was anything other than a generous action by your govt. Your handling of that matter made such things as the grain embargo agreement easier for us to achieve.
I know some of your colleagues with less knowledge of our system than you have possibly think an American President can simply make decisions & they become policy or law. We have an elaborate system of checks & balances which as you know makes a President's life not quite that simple.
Mr. Minister the people of both our countries if asked would, I know, say peace was their greatest desire. If we really are worthy to be of being their leaders shouldn't we provide them with what they want above all else. And have we any right to lead if that is impossible for us to deliver?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ronald Reagan (Roger E. Sandler/Reagan. Bush); The Hand of Reagan: The former president's speeches are reproduced, warts and all. In the transcriptions, a cross-out represents a cut made by Reagan; an underline, an addition.; Desk Set: This page, the first of several devoted to a meeting with the Soviets, was discovered in one of Reagan's office drawers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAGAN, IN HIS OWN HAND (BOOK)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ELECTORAL COLLEGE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELECTORAL COLLEGE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); COLD WAR (76%); WRITERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LITERATURE (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; ANDERSON, MARTIN; ANDERSON, ANNELISE; SKINNER, KIRON K RONALD REAGAN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



811 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 4; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Greenwich, Gasp, Borrows Money

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE WOODSIDE 

 BODY:
OVER the years, Greenwich, like other municipalities, has had to pay for several capital projects. Recently, for example, it was $76 million to renovate schools. But unlike other towns, Greenwich does not sell municipal bonds to pay for its projects; its rich tax base allows it to pay cash.
The town is proud of its pay-as-you-go policy, which is why it was so surprising when earlier this month it entered the bond market to pay for 75 acres of open land, the first time the town has sold municipal bonds since it paid for a school project about 50 years ago. 
 "There was some apprehension with using the word 'bond,' " Edward Gomeau, the town controller, said about having to sell the idea to the Representative Town Meeting, the voting body for Greenwich. "Historically, and from a community point of view, there's not a lot of sentiment for trying to borrow money."
The bond, for $13.2 million, to buy 75 acres for a town park, was sold by Merrill Lynch on Dec. 20. But the town will repay the bond quickly: instead of the usual 20-year term of municipal bonds, Greenwich plans to pay its off in three years.
By selling the bonds, the town said it was saving money -- nearly $1 million in interest payments over three years, to be exact. The bond amounted to a refinancing of a note Greenwich had negotiated directly with the Pomerance family, who owned the property, last May, when it agreed to pay $22 million for the Cos Cob land. The town paid the landowners $4.4 million in cash at the closing.
Then officials agreed to pay the family the rest over four years. It had set aside the first payment, of another $4.4 million, in this year's budget.
Mr. Gomeau, the controller, realized that a general obligation bond would drop the interest rate from 6.5 percent to only 3.9 percent.
"I think if you can save a million dollars, you save a million dollars," he said. "That's a substantial sum any way you go."
One point the town liked, the controller said, was that the money was for land that would remain open space. That meant, once it was paid for, the town wouldn't have to put out a lot of money to maintain it. The Pomerance property features a pond and brook, and it adjoins a 180-acre town park and another 43-acre tract officials hope to buy soon.
The town has borrowed money in other ways, but rarely. It financed sewer extension projects with bonds, but these were paid mainly by only those residents who would be using the sewer lines, not by the general population. Then there was the private note with the Pomerance family.
To say Greenwich is a good risk for a financial institution is an understatement of gigantic proportion. By every standard measure financial institutions use to judge municipalities' ability to repay bonds, Greenwich is off the scale.
Of the thousands of cities and towns for which Standard & Poor's issues bond ratings, only 34 in the entire country have received the highest rating of AAA, but seven of them, or about 20 percent, are in Connecticut, said Parry Young, a director in public finance for the firm, which is a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies. The other municipalities are: Fairfield, Stamford, Norwalk, Ridgefield, West Hartford, and Avon. (Another bond-rating company, Moody's Investors Service, also issues ratings.)
The S & P ratings, based on the town's economy, tax revenues, and other debt, begin at BBB and go up from there.
Greenwich got the high rating because of two measures. It has a per-capita "effective buying income," or the amount of income considered readily available, is $51,000 -- 287 percent of the average in the country. Another measure of wealth is the value of all real estate, expressed as a per-capita figure. In Greenwich, it's $356,000. S & P considers the rating "high" if it's $60,000.
"They're six times higher than high," Mr. Young said. "The average is $97,000 among the 34 communities Standard & Poor's rates AAA."
Of all the state municipalities with the AAA rating from S & P, , Greenwich is the richest. The next-highest AAA-rated town in Connecticut, Ridgefield, has a per-capita effective buying income of $41,839, and a real estate value, per capita, of $145,000.
Bridgeport is rated BBB-plus, Hartford AA-minus, New Haven BBB-plus, and White Plains, N.Y., AA-plus.
"It's fairly unusual for a full-service town the size of Greenwich to not have to issue bonds regularly," Mr. Young said. "Not everyone has that luxury."
A closer look at the town's finances explains why it does so well. The median house price there is $1 million.
The average selling price this year is $1.7 million. And the average tax bill, more or less, is about $13,000, Mr. Gomeau said.
The town keeps its tax increases much lower than its budget increases by relying on millions of dollars of added revenue each year when property owners make major improvements, adding to their assessments, Mr. Gomeau said. This year's budget rose 8 percent, taxes went up 2.5 percent, and the town took in about $200 million in added assessments due to major property renovations.
David Andersen, a managing director at Merrill Lynch who runs the municipal underwriting desk in New York, said the Greenwich bonds sold in one day.
"There's more demand for Connecticut paper than there is supply right now," he said, "which is why a name like this is going to get a strong fit."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Part of the Pomerance property in Cos Cob that Greenwich has purchased for $22 million. The town plans to make the site a park. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (57%); MER (NYSE) (57%); 8675 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENWICH (CONN); COS COB (CONN); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: WOODSIDE, CHRISTINE PARRY YOUNG (58%); EDWARD GOMEAU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



812 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 14; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: WINES UNDER $20;
Recognizing Alsace

BYLINE: By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
As speculation about an economic slowdown in 2001 mounts and thrifty buying strategies become important, Europe's most undervalued region of affordable premium wines springs to mind: Alsace.
Except for a sales spurt in 1986 -- when the centenary of the Statue of Liberty brought attention to its designer, Frederic A. Bartholdi, and briefly sent his native Alsace to center stage -- its splendid whites have been largely a public secret here. 
 Throughout the rest of France, until recently almost all wines had been defined solely by place names, but in Alsace grapes confer identity: riesling, gewurztraminer, pinot blanc, tokay pinot gris and muscat.
Although American wines are also classified primarily by fruit, Americans have never bought into Alsace's system. This is likely because its nationality is confusing to most wine drinkers: this northeastern battleground region near the Rhine has been alternately held by Germany and France.
Although expensive dessert wines known as vendange tardive (late harvest) and selection de grains nobles (selection of noble grapes, equal to German beerenauslese) can be glorious, the dry, spicy whites are daily workhorses with the region's delicious Germanic dishes. Lightly chilled, they are equally at home at America's table.
Reared in steel tanks or old neutral wood that barely influences them, the wines are all about fruit, aroma and crispness. In the investment-grade tier beyond $20, they express "le terroir": vineyards' individual characteristics.
Allowing for vintage variations and routine ups and downs of winegrowing, steadily dependable producers whose bottles neighborhood shops can obtain usually within two days are Hugel, Leon Beyer, Kuntz-Bas, Julien Meyer, Josmeyer, Trimbach, Marcel Deiss, Dopff et Irion, Schlumberger, Pierre Sparr and Lucien Albrecht. For splurges, seek out Zind-Humbrecht and Marc Kreydenweiss. HOWARD G. GOLDBERG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of France highlighting Alsace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ALSACE, FRANCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALSACE (FRANCE); FRANCE; FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ALSACE, FRANCE (94%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES WINE (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, HOWARD G

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



813 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: A Possible Future for Aging Houses of Tomorrow

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF 

 BODY:
THEY are one of the more unexpected sights in Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, which occupies 15,000 acres along Lake Michigan between Gary and Michigan City: five gleaming visions of the future circa 1933 -- including one indisputable architectural masterpiece -- now somewhat the worse for wear after decades of neglect.
The five are prototype houses built for the Home and Industrial Arts exhibit at the 1933 Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago. The story of how they came to occupy a sand dune in Indiana is a testament both to the power of the exposition's modernist vision and to one man's determination to transform a marsh 60 miles from downtown Chicago into a thriving suburb. And it is a story that is getting a new chapter, as the park, in partnership with the Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, arranges for tenants who agree to restore the homes in return for the right to occupy them on long low-cost leases. 
 The Century of Progress Exposition ran for two years on Chicago's lakefront at the height of the Depression and was viewed by more than 39 million people. The spotlight was on science and technology; the exhibits included a stainless-steel Art Deco streamliner called the Zephyr and Buckminster Fuller's submarine-like Dymaxion car.
Among the highlights were 14 state-of-the- art model homes and exhibits on modern appliances, furniture and housewares.
"The purpose was to show the potential of what design and technology could create for modern living," said Tim Samuelson, curator of architecture at the Chicago Historical Society. "People were meant to look at them and dream about the kind of house they would like to have."
Many of the houses were designed to showcase prefabricated-building techniques or new materials. The Rostone House, for example, featured Rostone siding, a stone aggregate, while the Armco-Ferro House was assembled of porcelain enamel panels held together by steel clips.
Architecturally, most reflected the influence of the Bauhaus School, with clean, modern shapes and proportions and streamlined Art Deco ornamentation.
The standout even then was the House of Tomorrow, a three-story, 12-sided steel-and-glass structure designed by the early modernist George Fred Keck of Chicago. From the outside, the house resembled a glass-walled Bauhaus water tank. Inside, a spiral staircase wound around a central core containing utilities while a series of wedge-shaped rooms were furnished with tubular modern furniture.
A commemorative book issued at the time of the exposition says of the House of Tomorrow: "Every modern convenience is made available at the touch of a finger. Absolute comfort is assured."
Among the amenities were central air conditioning and a kitchen "gas-powered to the nth degree" with a "gas-fueled iceless refrigerator" as well as a "mechanical dishwasher."
The crowning touch, however, was "an airplane hangar, which houses a small sized ship for family use," attached to the back of the house.
Architects today are still impressed. "It's this bizarre multisided object," said Stanley Tigerman, of Tigerman McCurry Architects in Chicago, who began his career working for Keck. "It's not what you expect a house to be."
After the exposition closed in November 1934, six of the houses and a number of other buildings were bought by Robert Bartlett, a Chicago developer who was struggling to attract buyers to his latest project, a town he was developing on the Indiana dunes called Beverly Shores.
The six were the House of Tomorrow, the Rostone House, the Armco-Ferro House, the Florida Tropical House, the Cypress House and the Country Farm House.
Early in 1935, Bartlett had some trucked over but placed most on barges and floated them across Lake Michigan to their present site on dunes overlooking the water.
"He had every intention of selling them," said Judith Collins, a historic architect at Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. "But first he wanted to use them to generate publicity."
It worked. Beverly Shores took off as a popular weekend and summer resort. The houses were eventually sold and all but the Country Farm House, which was torn down some years earlier, remained in private hands until the land they sat on was annexed by Indiana Dunes in the early 1970's. Two of the remaining houses -- the Rostone and the Florida Tropical -- are on the lake side of Lake Front Avenue and steps away from the shore, while the other three are across the street.
In exchange for selling their houses to the park, the owners were given leases for up to 25 years. The expectation at the time was that when the leases were up, the houses would be torn down and the land returned to its natural state.
The rise of the historic preservation movement, and the placing of the houses on the National Register of Historic Places, changed that plan, however.
The leases started running out in the early 1990's, and all but the Armco-Ferro House have been vacant for years. (The Armco-Ferro House's lease expires in 2005.)
"They're in very poor shape," Ms. Collins said. "At one time we thought about restoring them as exhibits, but the money was just never available."
NOW, Indiana Dunes has forged a partnership with the Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, one of the largest state preservation groups in the country, to find private tenants to restore and live in the houses.
"Essentially, we're playing real estate agent," Todd Zeiger, director of Historic Landmarks' northern regional office, said earlier this month. "We're trying to sell a product."
In exchange for agreeing to restore the houses -- a process that Historic Landmarks estimates will cost $350,000 to $600,000 apiece -- tenants are being offered 30-year leases at minimal or no rent, with options to renew. The agency must approve the restoration plans.
"The bottom line is that while parks have an obligation to preserve these structures," said Randall Biallas, chief historical architect at the National Park Service in Washington, "they're sort of at the bottom of the list as far as funding is concerned. So park management is looking at alternatives."
So far, one lease -- for the Florida Tropical House, a bright pink Art Deco gem -- has been signed. Another, for the House of Tomorrow, is pending.
The Florida Tropical House's new tenant is William Beatty, the owner of Beatty Manufacturing, an industrial punching machine company in nearby Hammond, Ind. "It makes no economic sense whatsoever," he said of his decision to rent the house. "I don't expect to get anything out of it except the personal satisfaction of being involved in a unique and worthwhile cause."
Mr. Beatty plans to do much of the restoration work himself, thereby keeping costs down. The house, he said, is in "horrible" shape. "The roof leaked for six years, so there's a lot of water damage," he said. But there are also marvels, including two original 12-by-15-foot murals in the enormous living room and an aluminum staircase with a curving Art Deco balustrade.
The House of Tomorrow's prospective tenant is Susan Schanlaber, a preservationist who owns a number of real estate companies in Aurora, Ill. Ms. Schanlaber has signed a letter of intent, which allows her time to develop a restoration plan and have it approved before signing a lease.
Her preliminary plans call for restoring the original glass facade and remodeling the airplane hangar to add bedrooms and a bathroom.
As for the cost, she said, "I'm opening my checkbook, and I don't quite know where it will stop."
Ms. Schanlaber grew up in a house in Aurora designed by Keck and remembers meeting the architect as a child and hearing him discuss the House of Tomorrow.
"It's a seminal piece of modern architecture," she said. "I think of it as a house where the Jetsons would live. It was well beyond its time and in many respects it still is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The House of Tomorrow, left, and the Florida Tropical House were among six moved from Chicago's Century of Progress Exposition to the Indiana Dunes. (Photographs by Lloyd DeGrane for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of the area surrounding Lake Michigan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (96%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: GARY, IN, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HISTORIC LANDMARKS FOUNDATION OF INDIANA INDIANA DUNES (67%); CHICAGO HISTORICAL SOCIETY (90%); ROSTONE HOUSE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: HISTORIC LANDMARKS FOUNDATION OF INDIANA CHICAGO HISTORICAL SOCIETY (90%); ROSTONE HOUSE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA DUNES NATIONAL LAKESHORE; UNITED STATES (96%); INDIANA, USA (96%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GARY, IN, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RENTING AND LEASING NATIONAL PARKS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); LAKES (78%); HISTORY (76%); HVAC SYSTEMS (71%); 

PERSON: KECK, GEORGE FRED; SHAROFF, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



814 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: SAN FRANCISCO ROCK;
Rebellious by Nature

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In her article "Rock Was Never Meant to Be in the High-Rent District" Nov. 26 , Gina Arnold tips her hand early on by suggesting that today's San Francisco residents "perversely believe that the economic boom has been catastrophic." 
 It is astonishing that Ms. Arnold, a Bay Area popular culture critic, writes of "much-needed office space" and generally sides with the city's dot-com movement in what is truly their war with musicians (or anyone else taking up their space). Her assertion that rock bands whose rehearsal space is being threatened should politely step aside disregards the inherent rebelliousness of the music. And her belief that all that rehearsal space is unnecessary, that the counterculture is alive and well in teenagers' homes, is convenient to the dot-com's mission but utterly ludicrous to anyone who knows anything about today's rock music.
 
ERIC W. HANSON
Cambridge, Mass.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POP & ROCK (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (86%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); 

PERSON: GINA ARNOLD (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



815 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WILLIAMSBURG;
And Off to Your Left, A Beautiful Sewage Plant

BYLINE: By MELISSA P. McNAMARA 

 BODY:
DILAPIDATED factories, sewage plants and garbage dumps are not your usual tourist attractions. But in Williamsburg, where even the political is expressed artistically, they are highlights of an unusual tour.
The project is the brainchild of Rene Gabri, Heimo Lattner and Erin McGonigle, three Williamsburg artists who wanted to show a face of their neighborhood that differs from its latest image as one of the city's hottest places to live. The result is Dencity, a nighttime musical bus tour that focuses on the neighborhood's industrial sites. 
 "It's the urban equivalent of an explorer's notebook," Ms. McGonigle said, "a kind of 'Huck Finn' on land."
A dozen trips were offered on weekend evenings in November and December, in which more than 700 people (at $15 a person) were trundled through the neighborhood. The events proved so popular that advance reservations were required and an additional bus was added for the final outing of the year. (The tours are to resume in March.)
To provide the soundtrack for the tour, the artists spent nearly three months recording sounds from Williamsburg's streets -- the rumble of the subway, the clatter from cars and factories. Then they mapped a route synchronized with the music.
The hourlong trip begins and ends in front of Parker's Box Gallery on Grand Street, in the heart of the neighborhood. As the chartered bus winds through narrow, darkened streets, the only sound is the constant clattering of high-pitched electronic music, which mixes with the street sounds. There is no narrator.
The stark images of recycling plants and waste management sites seen through the bus windows seem more suitable for the walls of a museum of photography than for a roster of tourist hot spots. "It's kind of an absurd anti-tour," Ms. McGonigle acknowledged. "We're showing places you wouldn't see on a tour."
As the bus meanders around eerily desolate streets and junkyards, the soundtrack reinforces the atmosphere, alternating from the sound of jackhammering to the rush of running water. Near the end of the drive, as the bus passes a sprawling cemetery juxtaposed against a bright Manhattan skyline, the recorded sound of rattling subway cars drifts up the aisle.
Mr. Gabri navigates from the front of the bus while Ms. McGonigle and Mr. Lattner synchronize the music on a laptop computer from the back of the bus. On each tour, the bus travels along different streets and the sound is mixed in different ways.
The "tourists" include a mix of artists, Williamsburg residents, visitors from Manhattan and even some children. Some, like Patrick Barnhart, a policy analyst whose specialty is recycling, attend for professional reasons.
"It's so interesting," said Carolyn Christov-Bakergiev, a curator at the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens, "because it blends fact and fiction in a cinematic way." MELISSA P. McNAMARA
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Erin McGonigle and Heimo Lattner, the performers on the bus. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WILLIAMSBURG (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TOURISM (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (70%); TRENDS (64%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MCNAMARA, MELISSA P ERIN MCGONIGLE (87%); HEIMO LATTNER (58%); RENE GABRI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



816 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Bush's Task: Deciding How He'll Spend A Big Surplus

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHEN Bill Clinton moved into the White House eight years ago, the economy was starting to gather strength but the federal budget deficit was getting bigger, leaving the new president handcuffed when it came to fiscal policy.
His successor will inherit a very different situation. George W. Bush will become president at a time when the economy is weakening but the budget surplus seems to swell with each new calculation and deficits are but a dim memory. 
 As a result, Mr. Bush will have more flexibility when it comes to setting a budget than any president in a generation -- maybe ever. Mr. Clinton had to spend the first year of his first term pushing tax increases and spending cuts through a reluctant, if not hostile, Congress to tame the deficit. Mr. Bush will have before him on Jan. 20 a long menu of appetizing choices made possible by the flood of extra revenue into Washington.
He can cut taxes. He can pay off the national debt. He can shore up Social Security and Medicare. He can provide health insurance to people who cannot afford it, help the elderly afford the cost of prescription drugs and make sure that all children get a decent education.
If the surplus projections are to be believed, there might even be enough money on the table to do all of the above.
Still, as he sets out his priorities, Mr. Bush and his administration will have to make some tradeoffs.
First, Mr. Bush will have to decide whether fiscal policy should be thought of as an instrument by which to try to manage the ups and downs of the economy. Through most of Mr. Clinton's two terms, the White House and Congress have had the luxury of a strong economy that did not need any kick from tax cuts or spending increases.
Fiscal policy became centered on the long run: paying down the national debt, freeing capital for investment in the private sector and strengthening the government's balance sheet to deal with the costs of an aging population. Management of the business cycle was turned over almost exclusively to the Federal Reserve, operating through monetary policy.
Now, with the economy slowing, there's a case to be made for a more activist fiscal policy, and Mr. Bush and his advisers have not been shy about making it.
But it is one thing to use a weakening economy to help sell a tax cut to Congress and the public. It would be another for Mr. Bush to rewrite his $1.6 trillion, 10-year tax proposal to put more money into people's pockets in the next year or two for the express purpose of reviving consumer spending and confidence.
Mr. Bush will also have to decide how serious to be about paying off the national debt, or at least the $3.4 trillion of it held by the public in the form of Treasury securities (on top of the public debt, the government owes Social Security more than $2 trillion).
OVER the next 10 to 12 years, the government could eliminate the public debt if it applies to that goal the entire portion of the surplus currently generated by Social Security. During the campaign, however, Mr. Bush suggested that he would use a chunk of the Social Security surplus, probably around $1 trillion, to help pay for his plan to add private investment accounts to the Social Security system.
If he sticks to that plan, he risks a backlash even within his own party, which has watched in fascination for the past several years as debt reduction has become a favorite of voters across the political spectrum.
Watch closely for any hints that Mr. Bush might consider paying for his Social Security plan out of the non-Social Security surplus, the same pool of money he is counting on for his tax cut. If he does, it will be proof that debt reduction strikes a more resonant chord with voters in this new age of surplus than does a promise of tax cuts.
Lastly, Mr. Bush will have to decide whether to push hard for his plan to reduce all income tax rates in a way that would give most of the tax cut in dollar terms to people at the high end of the income scale.
Reducing income tax rates across the board has long been the goal of supply-side purists, who say it is the best way to increase the economy's long-term growth potential. But it makes even some of Mr. Bush's Republican allies in Congress queasy because most of its benefits would go to people in the upper end of the income scale.
Few Republicans can relish the prospect of fighting for control of Congress in the 2002 midterm election being cast by Democrats as the party of the wealthy especially if the economic slowdown turns into something worse.
It will be a tough call for the new president as he sets course on a sea of plenty.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart shows Federal surpluses and deficits during the Clinton administration since Nov. 1993.
(Source: Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TAX LAW (88%); MEDICARE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); AGING TRENDS (72%); AGING (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



817 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: THE HILLS WERE ALIVE WITH THE SOUND OF MOOLAH AND TRENDS THAT WENT 'POOF' ALL DURING THE YEAR

BYLINE: By BOB MORRIS

 BODY:
IT was a very good year until it wasn't, a year of excess and impulse buying, a year when Jimmy Choo came out with a pair of $1 million diamond-encrusted sandals and every social climber needed to own python pants and an Internet business. It was a year of pink fur and Web site pink slips, downloading, downsizing and everything Brazil.
In with caipirinhas! 
 Out with pashminas!
It was, in fact, all a little cuckoo.
What other word so well describes the spectacle of all those dot-com darlings looming large before being shrunk back down to size like Alice in Wonderland? Swoon.com swooned. UrbanFetch.com rolled over and played dead. What other word but cuckoo describes the floor show of Jennifer Lopez in court with Puffy Combs after a nightclub shooting, and Darva Conger in Playboy after marrying a millionaire she had never met?
It was a year of adults on scooters, Britney Spears, a thong song and a Cow Parade. A year of social cannibalism both on reality television and in Manhattan as waged by a pair of adolescent sisters named Hilton. It was a year that started with Louis Vuitton logos covering clothes like measles and ended with a rash of fishnet stockings. We had Hillary Clinton as a New Yorker, the mayor's wife in "The Vagina Monologues," Wall Street lawyers in khakis, and Armani suits displayed in an art museum. Cuckoo.
What else? Extreme yoga, toe rings, hands-free cell-phone callers talking into thin air, Monica Lewinsky as an "It" Girl, Madonna's brand new accent and Linda Tripp's brand new face.
The trends came fast and went out faster, which for some meant a new favorite thing to wear, imbibe or download almost every week. For more dismissive observers, the velocity of the in-and-out cycle brought the pleasure of saying good riddance even more often than usual.
Still, with "The Sound of Music" revived in theaters as a sing-along attraction, even as the economic bubble bursts like so many fashion trends, it seems that an extravagantly cheerful farewell to 2000, not a mournful one, is in order. Here, then, is a year-end toast to a few of our favorite things -- and a so long, farewell to a few that weren't. BOB MORRIS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Marisa Acocella)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); LAWYERS (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); 

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (53%); BRITNEY SPEARS (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



818 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Cuts in Health Benefits Squeeze Retirees' Nest Eggs

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
TO help pay medical bills left behind when her husband, Gordon, died of skin cancer complications last summer, June Yeager, 82, of Oakdale, Minn., was forced to use a third of his $10,000 in life insurance. It was not that the Yeagers lacked health insurance; they were eligible for Medicare and received benefits from Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, from which Mr. Yeager retired in 1975 as a shipping clerk.
But 3M decided in 1994 to alter its benefits package for retirees: Retired employees said it increased the annual out-of-pocket deductions for retired blue-collar union members, for example, to $1,500 from $140, and cut back on payments for doctor bills not covered under Medicare. 
 The Minneapolis company was hardly alone in instituting such changes. Most employers, in fact, have cut or dropped coverage for retirees in the last six or seven years as health care costs have soared. (Health care premiums will increase between 10 and 30 percent in 2001, according to the major insurers.) And a growing number of elderly Americans like Mrs. Yeager have been forced to dip into savings to pay for hospital deductibles or prescription drugs, which are not covered under Medicare.
Fewer than one in four employers now provide medical coverage of any kind for Medicare-eligible retirees; 40 percent provided retiree coverage in 1994, according to a recent national survey of companies with 500 or more employees by William M. Mercer, a benefits consulting company. About 31 percent of employers still cover retirees under age 65, who are not yet eligible for Medicare, but that, too, is down -- from 43 percent in 1994 and 46 percent in 1993, Mercer said.
The largest companies, those with at least 5,000 employees, are more likely to cover retirees, said Frank McArdle, research director in Washington for the benefits consulting firm Hewitt Associates. However, even many of them, like 3M, have limited the benefits by raising deductibles, or placing caps or ceilings on how much they will pay, and shifting other costs to the former employees, he said. Employers are eager to try a defined contribution approach, much like the 401(k) retirement plan, that would pass on the responsibilities of meeting rising health care costs to the employees.
Many retirees had expected their comprehensive health coverage to last forever. Mrs. Yeager, whose husband was employed at 3M for 34 years, and a group of other 3M retirees and their spouses contend that the company had promised lifetime benefits. But they say that, without being consulted, their benefits were reduced in 1994 in bargaining with the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers union. The group is seeking class action status for a lawsuit against 3M in Federal District Court in Minneapolis.
"We were just about breaking even under the old contract," said Edward Hughes, 75, of Maplewood, Minn., a factory worker at 3M for 46 years who was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease after he retired in 1991. "Under this one, my wife and I are having to go into our savings."
Helen Braumberger, 79, a 3M factory worker for 37 years, says she now struggles to pay for cancer treatments. "I had to give up my car," a seven-year-old Buick, to save on expenses, she said.
Katherine Hegmeyer, a 3M spokeswoman, said the company did not discuss pending lawsuits.
Retirees have been hit hardest by cutbacks in prescription drug coverage. Bruce Vladeck, who used to head the federal agency that runs the Medicare and Medicaid programs, calls drug coverage for retirees "a disappearing phenomenon." As employers retreat, "the pressure to expand Medicare benefits to include prescription drugs obviously increases," said Mr. Vladeck, who now directs a Medicare policy center at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
More than a decade after Congress repealed a Medicare expansion that had included prescription drug coverage, bipartisan debate over bringing some form of drug coverage back continues. President-elect George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore supported the idea during the election campaign. Mr. Bush said he favored a drug benefit as part of an overhaul of Medicare.
"Corporate America is also interested in a Medicare drug benefit," said John Rother, director of legislative and public policy at AARP, the retiree advocacy association. "Prescription drugs are a growing burden for any company with a unionized labor force" strong enough to insist on keeping retiree drug benefits, he said.
The retreat from retiree health benefits has accelerated since 1993, when a new accounting rule forced companies to reduce their reported income by an amount equal to the present value of future promises for retiree health care. Later, after the promises were sharply reduced, many companies added back the projected savings to increase their annual net income.
AMONG the first to abolish retiree health benefits was J. P. Morgan, the investment banking company. Starting in 1989, Morgan reduced these benefits for existing employees and eliminated them for new hires. To ease the transition, Morgan employees could take cash from a portion of the company's retirement life insurance benefit, which was also later abolished.
Last year, Boeing joined the list. It eliminated company-subsidized retiree medical coverage for employees hired after Jan. 1, 1999. Retiree health benefits continue for those hired earlier, except for former employees of McDonnell Douglas; they were buying their own health insurance before McDonnell and Boeing merged.
Changes are also planned at General Motors. The automaker provides generous health benefits for nearly 700,000 retirees and their dependents, at a cost approaching $2 billion in 2000. But coverage for retired salaried workers not protected by union contracts will drop over the next few years. G.M. has said it will no longer take responsibility for retiree health coverage for tens of thousands of salaried workers hired after January 1993. To cushion the blow, G.M. is building a fund for these workers to use when they retire, setting aside 1 percent of their salaries each year.
G.M. and other large automakers have been working with the unions to try to slow health care costs by promoting the use of generic drugs and disease management programs to assure appropriate use of pharmaceuticals, said Preston Crabill, G.M.'s director of health care plans. The change in health coverage at G.M. resembles the switch from pensions to 401(k) plans that swept corporate America in the 1980's and 1990's. In both cases, the employee assumes the risk of accumulating enough to cover expenses that may grow with inflation.
BENEFITS consultants say many companies are moving toward providing employees with a predetermined amount of money, called a defined contribution, for health care, instead of guaranteeing defined benefits with open-ended costs.
In a tight labor market, employers have been reluctant to change to defined contributions for health care for active workers, who could easily find jobs with better benefits elsewhere. But health care experts say the changes that have been felt by many retirees are in the cards for active workers, too, when the economy slows and employers regain the upper hand. A 1999 survey of employers for the Kaiser Family Foundation said more than half would seriously consider a defined contribution approach.
"Because of the economy and the labor market, you can't squeeze worker health benefits," said Deborah Steelman, a Washington lawyer who represents insurance companies and drug makers, and a member of a bipartisan commission on Medicare reform. "It's logical for employers to say, 'These people don't work for me any more.' It's a place to cut."
But Patricia Wilson, an independent health benefits consultant in Rosemont, Pa., pointed out that promises of retiree medical benefits had been essential during the last decade of corporate downsizings when many companies reduced their payrolls.
After all, she said, "adjustments in the work force could not have been accomplished without the existence of retiree medical benefits" to attract volunteers to take early retirement.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dorothy and Edward Hughes have had to use their savings to pay for health costs since 3M cut health benefits for retirees like him. (Steve Wewerka for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Declining Benefits"
Chart shows performance of employers offering retiree medical coverage since 1994.
(Source: William M. Mercer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (87%); MMM (NYSE) (87%); MMM (FRA) (87%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (87%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (87%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (87%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (87%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (95%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: 3M CO (87%); AON HEWITT (84%); MEDICARE (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (95%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); MEDICARE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); US 401K PLANS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); AGING (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); SKIN CANCER (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LITIGATION (62%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%); 

PERSON: JUNE YEAGER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



819 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Predicting An Upswing In Emerging Markets

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
THEY may not know it, but investors in emerging markets have a lot in common with Brooklyn Dodger fans. Both groups keep waiting for next year.
In the aggregate, emerging market stock price indexes were down about 30 percent in 2000, the fifth decline in the last seven years. 
 That is the bad news. The good is that asset prices are cheap. There is a chance, of course, that the stocks could become cheaper. Yet it is worth remembering that the Dodgers eventually won the World Series.
Mark Madden, lead portfolio manager of the Emerging Markets team at Pioneer Investment Management, took some time last week to talk about why he was optimistic the suffering was about to end. Following are excerpts from the conversation:
 
Q. Most emerging market economies did pretty well over the last 12 months. But the stock markets blew up. Why?
 
A. When markets are being hurt in general, emerging markets are hurt worse.
The other thing that hit emerging markets is that the whole technology-Nasdaq problem swept in. The revaluation of technology stocks lagged behind those in the industrialized country markets until 1999. That year stocks like Taiwan Semiconductor, United Microelectronics, Samsung Electronics in South Korea and Chartered Semiconductor in Singapore caught up.
But when the Nasdaq started to slide in March, a lot of technology stocks in emerging markets fell, too. The difference between the two is that price-earnings multiples in emerging market technology stocks never were as crazy as in the United States. Today, a lot of these stocks are very attractively priced, with price-earnings multiples in the high single digits to low double digits.
 
Q. Led by the United States, industrial economies are slowing down. How can that be good news for emerging markets?
 
A. The interesting thing about emerging markets is that when developed countries are strong, the pressure on them to keep costs down is less severe than when those economies roll over.
As the United States slows down, for example, the pressure to cut costs and reduce unit costs is high. That means most companies operating here are forced to do more outsourcing, and that means to companies in the emerging markets.
This is happening right now. American auto companies have been furloughing workers in the United States and Canada, but not in Mexico. Those Mexican plants are every bit as modern as American and Canadian plants, and the productivity of the Mexican worker is pretty high. Net-net, the Mexican plants are pretty low-cost plants.
What this all means is that, in terms of operating performance, emerging market companies will do much better over the next couple of years than their counterparts in the industrialized world.
That said, because of the slowdown in the big countries we are more geared to domestic plays in emerging markets as opposed to investing in companies that rely on exports. That is a critical part of our strategy over the next 18 to 24 months.
 
Q. So, on a relative basis emerging market economies are going to look good compared with countries like the United States?
 
A. In the early 1990's Europe, Japan and the United States were sort of muddling along, and it was apparent that growth in emerging markets was two times to three times greater. From 1990 to 1993, emerging market indexes all posted gains. In 1993, the markets were up about 72 percent.
We are in that mode again. The United States has been growing at a 4 percent to 5 percent rate over the last few years. As its growth rate moves back toward zero, China's 8 percent growth rate is going to look pretty attractive. Portfolio managers that invest in stock markets will shift assets into those faster-growing markets.
 
Q. Which countries and companies are you particularly optimistic about?
 
A. In Latin America, we are overweight in Brazil, Mexico and Argentina.
In Asia, we are overweight in South Korea. Korea is an export-oriented economy, but we own mostly domestic plays. One of the few exporters we own is Pohang Iron and Steel, the second-biggest steel company in the world. We are overweight in India and like some of the pharmaceutical companies there, like Dr. Reddy's and Ranbaxy.
 
Q. Give the argument for investing in an emerging market fund rather than in American depository receipts of companies.
 
A. Most investors don't spend enough time analyzing individual countries. I have a team of seven people doing it. Also, if you were to buy only A.D.R.'s, you would be limited to investing in big blue-chip stocks.
Also, there are lots of times when A.D.R. stocks trade at a premium to the local stock price. For instance, Infosys, an Indian software services company, has an A.D.R. that right now is trading at a 60 percent premium over the local price. We monitor things like that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Madden

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: SMSN (LSE) (55%); 005930 (KSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT U S (57%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LTD (57%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SGR SPA (57%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMERGING MARKETS (95%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); OUTSOURCING (75%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



820 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for JOSEPH A. CALIFANO Jr.;
Lessons From the Battle To End Workplace Violence

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
TWO years ago, deeply embarrassed and concerned about the catch phrase "going postal" and all it implied, the United States Postal Service commissioned a major study of on-the-job violence. The panelists surveyed about 15,000 postal and private-sector employees and closely reviewed 29 workplace rampage killings, seeking trends and possible remedies.
The findings, released last August, dispelled the popular notion that mail-handlers are more mayhem-prone than any other workers; in fact, the risk of being murdered on duty in a postal facility is much lower than the national average. 
 Perhaps of greater interest today, in light of last week's rampage killings in Wakefield, Mass., are the commission's findings on workplace violence in general -- last year, one in 20 workers was physically assaulted on the job -- and what various employers might do about it. Joseph A. Califano Jr., the secretary of health, education and welfare under President Jimmy Carter, and now president of the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University, headed the commission.
 MARY WILLIAMS WALSH
 
Q. America's economic boom has made workers more prosperous, but it has also brought them more stress. Has that fostered greater hostility in the workplace?
 
A. There's no question that as people become more stressed, and feel that they are under more pressure, there is a greater likelihood of violence. The pressure can come in a variety of forms. You have husbands and wives both working and taking care of the kids at night. You have the love-hate relationship of the American worker with overtime.
 
Q. Is it possible to identify employees with violent tendencies? Should employers alert their staffs about high-risk co-workers?
 
A. Overwhelmingly, individuals who commit acts of violence against co-workers have a prior history of violence. Or they have mental health problems, or substance abuse problems or prior criminal convictions.
When a company learns that it has hired someone with something like that in their background, it's an open question whether the company has an obligation to let its workers know. This is a question that's going to be resolved in the courts.

Q. What else should employers be doing?
 
A. They can screen applicants more carefully than they now do. They can help make employees feel free to report co-workers who are displaying evidence of a serious mental disturbance. And they should make sure that they have a process in place that employees understand, and perceive to be fair, for resolving disputes.
Employers can set up "zero violence" policies, in which the people at the top, and all supervisors, try to avoid the kind of violence, if you will, that's less than physical violence. One in six workers was sexually harassed at their job in the past year. About a third were verbally abused.
 
Q. Does the private sector have any role to play in controlling guns?
 
A. Employers could certainly ask employees whether they own guns or not, but I'm not sure it would be very effective. The kind of individual who's going to use a gun to kill fellow employees isn't likely to admit that they have guns.
The Wakefield incident does show that this is a problem that can't be handled state by state. Massachusetts may have very strict gun laws, but a neighboring state may not, and nobody checks people driving into Massachusetts to see whether they're bringing in a gun. So there has to be some national standard.
 
Q. Your commission recommended "local crisis teams" to guard against workplace violence. How do these work?
 
A. Within the Postal Service, these teams are usually made up of a few volunteer employees and a supervisor. Their goal is to keep a finger on the pulse of the workplace, to determine whether it's a workplace where violence is likely. We found that they varied widely in quality, but we thought that if they were better trained, they could certainly be a very effective tool for the Postal Service, or any organization.
As with so much in the business world, the leadership was very important. Where the subregional leaders made it clear that they wanted a workplace that was safe, local teams worked very well.
We've seen an enormous tragedy in Wakefield, but there's violence happening in the American workplace every day that never gets that kind of attention.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Califano

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (84%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (84%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMPLOYMENT (93%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (92%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (77%); MURDER (76%); TRENDS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POSTAL SERVICE (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); OVERTIME (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); MENTAL HEALTH (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



821 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2809 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Hot Commodity? Not Coffee or Soccer

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: SAO JOSE DOS CAMPOS, Brazil

 BODY:
WHEN Thabo Mbeki, president of South Africa, visited Brazil early in December, his hosts made a point of bringing him here in hopes he would be dazzled, as so many other guests have been, by this country's growing technological and military capabilities. Brazil's space program was born in this trim and tranquil city of 500,000 people, as were companies specializing in the production of armored vehicles, rockets and munitions.
But it was the headquarters of Embraer, which is on the verge of displacing Canada's Bombardier as the world's third-largest manufacturer of commercial aircraft, that drew the most attention from Mr. Mbeki -- and where the big deal was made. Even as the company's 10,161 employees were laboring to meet an order backlog totaling nearly 900 aircraft, Mr. Mbeki's delegation was adding to their agreeable burden with a $900 million contract to buy 70 jets for airlines in his country. 
 Just six years ago, Embraer, founded by the Brazilian Air Force in 1969 as a manufacturer of simple military training and patrol planes, was swimming in debt and verging on bankruptcy. Its military managers were frantically shopping for a buyer.
Now completely in private hands, its stock traded on exchanges in Sao Paulo, 50 miles southwest of here, and in New York, the company is ending this year with the strongest performance in its history.
With more than $23 billion in orders on the books, Embraer is expected to report results far higher than last year's record earnings of $230 million on sales of $1.93 billion. The company has also earned a reputation as a scrappy, audacious and canny survivor, so much so that it is now aiming to challenge the bottom end of the full-size jet market that Boeing and Airbus dominate.
The reason for the turnabout lies in what Embraer's president, Mauricio Botelho, calls "The Redemption Project." By correctly anticipating the boom in regional aviation in recent years and then building a line of economical 37-, 44-, 50- and 70-seat jets to meet that growing demand, Embraer has not only insulated itself from the uncertainties of the Brazilian economy, but also guaranteed a market for its main product for years.
"Embraer came out with the ERJ-145 50-seater at exactly the right time," said Robert Booth, chairman of Aviation Management Services, a consulting firm based in Miami. "The United States has begun to replace almost all of its turboprop aircraft with regional jets, Europe is not far behind, and the potential within Latin America and Asia hasn't even been scratched."
As a result, Embraer is now Brazil's leading exporter, with nearly 95 percent of its sales to overseas customers -- 3.5 percent of Brazil's total exports. More than any company, Embraer has also come to symbolize Brazil's transformation over the last quarter-century from an exporter of raw materials like coffee and oranges into a fledgling industrial power with an expanding mastery of advanced technology.
"Maybe there are some parts of the world where Brazil's image is still that of soccer and beaches, and associating Brazil with aviation is considered something peculiar," said Mr. Botelho (pronounced Bow-TELL-you), who has been Embraer's president and chief executive since shortly after the company was privatized in December 1994. "But within the industry, I think we are now regarded as a strong competitor with a strong product line."
In fact, Embraer's two largest customers are airlines in the United States -- American Eagle and Continental Express. Those carriers already fly more than 175 Embraer jets on regional routes like New York to Cleveland, Boston to Toronto and Chicago to Indianapolis. They are awaiting delivery on 325 more planes and have options to buy an additional 150.
"We had some issues with making a commitment to a company that was not really well-proven," said Thomas Bacon, senior vice president for marketing and planning at American Eagle. But Mr. Bacon said Embraer officials won over the airline with their package.
"We're very pleased," he said, "especially with the flexibility they have shown in service support. And our customers just rave about it in terms of the comfort built into the plane and the reduced noise factor and turbulence."
Mr. Bacon added that "we had no way of anticipating the kind of customer service support that we have had from Embraer." The company has "bent over backwards to support us," he said. For example, Embraer made customized improvements on planes already in production, assigned trainers to work side-by-side with American Eagle mechanics and agreed to retrofit improvements on other planes.
Much of Embraer's success is attributed to Mr. Botelho, a 58-year-old mechanical engineer. Although he had no aviation experience, he was brought in to run Embraer in 1995 because he had a reputation as much more of a long-term strategic thinker than did the average Brazilian executive.
"Methodical and thoughtful" was the way the daily Jornal do Brasil described Mr. Botelho. It credited him with "implanting policies that value the human element" and "reorganizing the company along the lines of a partnership among shareholders, executives and employees."
EMBOLDENED by its success with regional jets, Embraer is now preparing to move into the bottom end of the full-size market. In a move that will for the first time place it in direct competition with Boeing and Airbus, the two giants of the industry, Embraer is developing 98- and 108-seat versions of its regional jet. Airlines in France and Switzerland have ordered the larger jets, which are expected to contend with Boeing's new 106-seat 717 model.
"Embraer has an advantage in that they are starting from below and moving up, whereas Boeing and Airbus are coming from up top and moving down, with a fuselage likely to be bigger and heavier than what Embraer will develop," said Roberto Bernardes, author of a new corporate history titled "Embraer: The Link Between the Market and the State" and a senior industrial policy analyst for the Sao Paulo state government. "Embraer's plane is going to be lighter and easier to operate, and customers like that."
Mr. Booth predicted that as more countries deregulate air transportation and allow more competition among airlines, the demand for aircraft will grow -- to Embraer's benefit. Even without deregulation, he said, the growth potential for Embraer is particularly strong, especially in Latin America where the company is well known.
"While I don't know if Boeing and Airbus are losing any sleep over Embraer, they probably should as the Brazilians get into 100-plus seat jets," he said.
In what Mr. Botelho called "a logical step in the evolution of this company," Embraer has also begun a push into the corporate jet market, where it has long been overshadowed by North American companies.
AS with its commercial regional jets, which on average are about 15 percent cheaper than those of competitors, Embraer is stressing the price advantages of its entry in the field, a plane called the Legacy. Priced at $19.5 million, the Legacy offers what Embraer calls "a jet level of flight at turboprop cost." More than 50 planes have already been sold.
But since Embraer began as a manufacturer of military aircraft, it is also trying to return to its origins and revitalize its military wing. The company is not only investing $150 million in a new plant 200 miles northwest of here where high-performance military aircraft can be tested, but also designing new planes to succeed the Tucano trainer and Xavante fighter aircraft that it sold to price-conscious third world nations in the 1970's and 1980's.
Meeting with stock analysts in early December, company officials said that even with its stunning success selling small jetliners, Embraer sees military production as its fastest-growing segment the next five years. They estimated it could rise to approximately 20 percent of total sales by 2005, as compared with 7.6 percent this year.
Belgium, Greece, Mexico and Venezuela have ordered military aircraft from Embraer, and NATO forces flew the company's AMX fighter plane in Kosovo last year with good results. That has spurred interest from countries throughout the third world that are looking for an inexpensive aircraft.
Many of Embraer's rivals "are building battleships, by which I mean systems that are very capable of being dominant but which cost a lot of money," said Byron Callan, an analyst who follows Embraer from New York for Merrill Lynch. "But that is not necessarily what a lot of parts of the world need. The threat most countries now face is not squadrons of advanced airplanes, but border security, drug trafficking and guerrilla groups, And for that, an aircraft of the sort Embraer makes may be just fine."
With the goal of strengthening itself in the military market, Embraer last year obtained Brazilian government approval to sell a 20 percent stake in the company to a consortium of four French companies: Dassault Aviation, Aerospatiale Matra, Thales (formerly known as Thompson-CSF) and Snecma. The move aroused controversy here, drawing criticism so harsh from the nationalist wing of the Brazilian military that the head of the air force resigned.
But teaming up with the French was also viewed as a smart move. It "implies the transfer of technology and also the development of new products in the aerospace segment," said Jose Carlos Miranda, a professor of economics at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro and an expert on the Brazilian export sector. On its own, Embraer does not have the capacity to develop a supersonic fighter plane like the Mirage 2000/5 produced by the French, Mr. Botelho acknowledged.
With the alliance, Embraer is now in a good position to supply military aircraft to third world countries that will soon have to replace their aging F-5, MIG-21 or Mirage 3 fleets. But the most glittering prize of all may be the Brazilian Air Force's own eight-year modernization plan: Announced six months ago, it is a $3.5 billion package that envisions the purchase or refurbishment of more than 100 aircraft, including new fighter and transport planes.
"We are certainly going to compete, with strength and determination, to be one of the winners in the bidding that the Brazilian government is going to hold to replace its fleet of supersonic fighter planes," Mr. Botelho said. "It would be foolish to develop that sort of plane without a contract, but if we win we will be in a position through our alliance with Dassault to furnish the Mirage 2000/ 5."
Embraer's aggressiveness, however, has led to tensions with Bombardier, the Montreal-based plane maker that Embraer has nearly overtaken as the No. 3 aircraft producer. Since 1996, the two companies have been locked in a bitter dispute about financing practices that has gone all the way to the World Trade Organization. In early December, the W.T.O. ordered Brazil to pay $1.4 billion in penalties to Canada, through lower tariffs for Canadian goods or compensatory damages. Canada and Bombardier have long argued that Embraer has provided loans to customers at below-market interest rates through credit supplied by the Brazilian government. Under W.T.O. rules, the Canadians say, that constitutes an illegal subsidy that gives Embraer an unfair advantage.
Embraer and many independent industry analysts, however, contend that Bombardier engages in similar practices. Mr. Botelho described the W.T.O. ruling as an "absolutely unjust" application of a double standard, "one for developing countries and another for advanced countries." He also accused Bombardier of trying to crush competition.
Yvan Allaire, executive vice president of Bombardier, and chairman of the board of Bombardier Capital, dismissed such claims as nonsense.
BRAZILIAN taxpayers, he said in a telephone interview from Montreal, "have been transferring their money to American and European airlines" with "subsidies that are absolutely unique and unparalleled in the history of commercial aviation."
Embraer itself has been little affected by the W.T.O. ruling: As Mr. Botelho points out, "we continue to rack up sales at a record rate" even after the Brazilian government modified its credit assistance last year. Instead, the damages that the W.T.O. has awarded to Canada are to be paid by Brazil in a fashion to be determined by the governments of the two countries, and are more likely to affect products like sugar, tobacco, steel and textiles.
"It's not Embraer's problem anymore," said Jose Antonio Paiva, an analyst at the Rio de Janeiro investment consulting firm of Lopes Filho & Associados. "The blow is being absorbed by the Brazilian government, which wants to protect its No. 1 exporter and has promised it will honor all existing contracts as signed."
Mr. Botelho said he was confident that even with the W.T.O. ruling, Embraer's position in the regional jet market would grow because "our plane costs $2 million less than our competitor's and is two tons lighter."
Bombardier executives acknowledge that Embraer has cost and weight advantages that translate into lower operating costs, and they express a certain grudging respect for their upstart rival.
"On a level playing ground, Embraer will be a tough competitor," said Mr. Allaire.
The dispute with Canada does not seem to have affected Embraer's stock, either in Brazil or on Wall Street, where the company began offering American depository receipts in July with great success. From an initial offering price of $18 a share, they closed at $39.75, a new high, last week. Each A.D.R. represents four ordinary shares.
Investors have been attracted to Embraer because it is regarded as perhaps the best example in Latin America of how privatization can turn an ailing state company into an industrial powerhouse. Since landing in private hands, Embraer's annual sales per employee have zoomed from $40,000, to $290,000, and it has announced plans to invest $1 billion in product development by 2004.
"This company has really amazed me, and in a lot of ways," Mr. Callan, the Merrill Lynch analyst, said in a telephone interview from New York. "I give them credit not only for thinking three to five years ahead and developing a product line that U.S. and European companies largely ignored, but also for taking what was initially a very sick patient and really getting the thing on its feet."
BUT Brazilian economists and analysts who have studied Embraer suggest that privatization alone does not explain the company's current success. They note that the original decision to focus on regional jets was taken under government management. And they argue that Embraer's worldwide emergence is also the result of decades of investment by the Brazilian government in infrastructure and employee training and the willingness of the Brazilian Air Force to endure a long start-up period and the losses that went with it.
"Nowhere in the world can an enterprise of this sort be built or meet with success without orders from the government or the military," said Ozires Silva, who was Embraer's first president and is now president of Varig Airlines. "The military always wants to be in the lead in technology, so it covers the costs, and the civilian sector is in the end the big beneficiary. The development of the Internet was like that, and our situation was no different."
Indeed, the Brazilian government first began encouraging development of a military and aeronautical complex in Sao Jose dos Campos in the late 1940's, when a technical institute for engineers was founded here. In addition, Embraer's first successful forays into the international market with its turboprop Bandeirante and Brasilia models came when the company was in military hands.
A series of economic and exchange crises a decade ago, however, made the cost of running Embraer so onerous that the military was forced to retrench. "As a company controlled by the state and imbued with a primarily strategic and technological perspective, this company was subject to a series of rules, norms and requirements that put it in a straitjacket," Mr. Botelho said.
But Mr. Botelho and the Brazilian government are now so confident about Embraer's prospects that they are urging some of its American, Japanese and European suppliers to open factories here, with some success. In December, a Belgian company that contributes to Embraer's fuselages opened a plant here. Five American, French and Israeli companies have made similar commitments.
"We're not going to deviate from the vision that brought us this far," Mr. Botelho said. 'We're developing 10 different programs simultaneously, and our plate is full. But we know that our product is good and that our clients are satisfied, and that is how we are going to keep on growing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Embraer, an aircraft manufacturer, has emerged as a symbol of Brazil's technological prowess. It makes jets at its plant in Sao Jose dos Campos, near Sao Paulo. (Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Embraer's ERJ-145, a 50-seat airliner, is in heavy demand from airlines in the United States and Europe.; Employees put finishing touches on Embraer aircraft, already painted in the customers' colors, on the Sao Jose dos Campos assembly line. (pg. 11)
 
Chart: "Flying Up From Rio"
Embraer has won more plane orders than has its rival Bombardier the last five years. The companies dominate the market for small regional jets.
 
Airbus: 2,046
Boeing: 2,757
Embraer: 898
Bombardier: 796
Other: 327
(Source: The Airline Monitor)(pg. 11)
 
"Taking Off"
Chart shows daily closes for A.D.R.'s of Embraer, which closed at a high of $39.75 on Friday since July.
(Source: Bloomberg Finanical Markets)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (95%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (95%); BBD.A (TSX) (84%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (95%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (95%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); 

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (95%); BOMBARDIER INC (84%); AIRBUS SAS (57%); BOEING CO (57%); NEW YORK JETS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); AIR FORCES (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY TRAINING (72%); MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE MFG (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (57%); 

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



822 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Globalization Grows Up and Gets Political

BYLINE: By Fareed Zakaria; Fareed Zakaria has been appointed editor of Newsweek International.

 BODY:
George W. Bush's appointments of Colin Powell, Condoleezza Rice and Donald Rumsfeld as secretary of state, national security adviser and defense secretary, respectively, have been met with general acclaim. But some commentators have wondered how this new team, which is better versed in political and military affairs than in economics (though Mr. Rumsfeld has an impressive background in business) will be able to manage American foreign policy in the age of globalization.
You know the argument: The world has been utterly transformed in recent years, globalization is sweeping old models aside, technology is bringing us together faster and more furiously than ever before, markets rule and governments follow. And did I mention the Internet changes everything? 
 Actually, there's a great deal of truth to these ideas, though they are often expressed with irrational exuberance. Globalization is a revolutionary force, and it is here to stay. But the globalization of the next 10 years is going to be different from that of the last 10. American foreign policy will have to focus less on the economics of globalization than on the politics.
In the 1990's, in the first phase of globalization, economics reigned supreme. After decades of flirtation with statism, countries around the world dismantled economic controls, deregulated industries and liberalized their economies. As capital markets flexed their muscles, governments began to think that they had little power over their own destinies. They were forced into a golden straitjacket, limiting their policy options to propitiate the long bond.
But as we enter the second decade of globalization, countries have come to realize that the constraints of capitalism are not nearly as tight or as predictable as many had believed. In Europe, governments are reforming their economies but have retained their cherished welfare states. And they are doing well, none more than Sweden, where the government spends over 60 percent of the gross domestic product. Several European countries -- Sweden, Britain and Denmark among them -- chose to defy the conventional wisdom and have not adopted the single European currency. Markets have not punished them; indeed, they have been rewarded.
Meanwhile, in negotiations over everything from genetically modified food to cultural affairs, economics is taking a back seat to politics. Europeans have decided that they are willing to pay a price in inefficiency for their political values (no matter how strange those values might seem on this side of the Atlantic).
Ignoring the political dimensions of globalization has already had its costs. Nowhere was this made clearer than in the East Asian economic crisis of the late 90's -- particularly in Indonesia. In the wake of that crisis, the International Monetary Fund and Washington helped topple President Suharto's regime, hoping that radical economic and political reform would follow. Instead, the entire country has been unhinged. Over the last two years, the Indonesian economy has contracted almost 50 percent, wiping out 20 years of economic growth, throwing tens of millions of people below the poverty line and embroiling the country in ethnic violence.
If there is an image that reflects the diplomacy of the 1990's, it is that famous picture of Michael Camdessus, the I.M.F. chief, arms folded, glowering over President Suharto while the old man signed on the dotted line, agreeing to the fund's terms for a bailout. There will be no more such photo-ops.
Consider the contrasting fate of Malaysia, which has recovered from the East Asian crisis as fast as any of his neighbors despite the recalcitrance of its strongman, Mahathir Mohammed. As one Indonesian scholar commented sadly: "Many in my country wish that Suharto had done what Mahathir did -- defied the I.M.F., moved at our own pace -- and we would be better off today."
Or consider trade. Talks over the expansion of global trade are stalled -- and not because of a few hundred latte-sipping protesters dancing outside World Bank meetings, though they are also part of the new politics of globalization. Third world countries believe that without some concessions from the West, these talks have become a one-way street in which they alone open their markets. But Western countries are not about to get rid of domestic subsidies that have powerful constituencies, like European and American farmers, no matter how they distort global markets. Globalization goes only so far.
And then there is the Middle East, where the seductions of globalization have not fared well. President Clinton, Shimon Peres and others painted a picture of a new Middle East, based on cooperation, economic interdependence and growth. But Yasir Arafat understands that in such a world the Palestinian Authority -- and he personally -- would not prosper. Countries like Ireland and Israel benefit greatly from their access to the global economy -- and so they take political risks. But most of the world is governed by political elites who dare not liberalize because to do so would unsettle their own power -- think of Africa, Central Asia and South Asia. To them, globalization is not an opportunity but a threat. If there's no gold to be had, why put on the straitjacket?
Globalization is the dominant force in the world today and a profoundly progressive one. But when Washington advocates economic liberalization, it should bear in mind the political context in which particular countries, and regimes, exist. When it tries to expand free trade, it must broker political compromises to move negotiations forward. In dealing with Europe, for example, it will have to use political persuasion to modify the European Union's views on agriculture, not to mention those on sanctions against Iraq.
Finally there is the underside of globalization. The bloody crossroads of the next decade will be where globalization meets terrorism. All the wondrous developments of the new economy -- falling costs, fewer borders, easy communications -- help international terrorists and criminals as much as they do businessmen. And only well-exercised power -- military, economic and political -- can meet this new threat.
So the challenge faced by the new Bush administration is not the challenge of the 1990's. Recall that the last era of globalization, in the late 19th century, was also fast and furious. It also saw the birth of fantastic new technologies, like electricity, that changed the world. It also raised millions out of poverty. And it was undone not by bad economics but by bad politics -- nationalist rivalries that led to World War I. Today, the economics of globalization are in good shape. The politics are not.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ian Phillips)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS GLOBALIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DEREGULATION (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); BONDS (64%); EURO (61%); MONETARY UNIONS (61%); 

PERSON: ZAKARIA, FAREED; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



823 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
The Case of the Instant Recession

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
CALL it the case of the good economy gone bad. The nation's decade-long boom seems to be ending more abruptly than any mainstream economist predicted. In the first half of 2000, the American economy was growing at more than 5 percent annually. This quarter, it will be lucky to expand at all.
Slowdowns that sudden do not just happen. Yet the nation is at peace and the federal government has instituted no major changes in tax or spending policy. So who, or what, done it? Have a glass of eggnog, stir the coals in the fireplace and consider six suspects: 

THE FEDERAL RESERVE. LAST SEEN: WASHINGTON D.C.
 It has been said that the Fed's job is to take the punch bowl away just as the party gets going, raising interest rates when the economy is growing too fast and inflation threatens. But some economists think the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, did his job too well in 1999 and earlier this year.
Over that period, the Fed raised rates six times, including a half-percentage point increase in May, after the Nasdaq had already crashed. As a result, real interest rates, adjusted for inflation, are at their highest levels in 15 years, forcing businesses to spend more money on interest costs and leaving less for workers or profits. Making matters worse, Mr. Greenspan has been too slow to cut rates this fall, economists say.
"In hindsight, he should not have raised interest rates the last time or two, and he should have cut interest rates in the beginning of November," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist for Wells Fargo Bank, which has $250 billion in assets.
 
THE NASDAQ. LAST SEEN: NEW YORK.
 The Nasdaq's 1999 gain of 86 percent was unsustainable, the skeptics said, adding that new technology stocks were absurdly overvalued.
They were right. After peaking at 5,000 in March, the Nasdaq lost half its value in the last nine months, leaving investors $3 trillion poorer. Smaller Internet and technology stocks fell even further, wiping out some overly aggressive investors. With their portfolios shrinking, Americans have slowed their spending on new cars, appliances and other consumer goods. Ford and General Motors have announced production cuts for early next year; appliance maker Whirlpool said earlier this month it would lay off 6,000 workers.
 
CAPITAL SPENDING. LAST SEEN: SILICON VALLEY.
As stocks skyrocketed, investors and venture capitalists flung money at more and more new telecommunications and technology companies, more than $500 billion in the last two years.
"All of the sudden, you wake up with overcapacity and a pile-up of inventories," said Robert H. Parks, a finance professor at Pace University.
Now, the boom has turned to a bust, and both venture capitalists and investors are loath to put fresh cash into new economy companies. Of course, many of those companies should never have received financing to begin with, but others might survive if they could get more money. That prospect now looks remote.
 
ENERGY AND ELECTRICITY. LAST SEEN: HOUSTON.
True, oil prices rose last year, well before the economy weakened. But natural gas prices have quadrupled this year, and for many homeowners and manufacturers, natural gas is a more important fuel than oil. In addition, the rising cost of natural gas has helped send the price of electricity soaring in California since May, a crisis that threatens to bankrupt the state's two largest utilities and cost California consumers $10 billion or more.
 
THE WEAK EURO. LAST SEEN: FRANKFURT
With the United States growing much faster than Europe or Japan for the last five years, and American stocks surging, the United States was a magnet for foreign investors. They sold their own currencies, especially euros, to buy dollars to invest here.
As a result, the dollar has remained strong against the euro and the yen despite the large United States trade deficit. A strong dollar helps keep inflation down, by lowering the price of foreign goods. But it also depresses exports, hurting manufacturers and slowing economic growth here, said David Huether, economist at the National Association of Manufacturers.
"U.S. exports have been anemic over the last couple of years," Mr. Huether said. "The strong dollar versus the euro is hurting exports to Europe. We would like the euro to be more strong and the dollar to come down a little bit."
 
THE PRESIDENT-ELECT. LAST SEEN: FISHING.
George W. Bush has been trumpeting the economy's weakness, seeking support for his $1.3 trillion tax cut.
Of course, a few investigators don't even believe the victim is dead. "This looks a lot like 1995 or 1998, ," said Paul Christopher, economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. "It looks like a normal slowing, aggravated by oil prices."
But Mr. Christopher is in the minority, and if the pessimists are right, historians of the slowdown of 2000 may conclude that the economy came to grief due to a host of tiny cuts, not a single murderous blow.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Recession, slowdown, momentary glitch in the expansion? Everbody wants to know and nobody's sure. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (81%); WFC (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (81%); WELLS FARGO & CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); TRENDS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



824 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Business I.Q.: The Answers

 BODY:

PART 1
 
1. Ted Turner, vice chairman and largest shareholder of Time Warner, commenting on the just-announced merger of Time Warner and America Online last January. 

2. George Soros, last August, reflecting on his prediction in 1998 of economic doom and gloom.
 
3. James D. Wolfenson, president of the World Bank, commenting on the protesters organizing outside its headquarters in Washington last April.
 
4. Lawrence J. Ellison, chairman of the Oracle Corporation, defending the company in June over a yearlong spying operation against Microsoft.
 
5. Alan Greenspan, explaining why his enthusiasm for his job as Federal Reserve chairman was undiminished when he was named to a fourth term last January.
 
6. Michael Dell, chairman of Dell Computer, explaining the decline of technology stocks at a conference in December.
 
7. Jurgen E. Schrempp, chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, discussing the problems at his company, which included withering results at Chrysler, in December.
 
8. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, ordering the breakup of Microsoft last June.
 
9. John Meriwether, last August, regretting the strategies that brought Long-Term Capital Management, his hedge fund, to the brink of collapse and unsettled world financial markets in 1998.
 
10. William E. Kennard, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, referring last October to the power of special-interest money late in the legislative session.
 
PART 2
 
1. He was referring to the millions who use Napster, after Bertelsmann and Napster reached an agreement to work together. Their pact prevented Napster from being shut down after a judge found it guilty of contributing to "wholesale copyright infringement."
 
2. He was describing F.C.C. officials, who had just backed off on an approved rate increase for AT&T customers.
 
3. He was referring to Wal-Mart Stores and the way it uses its huge market share to start brands and break up monopolies in price-inflated categories.
 
4. He was speaking of the difficulties of following a popular chief executive, as Jeffrey R. Immelt will be doing at General Electric after the retirement of John F. Welch Jr.
 
5. He was commenting on the breakup of AT&T into four entities.
 
6. He was an employee of Shaw Furniture Gallery who lost his job when it was closed after its Internet partner, Living.com, went bankrupt in the fall.
 
7. He was describing the merger of America Online and Time Warner.
 
8. He was acknowledging that sport utility vehicles cause serious safety and environmental problems.
 
9. He said those words in a recording that was used in a fast-paced commercial for the New York Stock Exchange, as part of its unceasing battle with the Nasdaq stock market.
 
10. He was commenting on a Congressional deal to forgive poor nations' debts.
And who is in the montage illustration on Page 5? From top to bottom: George Soros, James D. Wolfenson, Jurgen E. Schrempp, Thomas Penfield Jackson and William E. Kennard. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (85%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (85%); ORACLE CORP (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); FURNITURE GALLERY (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (50%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); JUDGES (73%); DISMISSALS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); MARKET SHARE (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%); ESPIONAGE (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (78%); MICHAEL DELL (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); JEFFREY IMMELT (58%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (56%); JACK WELCH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



825 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Out of Place;
The Price of Peace Will Be Paid in Dreams

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
THEY are no longer just refugees, but the children and grandchildren of refugees. Still, in the narrow, muddy streets of Ein Hilweh in Lebanon, Balata on the West Bank and the 57 other camps, where cinder block homes are painted with Palestinian flags and images of rifles, they treasure keys to homes in the Galilee, where they once lived. Old, tattered land deeds with the tax stamps of the British mandate are passed down the generations with equal reverence.
Today, there are today nearly four million Palestinian refugees. For 52 years, since some 750,000 people fled the fighting that commenced with the Arab attack on the newly created state of Israel in 1948, they have cherished the "right of return" enshrined in United Nations Resolution 194, which was adopted that year. 
 Unlike other refugee groups that eventually dispersed, many of these people, at the direction of the Palestinian leadership, have remained clustered in the camps, which serve as incubators of irredentist nationalism. Here the schools teach about al-Nakba, the disaster, as the Arab world calls Israel's founding, and pass on wondrous tales of the beauty of their former olive groves and orange trees.
It is these people, with their myths and unassuaged grievances, who are emerging, in the wake of President Bill Clinton's last-ditch proposals for a comprehensive settlement, as perhaps the most difficult element in the Middle East peace puzzle.
Since the Camp David summit last summer, attention has been focused on the issue that broke it up: Jerusalem, and control over the site sacred to Jews as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as the Harem al-Sharif, or Noble Sanctuary.
But now, under the peace plan put forward by President Clinton, Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat is being faced with one of the most difficult and dangerous decisions in his long career of successfully avoiding decisions.
Essentially, Mr. Clinton offered the Palestinians a swap: sovereignty over the part of the Temple Mount containing Al Aksa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock -- which Mr. Arafat has made the primary symbol of Palestinian national aspirations -- in exchange for giving up the refugees' right of return to Israel.
But that right of return has, over the past half-century, been enshrined as the central tenet of Palestinian nationalism. And it is not merely symbolic, but practical, affecting lives and dreams. Indeed, giving up the right of return would put Mr. Arafat on a collision course with refugees here, in Lebanon and in Syria.
THE right of return is the most complicated issue for us, and the most difficult," said Hussein al-Sheikh, one of a number of Fatah leaders on the West Bank adamantly opposed to Mr. Arafat accepting the American proposals. In any agreement, he insisted, Israel must accept "in principle that it is the right of every Palestinian to choose to return when they want."
For Israel, too, the issue is acute. With a population of 6.3 million -- some 1.1 million of them Arabs -- the influx of a large number of Palestinians would in the future doom it as a Jewish state.
This is an absolute "red line" for everyone, including Justice Minister Yossi Beilin, an architect of the Oslo accords.
"There is only one issue that could, God forbid, make this fail, and that is the right of return," Yossi Sarid, head of the leftist Meretz party and a leading Israeli dove, said of the Clinton plan. "It is important for the Palestinians to understand and internalize this. Realization of the right of return means -- how should I put it? -- the suicide of Israel.
"If we open the gates to hundreds of thousands of refugees, that means the state of Israel as created by the Zionist dream will be bankrupt," he said. "There are all sorts of ideas on how to solve the refugee problem that have humanitarian and political elements. They are good proposals designed to ease the suffering and lighten the pain. The proposals should be accepted and implemented, but not within our borders."
But for such a difficult problem -- and one with potentially volatile implications for surrounding Arab states that are increasingly reluctant hosts to the refugees -- the proposed solution is vague.
There are 3,737,534 refugees currently registered with the United Nations Relief and Work Agency, the 50-year-old agency set up to deal with the Palestinians, living here and in Lebanon, Syria and Jordan, with an additional 90,000 in Iraq. Israelis insist there are fewer, Palestinians more, and there are others, some wealthy now, in the Gulf, Europe and America who fled or were driven out in 1948.
The Clinton plan has sparked several suggestions for how refugees would be dealt with. About 10,000 might be permitted to be reunited with their families in Israel proper as a humanitarian gesture. Others could return to the nascent state of Palestine, including the stretch of sand dunes in the Negev desert to be turned over to the Palestinians in exchange for Israel annexing three large West Bank settlement blocks. Others, presumably a large number, might be given financial recompense and relocated to third countries, such as Canada. And the rest would be "rehabilitated," a term being used without a precise definition, in the countries where they now live.
There are problems with these solutions, particularly in the neighboring Arab countries whose rulers fear angry Palestinians would be a destabilizing element. This is particularly true in Lebanon, where most of the more than 300,000 Palestinians are confined by the army inside refugee camps, banned from practicing some 67 professions, including law and medicine, and forbidden concrete lest they expand their shantytowns. The camps are filled with arms.
President Emil Lahoud of Lebanon vowed this week that the problem would not be solved at Lebanon's expense. Jordan, where more than half the population is of Palestinian origin, and 280,000 refugees live in 10 camps, is uneasy, too. Prime Minister Ali Abu al-Ragheb has said Jordan cannot take in any more Palestinians.
THE would-be Palestinian state lacks the infrastructure to absorb refugees in any number and is plagued with economic challenges. And polls by Palestinian organizations say that only 9 percent of refugees would be willing to concede their right of return in exchange for compensation. This might change depending on the offer.
Or it might not. This spring, Palestinians, sometimes in groups organized in the camps, began coming by to take a look at their old homes in Israel. Often what they saw, amid a booming Israeli economy, was that their graceful old stone houses, renovated and gentrified, had become valuable real estate. Albeit for someone else.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the border between Israel and Lebanon last June, an Israeli soldier collected messages from Palestinian refugees to relatives whom they haven't seen for decades. (Joseph Barrak/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (95%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (95%); LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REFUGEES (91%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); AL FATAH (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (72%); RELIGION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



826 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word / Measuring a Century;
America Then and Now: It's All in the Numbers

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS 

 BODY:
WITH only 365 days left to fulfill their 32-year-old vision of a space odyssey, the makers of the film "2001" already seem to have proved that predicting the future remains infinitely more challenging than dissecting the past. Recently, though, three social scientists pounced on a single 100-year period to quantify American trends that emerged during what they declare to be "the first measured century" -- the 20th, which by official measures ends tonight.
"The First Measured Century: An Illustrated Guide to Trends in America, 1900-2000" is an album of selective statistical snapshots of a nation in flux. The book, by Theodore Caplow, Louis Hicks and Ben J. Wattenberg, was published by the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research to complement a PBS documentary. As the authors acknowledge, the statistics are subject to more than one interpretation. The book also includes the first published results from "Middletown IV," which revisits the landmark academic survey of typical American social and cultural mores conducted in Muncie, Ind., in the 1920's. 
 Some of the major findings follow. SAM ROBERTS
 
Population
The number of Americans doubled in the first half of the century and almost doubled again in the second half. But Americans made up 4.5 percent of the world's population in 2000, just as in 1900.
Growth rates varied -- dipping especially during the world wars and the influenza epidemic in 1918-19. Still, in every year there were more Americans living than the year before.
Life expectancy rose, but gaps by gender and race persisted. White Americans born in 1900 could expect to live to be 48, nonwhites to 33. That 15-year gap narrowed to 7 years by the end of the century, when white infant girls could expect to live to 80 and boys to 74.
Children, including teenagers, accounted for 44 percent of the population in 1900 and 29 percent by the end of the century. Meanwhile, the proportion of elderly people grew (centenarians remained roughly the same proportion of the population until 1975, when they suddenly rose). But the ratio of people between the ages of 20 and 59, most of whom are considered economically active, and their dependents remained about 1 to 1.
 
Location
Air-conditioning helped shift population from the Northeast. In 1900, the Midwest was the most populous region. Now, the South is (unless Texas is considered a western state; then the West is).
The 10 largest cities in 2000 had about the same combined population as the 10 largest in 1950 (although only New York, Chicago and Philadelphia were among the top 10 in 1900 and 2000). Sunbelt cities like Houston, San Diego and Phoenix have climbed into the top 10, replacing cities like St. Louis, Boston and Cleveland.
Rural population declined to about 1 in 4; suburban rose to more than 1 in 2.
America has more foreign-born residents than ever, though the proportion, just under 1 in 10, is still below the peak in 1910.
 
Work
In 1900, only 6 percent of married women worked outside the home. That percentage has soared to 61 percent. The percentage of working married women with children under the age of 6 is even higher -- 64 percent. In 1900, women accounted for 1 percent of lawyers and 6 percent of doctors. By the end of the century, those percentages had risen to 29 percent and 26 percent, respectively.
 
Family
Married women as a percentage of all adult women remained about the same (about 60 percent), regardless of race, until about 1950. Now, 60 percent of white women are married; 39 percent of black women are. More than 1 in 4 white babies are born to unmarried women; about 2 in 3 black babies are.
Divorce rates soared until 1960 and spiked to 25 divorces per thousand married women around 1980. The rate has dropped slightly since then. Most divorced people remarry.
At the start of the century, 8 in 10 households were headed by married couples. By 1998, a little more than half were.
 
Money
In 1900, families spent an average of 43 percent of their incomes on food; now they spend 15 percent. As a proportion of income, spending on clothing has dropped (to 6 percent), risen on medical care (to 17 percent) and remained fairly constant on housing and household expenses (26 percent).
The poor will always be with us. So will the rich. Cash income for both groups increased after 1929. Both suffered a slight loss in the 1970's. After 1982, the income disparity increased again.
In 1900, only 1 percent of Americans invested in public companies or equity mutual funds. By the end of the century, the proportion of shareholders had passed 50 percent.
In the 1920's, 47 percent of high school students surveyed in Muncie, Ind., agreed that "It is entirely the fault of a man himself if he does not succeed" while 30 percent concluded that "The fact that some people have so much more money than others shows that there is an unjust condition in this country that ought to be changed." By the end of the century, the figures were 65 percent and 44 percent, respectively.
 
Crime
Homicide rates skyrocketed from 1.2 per 100,000 people in 1900. The rate peaked near 10 per 100,000 in the late 1930's and again in the last quarter of the century, but dipped sharply to 5.8 last year.
 
Health
In 1900, more Americans died from tuberculosis than from cancer. The number of cancer deaths per 100,000 people rose steadily from 64 to 201 by the end of the century. The number from heart disease roller-coastered from 345 to 352.
 In 1900, the suicide rate was 10.2 per 100,000. By the end of the century, it was 11.1.
 
Transportation
The number of motorized vehicles increased astronomically, but so did bicycle sales, from 1.1 million in 1900 to 10.8 million when the century ended.
 
Culture
In 1900, 6,000 new books were published. By the end of the century, the number had increased more than tenfold.
Each person made an average of 38 telephone calls per year at the beginning of the century. That number grew to 2,325 by 1997.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The total fertility rate -- the average number of children that women have during their lifetimes -- has fallen below the level needed to maintain the population, not counting immigration.
 
Chart: "Total Fertility Rate"
Lifetime number of children per woman.
 
Shows the averages of the fertility rate from 1900 to 2000.
 (Source: "The First Measured Century")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FIRST MEASURED CENTURY, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (70%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; TWENTIETH CENTURY TRENDS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); PUBLISHING (74%); LITERATURE (74%); WRITERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (68%); POPULATION DECLINE (66%); INFLUENZA (64%); AGING (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM; CAPLOW, THEODORE; HICKS, LOUIS; WATTENBERG, BEN J

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



827 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: The World;
The Century of Refugees Ends. And Continues.

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
YOU don't see them run, because they aren't on the nightly news shows. But in the last few weeks, tens of thousands of hungry Afghans have been moving toward Herat, near the border of Iran, driven by civil war, bad government, winter and the worst drought in decades.
They aren't alone. A continent away, renewed fighting in the Congo has people on the run again, this time into Zambia, where Angolans are also seeking shelter. In West Africa, the small nation of Guinea, with three million people, is being overwhelmed by hundreds of thousands of people fleeing a cruel government in Liberia and a civil war in Sierra Leone. 
 They 20th century may have taught the world to deal systematically with vast refugee flows, too many to count precisely, but the 21st century may have to invent new ways of coping with them, as the nature and definition of refugee crises changes. The Afghans, the Africans, the East Timorese still in West Timor more than a year after their compatriots gained independence from Indonesia -- these people, too, are often running from war and genocide, but the refugee phenomenon has evolved in some important ways in the last half-century.
"The character of refugee flows has changed a lot," said Lionel Rosenblatt, president of Refugees International, an independent aid and advocacy group in Washington. After World War II, he said, "there was some focus and a fairly quick international response -- at least to keep these people alive."
"One of the problems we face now is that this kind of displacement and suffering is occurring in very remote places," Mr. Rosenblatt said. Citing Guinea as an example, he said: "There's no reaction from the world. There's no focus, and it's going to get worse. Bad men and bad leaders abound." That pattern, he said, is "cropping up everywhere, really stretching both the attention of the world and its capacity to respond."
Mr. Rosenblatt has written an open letter to the incoming Bush administration asking it to consider backing an international rapid-reaction force composed of troops from nations that are not permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.
"Many experts agree," Mr. Rosenblatt wrote, "that a force of just 5,000 peacemakers could have saved hundreds of thousands of lives in Rwanda in 1994." He also advocates the appointment of an official on the National Security Council who would be responsible for directing America's emergency response to crises.
The explosion in refugee crises has made the old definitions and rules obsolete. Is someone who is abused, terrorized or hungry a refugee only if he or she crosses an international border? At the moment, the United Nations says yes. But that distinction looks absurd amid the brutality of recent civil wars. In response, Richard C. Holbrooke, the American ambassador to the United Nations, and major refugee organizations, have begun a vocal campaign to give so-called "internally displaced people" the same assistance given to refugees.
What is asylum nowadays?
The cold war era definitions are crumbling before what amount to class-action petitions: Chinese migrants who say they are hurt by the one-child policy, women claiming domestic abuse or the fear of traditional genital mutilation. Down the road is an even bigger test: a drive for the free movement of labor from poor nations by workers demanding a right to relief from economic disadvantage. President Vicente Fox Quesada has moved in this direction with calls for the right of Mexicans to emigrate to the United States in search of work.
And what happens when abusive governments wanting to convince the world that everything is under control ask international agencies to distribute aid inside a troubled territory, not outside its borders, so that those who have fled, but are living in despairing deprivation will be lured back to homes that are not safe -- if those homes are even left standing? The United Nations faces this dilemma in Chechnya.
Arthur C. Helton, a specialist in asylum and immigration law who directs a refugee program at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said, "The 20th century created the refugee framework." Millions were displaced by World War I, leading to a major exodus toward the United States. "But it was really only after the Second World War that refugees became a question of high politics," he said.
Organized programs of resettlement became the answer, which continued under the auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees -- the U.N.H.C.R -- created in 1950.
"With the Hungarian crisis later in the 50's, and the vast displacement of people into Austria, the U.N.H.C.R. became a key player," Mr. Helton said. "It was very much an adjunct of the cold war at that point." The cold war produced other refugee crises, in Indochina, Central America and Afghanistan.
By the late 1980's, with the cold war waning, resettlement began to give way to a demand that refugees be repatriated. The forcible return of Haitian boat people was on display for all Americans to see.
"Cubans were still welcomed because the emigre community of refugees in Miami had become a significant domestic political force," Mr. Helton said. "Haitians, who never made it very high on the foreign policy screen, were treated as unwelcome guests from the very outset. Generally in the developed world now, the welcome is no longer out for refugees."
Also with the end of the cold war, the United Nations refugee commissioner (Sadako Ogata of Japan, who stepped down this month after 10 years, to be succeeded by Ruud Lubbers of the Netherlands) had to deal with new problems in the former Soviet Union, as Russians from the "near abroad" tried to return and those displaced during Stalin-era ethnic resettlements, tried to go back to ancestral homes.
A migration conference for the Commonwealth of Independent States was held in 1996, but progress on resolving the problems has been slow.
THE 1990's also introduced the concept of preemptive intervention to refugee politics. That could mean forceful action inside countries where problems are developing, a policy Secretary General Kofi Annan has endorsed as a last resort.
In barely a decade, the United Nations and private agencies have faced unexpected new tasks: preparing a safe haven for Kurds in northern Iraq and scrambling to find solutions for people caught in the implosion of Yugoslavia. The United Nations has also found itself taking on a new kind of trusteeship, administering first Cambodia, then East Timor and now Kosovo.
For Mr. Rosenblatt at Refugees International, the foray into "nation building" has to start in the refugee camps, where people need to be trained for productive lives when they can go home. Education to break down ethnic, religious and other prejudices can also be introduced, along with counseling.
At the Social Sciences Research Council in New York, Beverlee Bruce, the program director and an anthropologist, is also studying education for refugee populations, with a focus on Africa, as well as projects involving women.
"We want to know, especially in cases of forced migration," she said, "what really does happen when women go back."
"Ambitions and expectations have risen," said Mr. Helton. "The new administration in the U.S. will have to come to terms with these new realities, and will find itself pushed and pulled as this complicated set of new humanitarian challenges force a new kind of statecraft and a new kind of diplomacy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scenes From a Century of Flight: Armenians, 1922. After expulsions and mass deaths of Armenians at Ottoman Turkish hands after World War I, a huge orphan asylum sprang up in Alexandropol (now Gyumri, Armenia). (Pacific and Atlantic Press)(pg. 4); Germans, 1946. Hitler's rampage left millions displaced in Europe, even some soldiers of his "Master Race." (Keystone Pictures); Belgians, 1914. Citizens and Red Cross volunteers flee the advancing German Army near Tirlemont. (The New York Times); Jews, 1947. Survivors of the Holocaust clamored for entry to Palestine. (Reuters); Kosovars, 1999. Ethnic Albanians fled Serb retribution in the Kosovo war. (Louisa Gouliamaki/Agence France-Presse); Muslims, 1947. India's chaotic partition ignited flight to Pakistan. (Max Desfor/Associated Press); Rwandans, 1990's. Tutsis and Hutus fled each other. (C. Steele-Perkins/Magnum); Cubans, 1994. Refugees took to the sea to flee Castro-style Communism. (Radael Perez/Reuters)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (93%); ARMENIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); RWANDA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); GUINEA (92%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

CITY: HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

COMPANY: REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (69%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (82%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (82%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (93%); ARMENIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); RWANDA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); GUINEA (92%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES REFUGEES (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); WORLD WAR I (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); DROUGHT (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); GENOCIDE (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ROSENBLATT, LIONEL RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



828 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Judging the Gentlewoman From New York

BYLINE: By Dale Bumpers; Dale Bumpers, a Democrat, represented Arkansas in the Senate from 1975 until his retirement in 1998.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Even if the Senate were not entering the interesting and potentially history-making territory of a 50-50 Republican-Democratic split, it would find itself receiving new, intense attention in the session that begins on Wednesday, simply because Hillary Clinton will be taking office. The other senators will be bombarded with questions about her: what she's doing, how she's doing -- and later, how she has progressed. Some of what's asked will be those all-too-familiar delicate questions for background use only.
But while some other senators may resent her fame at first, and many will disagree with her now and later on social, economic or political issues, I believe they will be hard pressed to criticize her personally. She will become a colleague they respect. 
 The Senate is a small, disparate group of men and women who are thrown into constant close contact: in the cloakroom, on the floor of the Senate, in caucuses, in their private dining room. They get to know one another well in those confined settings, and one-dimensional impressions they may have previously held about one another have difficulty in surviving. This is the reason for the collegiality that can develop and bring together, for example, Orrin Hatch and Ted Kennedy, who hold diametrically opposed positions on many issues but are warm friends and have learned to cooperate where they do agree. The same is true of John McCain and Russ Feingold, who have strong policy disagreements but have worked together tirelessly to pass a campaign finance reform law.
The common bond that senators often share is legislation and the philosophies behind it. I remember many hotly contested debates in the Senate between two temporary adversaries, but I can remember very few sustained personality disputes. Having known Mrs. Clinton since 1974, I would expect her to live and die by the former but never engage in the latter. She will demonstrate toughness, but also the graciousness that is another part of her character. She will ultimately be judged just as other colleagues are, using the same criteria -- and that will be in her favor.
 Not that the Senate, old and venerable as it is, has ever experienced anything quite like what Hillary Clinton will bring. Majority Leader Trent Lott's initial advice that she take a "low profile" is certain not to be followed -- if for no other reason, then simply because the press will never permit it. Her upcoming role in the Senate, after eight years in the White House as a very active first lady and with much speculation already about a future presidential candidacy, is historic and unprecedented. And how does one take a low profile when Secret Service agents and Capitol police accompany one's every move?
Nor should she be asked to stay out of the public eye. She is a senator-elect from a large and important state.
The unfair onus on Mrs. Clinton will be that her every utterance and vote will be microscopically examined and analyzed for possible impact on a presidential bid. The press is unlikely to allow her the luxury of simply voting yea or nay because she strongly believes a vote is in the public interest.
I've long been puzzled by the intense animosity many people developed toward Mrs. Clinton after she became first lady. All strong-willed people with strong convictions have their detractors, but in her case, the antipathy has been not only intense, but so unfair as to seem irrational. Her health care proposals gave rise not to a simple disagreement, but to open hostility and rancor. Even her beautiful book "It Takes a Village," the concept of which was that it takes all of us to solve our problems, was wildly distorted by her detractors as meaning that the government was the ultimate solution.
When her work in the Senate actually begins, I expect that over a rather short period of time any mumbling over the hoopla surrounding her -- along with false stereotypes some senators may hold -- will fade, subsumed into the Senate's agenda and the daily business of colleagues. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: BUMPERS, DALE; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



829 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Real Reality's Revenge

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
At this time last year a share in WebMD -- formerly Healtheon, the "new new thing" of Michael Lewis's best-selling book about Silicon Valley -- was worth about as much as 1.5 megawatt-hours of wholesale California electricity. But since then tech stocks have plunged, while power shortages have driven prices in California's electricity market into the stratosphere. WebMD has actually weathered the dot-com crash better than many other companies, but right now you would need to sell about 75 shares to buy a megawatt-hour.
This wasn't supposed to happen. When The Wall Street Journal surveyed the economy a year ago, it brushed aside talk of physical limits as hopelessly old-fashioned, approvingly quoting an analyst who declared: "In a knowledge-based economy, there are no constraints to growth." The new millennium had, it seemed, ushered in an economic Age of Aquarius. But now the wizards of Silicon Valley sit there shivering (they have turned their thermostats down to conserve power) and talk about electricity g-g-generation. In other words, 2000 was the year that virtual reality -- companies without physical assets, without profits and sometimes without products -- lived down to the expectations of the skeptics. And it was the year that the real reality of oil supplies and power grids took its revenge. 
 Alas, it's no accident that the era of new-economy exuberance has been followed by shortages of old-economy staples like electricity.
California's power crisis is first and foremost a crisis of underinvestment -- a booming state economy undone because nobody built the power plants and gas pipelines it needed. And at least part of the reason for that underinvestment was the excessive enthusiasm of the financial markets for all things tech: when digital businesses are valued at hundreds of times earnings, while utilities have multiples more like 10, who's going to put money into boring things like generators and transmission grids?
Phil Verleger, my favorite energy guru, believes that we have only begun to pay the price for the exaltation of clicks and bytes over bricks and mortar. For example, he argues that an important reason for the broader global energy problems of the past year, which sent prices of oil and natural gas as well as electricity soaring, was the neglect of exploration and extraction in favor of sexy new-economy ventures. Actually, he puts it even more strongly: "The United States has proceeded like a third world country. Our firms and consumers have purchased the latest technology gimmicks without bothering to build the necessary infrastructure." (If you've ever been in a developing-country hotel or office building during a power outage, you know what he's talking about.)
If he's right, the two great nasty economic surprises of 2000, the tech bust and the energy crisis, are two sides of the same coin: both reflect the fallout from an infatuation with the new that made us unmindful of the old.
Of course, there's more to it than that. California's power crisis isn't just about misguided investors, too excited by the new economy to maintain the old infrastructure. It's also a tale of misguided policy -- of an ill-conceived deregulation plan gone very wrong.
One indication of how badly deregulation has misfired is this: while the error of the tech sector -- overestimating the demand for its services -- was severely punished, the error of the California power companies -- underestimating the demand for their product -- has been richly rewarded. You don't have to be a raving populist to think that there is something wrong with that, and you don't have to be a conspiracy theorist to wonder whether there are some perverse incentives when an industry dominated by a few large players finds it hugely profitable not to invest.
But more on that another time. For now, let me just point out that deregulation, too, was based on the belief that we had transcended the old limitations -- in the age of the Internet we no longer had to worry about the generation and transmission bottlenecks that had always prevented a workable free market in electricity, that had made regulation necessary to prevent abuses of market power. Now California has learned to its cost -- $8 billion and counting -- that those old limitations still apply.
What a difference a year makes. Last December everyone who mattered believed in magic -- the magic of technology, the magic of the free market. Now it's back to dreary reality. Happy New Year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: HLTH (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); BESTSELLERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (70%); MILLENNIUM (68%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (65%); VIRTUAL REALITY (51%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



830 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
When the Boy King Ruled

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

 BODY:
Reign of George II. After the Hundred Chads' War, the Bush dynasty once more seized power.
The boy king, George II, ascended the throne in 2001. To safeguard the sheltered dauphin, fearing he might wander out of the palace and get lost, the royal seamstresses stitched his name and title on the lapels of all his garments and the blacksmith hammered his name onto his brass belt buckle. 
 George II began his reign amid anxieties about the economy, the fuel supply and royal taxation. The kingdom quivered with doubt about whether the handsome, charming youth would become an able, assured ruler or an indolent, indecisive one.
Role of the Regents. George I and Queen Mother Bar, who liked to pretend they were not running things, chose a trio of Regents: The Duke of Halliburton was first minister; Cardinal Rumsfeld was secretary for war, and Colin of Arabia was secretary for foreign affairs.
Contessa Rice tutored the boy king in geography, government and history, but he was an indifferent student. Like England's Edward II, George II was bored by the duties of kingship and easily swayed by favorites.
The Regents were happy to let their charge immerse himself in sport and games while they reawakened the two eras they most admired: his father's reign, with its victorious military campaign, and the Golden Age of Dullness that came to pass during the brief dominion of Gerald the Pardoner.
Peasants and burghers resented sovereign attempts to enhance the privileges of the nobles. Opposition to George II among dissidents and malcontents crystallized around the former king, William the Smooth, living in luxurious exile in Embassy Row, a stone's throw from court, with a member of Parliament.
Court Life. George II was not sickly or dull-witted, as many of the Bourbon boy kings had been. And he was less spoiled than Pu Yi, the Last Emperor of China, who was 3 when he first sat on the Dragon Throne. Pu Yi demanded 100 dishes at every meal and chased away bad moods by having eunuchs flogged in his presence. George II was often tempted to flog the press, but he was too well mannered to flog the servants.
He exercised admirable discipline over his hot temper, which he inherited from the Queen Mother. And he controlled his taste for grog. He had no tantrums like England's Edward VI, who took the throne at 9 and once got so enraged that he tore a live falcon into four pieces.
George II was an obedient son who emulated his father, the old king, in all respects. He felt no need to put his own stamp on his monarchy. Unlike France's Sun King, America's Son King did not create a brilliant cultural and intellectual life at court. He was content merely to restore George I's royal council, horseshoe tournaments and strumming troubadours from the southern provinces.
He also renewed Bushian alliances with the princes of business and the barons of oil. George II welcomed all petitions to sink wells in pristine parts of the kingdom, and encouraged his royal groundskeeper, Lady Gale of Colorado, to drill throughout Alaska. Unlike his Catholic predecessor, John of Camelot, George of Crawford tore down the antiquated wall between church and state and legislated against sin.
Although he never missed a beheading or a hanging, he was largely indifferent to the glittering social life at court. He preferred to take Queen Laura, a highly learned woman, and escape the pressures of constant delegation by retreating to the brambly isolation of their country seat.
Influence of Katherine de Medicis. George II issued only one official public proclamation: The Edict of Loyalty to All the Bushes.
Unlike other monarchs, he did not exile or execute jealous and scheming family members. He had always suspected his younger brother Jeb was less than vigorous in protecting his southern flank during the Hundred Chads' War. He did not like Jeb's overreliance on the Countess of Not Counting, Katherine de Medicis. But he did not want la guerre folle, a silly, fratricidal War of the Rosebushes, so he did not charge Jeb with treason. He did, however, christen him the Black Prince.
War of Succession. In 2002, the kingdom entered a dark period when the Regents fell into a ruthless struggle for power. George II was oblivious to the intrigues all around him and ruled serenely until 2008, when Jeb of Tallahassee arose to do battle with Hillary of Chappaqua. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN AGE FISHERIES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); POLITICS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (94%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); ELIZABETH ANGELA MARGUERITE WINDSOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



831 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: South Africa Looks West for Some Economic Muscle

BYLINE: By HENRI E. CAUVIN

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Dec. 26

 BODY:
South Africa, long dependent on Europe and the United States for most of its trade, is casting its eyes elsewhere -- and not simply in search of new markets.
Seeking allies in the free-trade fight that has been stewing since the World Trade Organization's meeting a year ago in Seattle, South Africa is turning to its fellow economic powers in the developing world, looking east to India, north to Egypt and especially west to Brazil. 
 In a long step toward such an alliance, South Africa agreed this month to begin talks on joining Mercosur, the six-country South American trading bloc anchored by Brazil.
Little trade currently crosses the Atlantic between South Africa and its prospective partners: modest amounts of industrial metals and chemicals from South Africa and some transportation equipment and other machinery from Brazil.
Even if an agreement flourished, South America would be hard pressed to supplant the United States or the European Union as a more active trading partner. But in what South Africa and its allies envision as a new era in trade, South America would be a strategically essential partner for Africa's biggest and most advanced economy.
Developing nations are increasingly frustrated by the developed world's power in setting the standards for what is and is not fair trade. They say that such standards, on issues like workers' rights and environmental regulations, have hurt developing nations while benefiting industrial ones, and many leaders across the developing world say collective action is the only way to change that.
In his first 18 months in office, President Thabo Mbeki has taken a lead role in pushing for more economic solidarity among developing nations, many of which are in the Southern Hemisphere. During a visit to Brazil this month, he continued to push for South-South cooperation.
"As developing countries, we have to radically restructure our economic relations and increase economic cooperation, investments and trade flows between our countries," Mr. Mbeki said in a speech on Dec. 15 to a Mercosur summit meeting in Florianopolis, Brazil.
Such efforts are the only hope for developing countries if they want to gain ground with the world's economic powers when the next round of world trade talks come around, Mr. Mbeki said.
"We will have to have a close and continuous tactical and strategic interaction," he said. "We have no effective mechanism to achieve this at present. Some of us in the developing world must engage in a dialogue aimed at changing this situation."
Hammering out a free-trade pact between South Africa and Mercosur is an integral part of that strategy, Tshediso Matona, South Africa's chief trade negotiator, said in an interview.
"This notion of South-South cooperation has really been on a rhetorical level," he said, "and we believe that by entering into truly genuine and practical cooperation in trade, we will advance South-South cooperation."
Michael McDonald, chief economist for the Steel and Engineering Industries Federation in South Africa, said the trade meeting in Seattle had given impetus to trade talks between countries like Brazil and South Africa.
"Before Seattle, the developing countries did not band together for anything," he said. Now, they realize that going it alone is not an option. "We can't push our weight that way," he said. "The only way is through alliance and taking the moral high ground. The developing countries got a raw deal in previous rounds, and we're looking for something better."
Europe's agriculture market is where countries like South Africa and Brazil are desperate to make inroads. With planting schedules that run counter to the Northern Hemisphere's, the countries here in the South should, they say, be a viable option for Europe.
But it has yet to happen. South Africa made little headway on agriculture in its trade talks with the European Union, and Mr. Matona says Mercosur will find it a very tough road when the South Americans open talks with the Europeans.
For South Africa, six years into its post-apartheid existence, a free-trade accord with Mercosur would mark its third such agreement, after pacts with the European Union and South Africa's home base, the Southern African Development Community. Mercosur, made up of Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and two associate members, Chile and Bolivia, would offer South Africa more evenly matched trading partners than either the European Union or the southern African group.
Aside from South Africa, the regional development community is a collection of small, mostly weak economies, and the limitations of regional trading opportunities played a part in pushing South Africa to look farther afield. Certainly neighbors like Botswana and Mozambique have promising economies. But as markets for South Africa and its 44 million people, Botswana is tiny, with just over a million people, and Mozambique is desperately poor, with most people still untouched by the country's remarkable recent economic growth.
Zimbabwe, which should be a fertile market for South Africa but is economically stagnant and politically unstable, is even less promising. South Africa's biggest regional trading partner, Zimbabwe, in fact accounts for only 3.5 percent of South Africa's total trade.
So as strategic as its courting of Mercosur is, South Africa certainly hopes that along with the respect it is seeking, such an agreement will yield more trade as well. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); EGYPT (92%); INDIA (92%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (57%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (57%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); EGYPT (92%); INDIA (92%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



832 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: BUSH'S SELECTIONS SIGNAL A WIDENING OF CABINET'S ROLE

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush's choices for top posts in his administration signal that he intends to run a government by cabinet, delegating more authority than usual to seasoned executives whose reputations were made years before Mr. Bush first ran for office.
With their golden resumes, long years of public service, strong personalities and close ties to Mr. Bush, Vice President-elect Cheney and the Republican establishment-in-waiting, the men and women of the emerging cabinet can be expected to exert just as much influence over the administration as the staff in the White House exerts, if not more. 
 Officials inside the Bush camp and outside experts on the presidency agree that this might be one of the most notable changes from the Clinton administration, but there are others: the age of the cabinet is increasing, the cabinet has far more corporate chiefs than have joined recent administrations, and among the domestic policy agencies it leans more heavily on governors and others who tend to be skeptical of Washington's regulatory role and partial to sharing powers with the states.
The selections for 12 of 15 cabinet members and critical White House staff positions that will affect the personality and the policy inclinations of the new administration seem to fulfill Mr. Bush's vow in the campaign to assemble a star-studded cast of advisers. He made that pledge implicitly to address the criticism that he was a Washington naif with limited experience in national politics and foreign affairs. And like Mr. Clinton's cabinet, Mr. Bush's is diverse, with women and members of minorities.
"He has made sure that he has a high-powered team around him to make up for any deficiencies, though I'm not saying he has big deficiencies," said Robert H. Michel, the former Republican leader in the House. "To his credit, he's showing that there are some major people who are happy to join his administration."
Mr. Bush has recruited at least a dozen people who worked in previous Republican administrations, dating to the late 1960's. The cabinet and his top staff set a record for the number of corporate chief executives -- four, three of them from Standard & Poor's 500 companies. Mr. Bush also chose two governors, both of whom were elected before he became governor of Texas, and a general.
Among the core of cabinet and White House positions, often seen as having the most authority, only Mr. Bush is a tenderfoot. It will take the bulk of Mr. Bush's term before he has spent as much time in the White House as Dick Cheney, the vice president-elect; Paul H. O'Neill, Mr. Bush's choice for treasury secretary; Gen. Colin L. Powell, selected for secretary of state; or Donald H. Rumsfeld, the choice for defense, all former White House staff members.
With the notable exception of John Ashcroft, the former Missouri senator and governor who is Mr. Bush's choice for attorney general, and to an extent Gale A. Norton, the Coloradan selected as interior secretary, Mr. Bush has shunned champions of conservative causes. Instead, he has favored can-do managers with low-key styles, many of whom have spent at least some time proving their mettle in the private sector.
It is a lineup for an administration that intends to submerge ideology in the name of efficiency. By and large, Mr. Bush's choices are pragmatic conservatives in economic and foreign policy.
"I don't think you can label these guys very easily," said Jack F. Kemp, a conservative who was Senator Bob Dole's running mate in 1996. "Is Colin Powell a conservative? I don't know. Rumsfeld is probably a conservative, but he's also a progressive -- he was a key supporter of civil rights in the 1960's."
Mr. Kemp added that he considered the Bush team "outstanding."
One indication of the team's pragmatic bent: Mr. Rumsfeld, Mr. O'Neill and Lawrence B. Lindsey, the man Mr. Bush is expected to name as his chief economic adviser, are leaders at the policy study groups Rand and the American Enterprise Institute, organizations with mildly conservative slants that often dissect government programs and national security issues and take stands that sometimes defy easy partisan labels.
The Bush cabinet differs markedly from that of President Clinton, who like Mr. Bush was a governor who had not worked in the nation's capital before becoming president. Although he also chose some former governors, Mr. Clinton relied more heavily on lawyers, legislators and academics who were known for their policy expertise or campaign skills. Mr. Clinton kept a great deal of executive responsibility for himself.
Mr. Bush emphasized in the campaign that he intended to delegate authority to competent aides and advisers, not to micromanage the government. The people he has selected are clearly qualified to lead large government departments without day-to-day orders from the White House. But some analysts say that Mr. Bush has concentrated so much power in the cabinet departments that he has exposed himself to the risk of damaging internal conflicts.
Paul C. Light, a transition expert at the Brookings Institution, compared the new cabinet to an all-star baseball club with nine home run hitters and no outfielders.
"There are inevitable clashes in every administration and the key test of this one is how they work out the conflicts," Mr. Light said. "It's very difficult to imagine people as strong as Colin Powell or Don Rumsfeld or Paul O'Neill sitting around and waiting for orders from some staff guy in the White House. You're going to have a lot of power in the cabinet departments."
Not to mention the vice president's office. Though Al Gore had an unusually hands-on policy role, few vice presidents enjoyed the power Mr. Cheney had during the Bush campaign and in the preparations for office. Mr. Bush put Mr. Cheney in charge of his transition, and Mr. Cheney helped select people who at least partly mirror his experience in government.
"Cheney clearly was the right man, right time for Bush," Mr. Kemp said. Asked if he would have had as much sway as Mr. Cheney had Mr. Dole had been elected, Mr. Kemp said, "No way."
Like Mr. Cheney, Mr. Rumsfeld, Mr. O'Neill and Mr. Powell all held significant posts in the Ford administration. Mr. Rumsfeld, who was also secretary of defense in the Ford administration, recruited Mr. Cheney for an executive branch post in the Nixon administration and later made him deputy chief of staff under President Gerald R. Ford.
All the men seem to share Mr. Cheney's penchant for offering no-nonsense policy advice and keeping disputes private. Also like Mr. Cheney, Mr. O'Neill and Mr. Rumsfeld left government for careers in the private sector, where they earned tens of millions of dollars as chief executives. Mr. O'Neill led the aluminum giant Alcoa; Mr. Rumsfeld was a top executive at the pharmaceutical manufacturer G. D. Searle & Company and two high-technology companies; Mr. Cheney held the reins at Halliburton, an energy services company.
No other modern administration has had as many chief executives in senior posts, though Dwight D. Eisenhower came close when he named the heads of General Motors and Procter & Gamble to his cabinet.
One early test of how much power Mr. Bush intends to distribute to the various departments will come with the selection of crucial deputies, expected in the coming weeks.
Mr. Powell has already signaled that he wants a top deputy at the State Department who can manage the bureaucracy rather than set broad policy direction, a description that makes the deputy job less appealing to several Bush loyalists who were once considered leading contenders for it, several people involved with the Bush transition said.
Likewise, Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. O'Neill, both of whom have worked in the White House and know how positions there can be used to control executive branch operations, are expected to seek to name their own deputies.
It is unclear how much economic power the White House will wield. Mr. Bush chose Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., a conservative economist and pharmaceutical industry executive, as his director of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Daniels proved his political savvy during a stint in the Reagan administration, people who know him said, but he has far less experience managing the budget than has Mr. O'Neill at Treasury, who spent a decade in the budget office in the Nixon and Ford administrations.
Some Bush advisers also hope to restructure the National Economic Council, which Mr. Clinton created to give his staff day-to-day control of economic agencies and policy matters. The debate over whether to keep the council intact may account for the delay in naming Mr. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's top economic thinker, to a position in the administration.
Yet even if the White House exercises less power than has been typical, Mr. Bush, somewhat paradoxically, has reserved a sizable role for himself by choosing so many people with executive firepower. Mr. Cheney, Mr. Powell and Mr. Rumsfeld might be expected to have more than their share of influence in a typical cabinet, but naturally balance one another in Mr. Bush's constellation.
Mr. Bush seemed to indicate this week that he anticipated his top cabinet officers acting as counterweights to one another.
"General Powell's a strong figure, and Dick Cheney's no shrinking violet," Mr. Bush said in introducing Mr. Rumsfeld on Thursday. "But neither is Donald Rumsfeld."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect George W. Bush, foreground, is recruiting advisers with experience. His latest choices are, from left, Rod Paige, Gale A. Norton, Anthony J. Principi and Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (59%); TOMMY THOMPSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



833 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Military Settles In, Some in Ecuador Have Doubts

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MANTA, Ecuador, Dec. 29

 BODY:
United States Navy P-3 reconnaissance planes are parked at the airfield on the outskirts of town, the Pentagon is spending $62 million to expand and improve runways and hangars, and American military personnel are already mingling easily with their local counterparts. But Jorge Zambrano, mayor of this port city of 250,000 residents, would rather not call the project that promises to transform his city an American "base."
"It's an advance post for combatting narco-trafficking," he said firmly in an interview, and as such very welcome. "We don't feel we are being invaded by the Americans here. It's as if someone has come along and offered to build us a second story on our house for free, so of course we are going to say 'go right ahead.' " 
 However you describe it, the flights that leave here daily have already become an important element in the United States' efforts to halt drug trafficking.
With the conflict in neighboring Colombia worsening and the American commitment there growing, a new foothold so close to the theater of action will "improve our response time and enhance our ability to detect and monitor flows of cocaine and heroin," Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, the White House drug czar, said in an interview earlier this year.
The work here, which includes construction of living quarters for 200 American military and civilian contract personnel, is scheduled for completion late in 2001. Then the "forward operating location," as it is called, will be able to provide round-the-clock tracking of activity in Colombia and neighboring countries through a pair of Awacs surveillance planes, among America's most sophisticated, and tankers to refuel them in the air.
The major coca-growing areas of Putumayo and Caqueta are just a few minutes' flight time north of here, but the planes will also be able to monitor air and marine activity well into the Caribbean.
Until last year, such missions were flown out of Howard Air Force Base in Panama. But when the United States and Panama failed to agree on use of the base after the United States handed over the Panama Canal a year ago, the Pentagon and State Department were forced to shop for alternatives.
Two smaller outposts in the Dutch colonies of Aruba and Curacao in the Caribbean were quickly found, and Jamil Mahuad, then Ecuador's president, agreed to a 10-year deal in November 1999 calling for an upgrading of the existing Ecuadorean Air Force base here. But two months later he was overthrown in a military coup, and complaints and challenges to the base are yet to be resolved.
Officially, the American presence here is merely a counternarcotics observation post and has nothing to do with Colombia's war against leftist guerrillas or with Plan Colombia, the $1.3 billion American aid plan for Colombia. But since the guerrillas earn money and arms from drug trafficking, that distinction seems increasingly unconvincing to Ecuadoreans worried about getting dragged into the conflict.
"This base is a provocation to all of the irregular forces in Colombia," Antonio Posso, an influential leftist member of Congress, said in an interview in Quito, the capital. "Our oil pipeline has already been attacked by Colombian guerrillas, and the paramilitary groups are killing people on Ecuadorean territory, so just imagine how a military installation like this acts as an enticement."
But the "agreement for cooperation" between the United States and Ecuador specifically states that the base here shall be used "for the sole and exclusive purpose of supporting aerial detection, monitoring, tracking and control of illegal narcotics trafficking." And Mr. Zambrano and other Ecuadorean supporters of the project argue that since trouble is likely to be coming anyway, it is in their country's interest to be prepared and have some American protection.
"The nature of the conflict in Colombia and the way it is moving southward are such that they are going to provoke a spillover whether the American detachment is here or not," said Col. Jose Bohorquez, the Ecuadorean commander of the air base here. "It is the result of geography and the situation in Colombia, not of the American presence, and we should be clear about that."
Though the United States is paying the entire cost of expanding the existing base and will rely to a large extent on the local economy for labor, supplies and equipment, the agreement does not require Washington to pay rent or local taxes during the period of the agreement. But this is a country burdened with $13 billion in foreign debt and a poverty rate that has doubled in the past three years, and many people had hoped for more generous terms.
As a result, the popular perception in many parts of Ecuador is that the base "was given away in exchange for nothing during a moment of economic pressure," said Adrian Bonilla, a researcher for the Latin American Faculty for Social Sciences in Quito. "Mahuad assumed that the United States would help him get an accord on the foreign debt as a sort of payback, and agreed to give Manta away without a real process of negotiation."
Since the document the two governments signed is an agreement and not a treaty, the government was able to press ahead on the project without a vote in Congress. But a challenge to the legality of the accord has been taken to Ecuador's highest court, and Ecuador's Congress is also clamoring for a look.
"This agreement needs to be reviewed, and it will be reviewed," Mr. Posso vowed. "Until Congress has approved this measure, it is simply not valid, and approval will depend on whether or not Congress judges the conditions to be beneficial to the Ecuadorean nation. We are all against narcotics trafficking, but if this gets us involved in the war against the Colombian guerrillas, then things get complicated for us."
Opposition to the base seems especially pronounced in Guayaquil, the country's largest city and commercial center, but for reasons that appear to have more to do with business than politics. Guayaquil has long enjoyed a monopoly on air shipments of bananas, flowers and fish, which a second Pacific Coast international airport here would surely challenge.
Trying to be sensitive to Ecuadorean concerns about sovereignty, American military officials have adopted a policy of what they call "minimizing our footprint." When they are off base they dress in civilian clothes, and they have eagerly plunged into community life here with programs to train firefighters, paint schools and churches and coach basketball teams.
A group calling itself the Marxist-Leninist Communist Party of Ecuador has posted graffiti demanding that "warmongering Yankees get out of Manta." But for the most part, residents here, from shoeshine boys up to the business elite, seem to welcome the American presence, or at least the dollars that have begun to be injected into the local economy.
"With the Americans here, I am certain that many new jobs are going to be created and lots of money will be spent," predicted Margarita Macias Farfan , a shop clerk. "We already see them in the restaurants and hotels, and we hope that many more of them will come and invest here so that our lives improve."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Surveyors at work at the base in Manta that the United States is modernizing at a cost of $62 million. In the foreground are new landing lights.; Flights from the base at Manta, where a Navy P-3 surveillance plane prepared to take off, have become an important element in the drug war. (Photographs by Larry Rohter/The New York Times)
 
Map of Ecuador highlights Manta: Manta's mayor sees the American project as a welcome addition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ECUADOR (95%); COLOMBIA (94%); PANAMA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); ARUBA (79%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ECUADOR (95%); COLOMBIA (94%); PANAMA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); ARUBA (79%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); NAVIES (89%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); COCAINE (75%); DRUG POLICY (72%); HEROIN (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); COUPS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



834 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Wisconsin Casino, Far From Reservation, Meets Resistance

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: KENOSHA, Wis.

 BODY:
There is no Indian reservation in this scrappy city in southeastern Wisconsin. But if the Menominee Indian tribe has its way, it will annex part of Kenosha to its reservation 200 miles away.
The property would become the site for the nation's third-largest Indian casino, but that is not why it is raising eyebrows. It is controversial because it would be an Indian casino that is not on an Indian reservation, leading critics to ask whether Kenosha would be subjecting itself to economic and social problems, while the tribe reaped the casino's rewards. 
 Indian tribes around the country have hitched their livelihood to casino gambling, but only recently have tribes been seeking casinos off reservations. It requires layers of approval from city, county, state and federal governments, which have concerns including whether the tribe will give government a cut of the winnings and how it will work with the police and other local authorities.
It is controversial among Indian tribes, too, in part because off-reservation casinos usually need financing from non-Indians, who then take some profits from the tribe.
In the 12 years since the federal government has allowed off-reservation casinos, only two tribes, the Kalispel in Washington State and the Forest County Potawatomi in Milwaukee, have received all the necessary approvals.
But in several states, including New York, California and Michigan, tribes are trying to improve their odds. The tribes often have casinos that are too remote to attract huge crowds. So they seek casino sites in cities or near busy highways.
"There is an awful lot of money spent by the tribes on marketing and promotions to get people to the reservations," said Dr. Ronald M. Pavalko, director of the Center for Gambling Studies at the University of Wisconsin at Parkside. "They can cut an awful lot of overhead if they can bring the casinos to where the people are."
The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 allows off-reservation land to be acquired by a tribe and placed in federal trust, so it essentially becomes a satellite of the reservation. The tribe can build a casino if it gets federal approval and signs a compact with the state.
The law means off-reservation casinos are permissible even in states like Wisconsin, where casinos are prohibited except on Indian reservations. Critics say non-Indian gambling entrepreneurs are using tribes to build casinos where they would otherwise be illegal.
Kevin Gover, assistant secretary in charge of the Interior Department's Bureau of Indian Affairs, said a tribe had to show that the casino and the business arrangement with non-Indian investors were "in the best interests of the tribe" and would not create debilitating competition for other tribes or harm the non-Indian community.
Sometimes the federal government grants approval, but the project gets held up elsewhere.
In New York, a proposal by the St. Regis Mohawks for an off-reservation casino in the Catskills gained federal approval in April, but is ensnared in legal battles between competing non-Indian developers, and in a proposal to require casinos to be approved by the State Legislature, not just the governor.
In Wisconsin, more than half a dozen tribes have been wooing towns and cities with promises of annual payments and economic growth through tourism and jobs. The Lac du Flambeau Chippewa tribe recently signed an agreement with Shullsburg, a farm town of 1,300 in southwestern Wisconsin, and now needs state and federal approval.
In Hudson, in western Wisconsin, three tribes want federal approval for a casino that was rejected in 1995, spurring an investigation into whether Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt or others were influenced by campaign contributions from casino opponents. A special prosecutor declined to bring charges, and the government is reconsidering the casino.
One of the most controversial proposals, but possibly the most likely, is in Kenosha, a city of 80,000 just off the busy interstate between Chicago and Milwaukee. In this corner of Wisconsin, entertainment choices include Bong Recreation Area, a state park; Great Lakes Dragaway, a drag-racing strip; and Dairyland Greyhound Park, a dog-racing track.
The Menominees want to transform the track into Paradise Key, a casino with up to 4,000 slot machines and 60 blackjack tables, the centerpiece of a proposed resort with hotels, a water park and a golf course.
"We're not trying to get prosperous," said Apesanahkwat, the Menominee chairman. Apesanahkwat (pronounced ah-puh-SAH-nuh-kwat), whose name means "When the clouds are dark they are filled with thunder beings," said that despite a profitable casino on his reservation in Keshena, unemployment among the 6,500 residents was 47 percent.
"We're trying to bring our people up to a quality of life that everyday Americans enjoy," he said.
The tribe agreed to pay the city and county of Kenosha more than $8 million annually. It earmarked money for gambling addiction and youth programs, and agreed to compensate charities that run bingo if they lost gamblers.
Nick Arnold, the Kenosha city administrator, said a consultant hired by the city had concluded that while some businesses would lose employees to the casino, others would open because of it. After stinging debate, the proposal was approved by 57 percent of Kenosha voters in an advisory referendum in 1998.
Apesanahkwat said, "The only people who are unhappy are the do-gooders who want to impose their values on everyone and say people shouldn't go to the casino because they'll go to hell."
Not quite.
Terry Rose, a Kenosha County supervisor, said he thought a casino would "increase crime substantially," remove too much property from the tax rolls, and cause many small companies to close because employees would flock to the casino.
The Rev. Duane Anderson, pastor of Baptist Tabernacle Church in Kenosha, is worried "about the guy who's going to buy new shoes, but gambles it away; or who doesn't have the money to buy a new car because of gambling."
Mr. Anderson leads an anti gambling group that commissioned a study by a professor from the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, Dr. William N. Thompson. Dr. Thompson concluded that the casino would drain $221 million from the local economy because gamblers would mostly be people from the region, who might otherwise contribute to the economy in other ways. By contrast, he said, a casino in Shullsburg would help because most gamblers would come from elsewhere.
Mr. Anderson calls the casino "a front" because a non-Indian company, Nii Jii Entertainment, would receive 35 percent of the profits. Mr. Rose and others question the background of the largest investor, Morgan F. Murphy Jr., a former Illinois congressman who in the mid-1980's was in business with a man whom the authorities link to Chicago organized crime.
Mr. Murphy said he did not know that his business partner, John Serpico, was suspected of criminal activities until 1987, when Mr. Serpico was called to testify before a federal commission on organized crime. A 1999 indictment of Mr. Serpico on money-laundering charges refers to an unnamed business partner, but Mr. Murphy has not been charged. The federal and state authorities are investigating whether Mr. Murphy should be barred from the project.
Other objections to the casino come from two tribes, the Potawatomi and the Ho-Chunk, who say Paradise Key would cut sharply into their casino revenues, which support their own social programs. That argument, Apesanahkwat said, is "like Pepsi-Cola coming in and saying, 'Don't sell Coke here.' "
The future of Paradise Key rests largely with the governor of Wisconsin. Under the current governor, Tommy G. Thompson, the state appeared to be trying to appeal to both sides. Mr. Thompson was named by President-elect George W. Bush as his choice for secretary of health and human services, but the administration that he leaves behind in Wisconsin will remain largely unchanged.
Faced with polls showing that most Wisconsin residents oppose off-reservation casinos but accept casinos on reservations, Governor Thompson has repeatedly said he opposes expanding gambling.
Yet in August he signed a compact with the Menominees. George Lightbourn, Wisconsin's secretary of administration, said the compact, in which the tribe agreed to pay the state 8 percent of profits, compared with the usual 3 percent, did not suggest that the governor was endorsing gambling expansion, because the tribe would have to close its reservation casino. That casino has only 237 slot machines, 3,700 fewer than the new casino would have.
Critics complain that the compact became public only after the Bureau of Indian Affairs approved it in October. And they are especially upset about a provision that could allow craps and roulette, games not allowed at other casinos in the state.
"This could open the floodgates," said Mitch Henck, a spokesman for Wisconsin's attorney general, James E. Doyle, a casino opponent.
Mr. Lightbourn said the governor had no plans to approve the new games, and included the language only because the tribe wanted it.
The final step for Paradise Key is federal and state approval of the transfer of the dog track to the tribe. Mr. Lightbourn said the state would wait for a federal decision. Mr. Gover said the Bureau of Indian Affairs would weigh all sides.
"We want to be very sure that it is not detrimental to the community," Mr. Gover said. "The reputation of all Indian gaming is at stake."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Apesanahkwat, the Menominee chairman, says the new casino would help his tribe attain "a quality of life that everyday Americans enjoy." (Andy Manis for The New York Times); The Menominee Indians want to build a casino in Kenosha, Wis., 200 miles from their reservation, on land now used for a dog-racing track. (Stephen J. Carrera for The New York Times)
 
Map of Wisconsin highlights Kenosha: A casino in Kenosha would be close to Chicago and Milwaukee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CASINOS (94%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); GAMING (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



835 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-13
 
Resistance Grows To Mideast Peace Plan
As Israelis and Palestinians examine how the broad outlines of President Clinton's unwritten peace proposal might actually look on the ground, widespread opposition is emerging in both communities. 1 

Old Wounds in Algeria
New revelations of atrocities during Algeria's war of independence from France from 1954 to 1962 have prompted debate in France about whether full investigations, trials, parliamentary commissions and public apologies are needed. 9
 
Military Presence in Ecuador
The Pentagon is spending $62 million to expand runways and hangars in a project that will transform the city of Manta, in Ecuador, into a key element of the United States' efforts to monitor and halt drug trafficking from neighboring Colombia. Such missions had previously been flown out of Howard Air Force Base in Panama. 8
 
Montesinos Still Undiscovered
Despite a tantalizing trail of clues and reports of stopovers and sightings, the former chief of Peru's intelligence network has become the most hunted man in Latin America since he went on the run in late in October. 8
 
Madrid's Millennial Madness
In Spain, most people agree, the 20th century ends this weekend, and with it, the second millennium. 5
 
Bombs Kill 14 in Manila
A string of powerful bombs ripped through Manila, the Philippine capital, killing at least 14 people, injuring as many as 100 others and sending thousands of panicked residents rushing from buildings. 11
 
NATIONAL 14-20
 
Bush Is Filling Cabinet With Seasoned Players
President-elect George W. Bush's choices for top posts in his administration signal that he intends to run a government by cabinet, delegating more authority than usual to seasoned executives whose reputations were made years before Mr. Bush first ran for office. The men and women of the emerging cabinet can be expected to exert just as much influence as the staff in the White House, a notable change from the Clinton administration. 1
 
Planning for the inauguration of the next president is well under way, even though the committee was formed just last week. 16
 
Off-Reservation Casinos
A plan by the Menominee tribe to build a casino, in Kenosha, Wis., 200 miles from its reservation, is meeting opposition. On one side, critics say the city would be taking on too many social and economic problems, on the other, tribes resist having non-Indians providing financing and sharing in profits. 19
 
H.M.O.'s Drop Many Elderly
H.M.O.'s pulling out of the Medicare program will drop 933,687 elderly and disabled people on the first day of 2001. The most severe consequence, health experts say, is the loss of the prescription drug benefits that covered 68 percent of those enrolled in such plans. 14
 
7 Convicts Pursued in Texas
Texas law enforcement authorities scoured the state seeking seven escaped convicts who have displayed organizational discipline and a record of violence. 14
 
NEW YORK/REGION 21-26
 
Snow Blankets Region And Snarls Transportation
An awesome, end-of-the-real-millennium blizzard struck New York City and the Northeast with blustery winds and whiteout snow that was expected to reach depths of 8 to 18 inches overnight. It disrupted travel and commerce, but draped a dazzling winter gown over the region for tonight's New Year's revelry. 1
 
Mayor Sets Final Priorities
On the eve of his last year in office, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said that next year will be his most productive. His advisers say he is ready to take on projects aimed at burnishing his legacy and overcoming his failings. 21
 
Benefits Won, Then Often Lost
New York State's poor are eligible for some of the most generous health benefits in the country, but the annual renewal process inadvertently leaves thousands uninsured for months or longer. 21
 
Neediest Cases 26
 
OBITUARIES 30
 
Felicia Shpritzer
As one of the first female sergeants in the New York Police Department, she helped pave the way for the advancement of women in police work. She was 87. 30
 
Ronald G. Pisano
An authority on the work of the 19th-century American painter William Merritt Chase, he was 51. 30
 
Chess 29
Weather 31 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ECUADOR (92%); FRANCE (91%); SPAIN (79%); PERU (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ECUADOR (92%); FRANCE (91%); SPAIN (79%); PERU (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); TEXAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILLENNIUM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BOMBINGS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); MEDICARE (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); CAPITAL CRIMES (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); AIR FORCES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); CASINOS (69%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (63%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



836 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK;
Wall Street Bids Farewell to a Bad Year

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Following recent wild swings, the stock market steadied last week. But a final sag in the Nasdaq composite index on Friday made it certain that the technology-laden index would finish the year with the worst annual performance in its 29-year history. A 39 percent slide followed a record 86 percent Nasdaq leap in 1999.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average eked out gains in the holiday shortened week as many investors sought refuge in less volatile, higher-quality issues at a time when the economy slowdown became more pronounced. The S.& P.'s 10 percent loss for the year was its biggest since 1977. The Dow lost 6 percent, its worst since 1981. 
 For the week, the Nasdaq lost 46.50 points, or 1.8 percent, to end at 2,470.52, or 51 percent off its peak in March. The S.& P. gained 14.31 points, or 1.1 percent, closing at 1,320.28. The Dow Jones blue chips gained 151.21 points, or 1.4 percent, to 10,786.85.
 The bellwether 10-year Treasury note, whose yield was down to 5 percent a week earlier, gave back some recent gains and the yield climbed to 5.10 percent. For the year, bonds outperformed stocks for the first time since 1984.
 ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts
STOCKS IN THE NEWS
 
Sotheby's Holdings
NYSE: BID
Having pleaded guilty in October to price fixing and with antitrust litigation still pending, the company had its credit rating lowered to junk status by Moody's.
Friday's Close: $23.19
Week'S Change: +0.54%
EST. '00 P/E2,318.75
 
FedEx
NYSE: FDX
The company said it planned to increase rates for domestic shipments by 4.9 percent, preempting an expected increase by the United Parcel Service, its rival.
Friday's Close : $39.96
Week'S Change: +3.71%
EST. '00 P/E15.84
 
America West Holdings
NYSE: AWA
America West purchased all 158,569 shares of its common stock that was held by Continental Airlines.
Friday's Close: $12.81
Week'S Change: +22.75%
EST. '00 P/E33.72
 
Shiloh Industries
NNM: SHLO
The parts supplier to the three largest American automakers said earnings for the first quarter of next year would fall to as low as 5 cents a share. Its fourth quarter profit fell 73 percent on reduced demand.
Friday's Close: $3.31
Week'S Change: -11.67%
EST. '00 P/E
 
Compaq Computer
NYSE: CPQ
Compaq cut a quarter of the jobs in its corporate research program, shutting down a business development and market- ing division. The cuts allow it to focus on developing wireless technology and software.
Friday's Close: $15.05
Week'S Change: -5.94%
EST. '00 P/E15.66
 
Network Associates
NNM: NETA
The maker of antivirus software said it would post a fourth-quarter loss and replace senior management.
Friday's Close: $4.19
Week'S Change: -64.74%
EST. '00 P/E
 
EarthWeb
NNM: EWBX
EarthWeb is selling most of its Web sites and news services and plans to lay off about 100 employees. The company said it would operate as a recruiting company for technology workers.
Friday's Close: $7.38
Week'S Change: +9.26%
EST. '00 P/E
 
Tyson Foods
NYSE: TSN
The poultry producer raised its unsolicited bid for IBP, the beef processor, by nearly 4 percent, to $2.9 billion. It also offered to compensate IBP if the deal was blocked for antitrust reasons.
Friday's Close: $12.75
Week'S Change: +0.49%
EST. '00 P/E19.38

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (95%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



837 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: As Bill Clinton Leaves the Stage

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Clinton Legacy" (front page, Dec. 24-28): 
 The assessment of President Clinton's record raises the intriguing "what if" question. It is interesting how different political interest groups view his presidency. Feminists still applaud his efforts to help women and minorities while downplaying his marital infidelity. Republican leaders are quick to remind people of the Monica Lewinsky era while neglecting to discuss his economic contributions.
The mixture of reactions to Mr. Clinton affirms the complexity of analyzing his leadership. He is a charismatic individual who is a master at using political power and influencing public opinion. Yet a dark shadow hangs over his legacy because Americans are still troubled by his character flaws.
Ultimately, Mr. Clinton must live with the painful reality that many people will remember only his moral failures.
 
BRENT MUIRHEAD
Alpharetta, Ga., Dec. 28, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); WOMEN (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: MUIRHEAD, BRENT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



838 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
Remember Y2K? Well, It Gets Worse.

BYLINE: By DEBRA GALANT 

 BODY:
PEOPLE may remember last New Year's Eve, when life was going to grind to a halt. Airplanes were supposed to fall from the sky. The electric grid was going to sputter and fizz out. Terrorists were ready to blast Times Square. Cultists expected to be raptured up to heaven for the Second Coming.
Well, the millennium came off without a hitch. Airplanes flew. Electricity flowed. Terrorists stayed underground. And if the Rapture did happen, it didn't take anyone I know. Shucks. 
 Of course, worrying about Y2K is so 365-days-ago that those militia-wannabes who bought generators and five-year stocks of dried milk have traded in their survival gear for cappuccino makers. If people hoarded warehouse-size portions of dog food and toilet paper in their bomb shelters, they aren't admitting it now.
I sent an e-mail message to all the New Jerseyans in my electronic organizer to see what they had left from last year's crisis, and nobody owned up to having hoarded anything. Aunt Frieda did admit to buying an extra gallon of water. One friend fessed up to having bought flashlights. That was it.
"Nobody I know did anything special," Aunt Frieda responded. "They thought it was a joke."
Yeah, now everybody thinks it was a joke. Just like last month's worry that we were heading for a constitutional crisis.
The fact is, Americans like to be scared. And we fearmongers in the media are more than happy to whip up a frenzy whenever we can. Therefore, I will do my best to strike terror in your hardened hearts and predict some nightmare scenarios for 2001.
EXURBAN GRIDLOCK -- With the extra traffic caused by trucks carrying Amazon.com Christmas returns, the ramp connecting Routes 80 and 287 will come to a complete standstill. Permanently.
SITCOM CRISIS -- Hollywood is that screenwriters and actors strike, and the only prime-time entertainment is "Gilligan's Island" marathons on Nick at Nite, and reruns of the Florida recount.
A 'SOPRANOS' CRISIS -- Even if a strike is averted, our favorite show about mobsters is in jeopardy. With Essex County having banned HBO from shooting on county-owned property, Union and Hudson counties follow. Instead of hanging in front of Satriale's Pork Shop in Kearny, Tony Soprano and his pals decide to move to Long Island. Anyone left in New Jersey who dares to joke about cement overshoes finds their fax machines jammed by groups trying to correct stereotypes of Italian-Americans on TV.
A BIODIVERSITY CRISIS IN MILLBURN -- After killing all the deer, Millburn public health officials aim their sights on the pesky geese, skunks and squirrels. Unfortunately, this causes the local ecosystem to become a breeding ground for mosquitoes carrying the Black Plague, forcing the entire population to spend the summer in the hermetically sealed Mall at Short Hills. A Darwinian drama unfolds when the people smart enough to put down stakes in the Tempur-Pedic section of The Brookstone Company must defend their turf against the angry denizens of Louis Vuitton.
A GAS PUMP CRISIS -- In response to rising fuel prices and the proliferation of gas-guzzling SUV's, the governor reverses New Jersey's longstanding ban on self-service gas staions. Hundreds of thousands of pump-impaired drivers cause endless backups at gas stations, requiring drivers to call the Division of Motor Vehicles for appointments to fill their tanks. On the bright side, an opportunity emerges for curbside manicurists.
A PASTIME CRISIS -- Tickets to see Springsteen become so expensive that the only people rich enough to afford them are sequestered in the Short Hills Mall, forcing the Boss to cancel his tour. This setback unfortunately occurs in the beginning of summer, just as the demise of Major League Baseball is announced.
THE "A-BOMB" SCENARIO -- Having spent all his money buying a Senate seat, Jon Corzine declares personal bankruptcy, requiring a bailout from the International Monetary Fund. But New Jersey's economy is so far gone that the state orders Essex County Executive James W. Treffinger to crawl to Garden City to beg Tony Soprano's forgiveness. Tony just laughs and says: "Ya know, Jimmy boy, if New Jersey's so great, how come they make Prozac in Indiana?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); TWO THOUSAND ONE (YEAR) TERRORISM (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); MAMMALS (88%); COUNTIES (84%); CHRISTMAS (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (68%); BIODIVERSITY (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%); STRIKES (67%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (64%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (62%); DRAMA LITERATURE (61%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (50%); WRITERS (50%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: GALANT, DEBRA TONY SOPRANO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001



839 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 5712 words

HEADLINE: Life Stories, Lasting Legacies

BYLINE: By Kirsty Sucato 

 BODY:
A FAMILIAR face missing from the cafeteria line, a vacant chair at the board meeting, an empty spot on the bench at the corner park -- these are the kinds of holes that death tears in a community.
Memories remain alive, of course, for families, friends and colleagues. 
 Other legacies live on as well: the vision that built a business or an art museum, the passion that fought a disease or an injustice, the perseverance that preserved a piece of land or a chapter of history.
Here is a collection of vignettes, all written by Kirsty Sucato, about people whose deaths in the year 2000 diminished New Jersey. By accomplishment and example, they continue to enrich the communities where they lived and the people they lived with -- both those who knew them well and those who will be making their acquaintance here for the first time.
 
Jeff (the King) Jones
When Jeff (the King) Jones bought a rundown bar in Freehold in 1977 his plan to open a restaurant there seemed a bad bet. The former mill town was as bleak as Bruce Springsteen's song "My Hometown" lamented, with "whitewashed windows and vacant stores." And privately, the big-talking businessman was hobbled by an addiction to drugs and alcohol.
Mr. Jones had been sober for 19 years when he died this year of complications of liver damage related to his addiction. His restaurant, the Court Jester, is now the anchor in a bustling restaurant row. Crowds spill onto the red-bricked pavement on summer afternoons along the once bleak East Main Street.
In transforming himself, Mr. Jones helped transform the borough as cofounder of a downtown improvement association, contributor to dozens of local charities and a candidate for mayor.
"When he was given a second chance, he just took advantage of it," said his brother, Steve Jones, who now manages the Court Jester with Mr. Jones's partner, Michael Page. "It's like when you get your life back, you almost lost everything, you appreciate so much more."
Mr. Jones, nicknamed the King for his larger-than-life (and sometimes imperious) personality, became a local celebrity. Several thousand attended his wake, held in an oddly appropriate place: the Court Jester. Mr. Jones's body lay in an open casket across from the bar, in keeping with his half-joking request.
"This was his court; this was what he was known by," Steve Jones said. "This was just the perfect place rather than some funeral home down the street. I'm sure he was just rolling, thinking, "You guys are nuts, this is great.' "
The funeral procession was equally vivid: a horse-drawn carriage was followed down Main Street by the King's red 1959 Corvette convertible, his pet golden retriever, Seamus, riding shotgun. To celebrate Mr. Jones's Irish ancestry, a bagpiper played under a tree at the doors of the church, St. Rose of Lima. At the close of the eulogy, the crowd gasped when Steve Jones quick-changed into Mr. Jones' trademark fedora and long scarf.
"It was a celebration of a guy who quietly made a big difference, and he didn't take himself too seriously," Steve Jones said.
Raised in Westfield, the eldest child of a construction manager for a pharmaceutical company, Mr. Jones began his apprenticeship in the restaurant business after high school. He rose from busboy to manager at Lock, Stock and Barrel in Rumson in only a couple of years. The restaurant's owners, Eastern Associates Innkeepers, transferred him to other establishments throughout the state. In 1977, he borrowed money from his family to open the Court Jester, creating a wood-paneled steak and burger restaurant with a bar. He added outdoor seating, the first on East Main Street.
"The town gave him a really hard time about it, but ironically enough it started to transform the town," said Mr. Jones's former wife, Cheryl A. Cummings.
His business was successful but his life was plagued with a heavy habit of drugs and alcohol. At times his family was forced to ban him from the restaurant so he would not take money to buy drugs, said his closest friend and roommate, Dan O'Neil. "Some guys might come in and take a 20 out of the register. He would clean it out," he said.
In 1981, Mr. Jones bottomed out. He joined a 12-step program, returned to the Catholic church and began to remake his life.
"He felt very strongly that he needed to make amends," Mr. O'Neil said.
Mr. Jones's activism became almost consuming. He didn't just contribute money to the local food pantry, he also prepared and delivered holiday meals to the homebound and to prisoners at the Freehold Youth Detention Center, where he would speak about his experiences. He didn't merely buy jackets for poor children, he sat on the committee to renovate the Freehold Borough public schools.
"He really put his money where his mouth was," said Peter De Fonzo, a friend and political associate. "He didn't just talk about the borough, he would step up to the plate. Whenever you went to him, it was never a no."
The restaurateur became a kind of patron of the community, holding annual block parties Easter egg hunts at his Victorian house on Broad Street. In 1986, Mr. Jones opened a second Court Jester in Hightstown. Another followed in Aberdeen in 1995.
In 1991, he helped begin a merchants association, the Freehold Center Partnership, with 10 businessmen who met in the back of the Court Jester. It is now a nonprofit corporation that manages a self-taxing district of about 300 downtown property owners. It has paid for improvements like plantings and period street lighting and organizes events like concerts and sidewalk sales.
"At its heart was Jeff Jones's advocacy for his community, his town, his businesses and his friends," said Donald R. Smartt, a consultant who helped start the Freehold Center Partnership.
In 1999, interested in issues like zoning and redevelopment, Mr. Jones ran for mayor as a Republican in a Democratic town. He lost by a landslide.
"He knew he was never going to win," said Steve Jones. "But he was one of those people who said you can't keep talking about stuff, you've got to get involved."
Jeff Jones died on July 2 at the age of 52.
 
Lillian Mae Smith
For Plainfield's poorest residents, Lillian Mae Smith was the person to call with real trouble. If a teenager was arrested and his family could not post bail, the gruff-voiced mother of six would visit the police station to help negotiate. If a homeless man died of a drug overdose, she would help arrange the funeral. If the city welfare department rejected a family's claim, Ms. Smith would argue the case all the way to the State Department of Health and Human Servicesin Trenton.
Though she barely avoided poverty herself as a teacher's assistant in a special-education school, Ms. Smith expected nothing in return for her help.
"It was said if you had a problem and were looking to fight for your rights, then get in touch with Ms. Smith," her niece, Beverly A. (Cookie) Dunn Biscombe wrote of her in an obituary in a local newspaper. "If she couldn't help you, nobody could."
Ms. Smith's role as a representative for the underserved began after Plainfield's race riot of 1967 when the city received federal aid to establish community development programs. Ms. Smith, then a welfare recipient who had left a job in nursing to raise her children, attended many of the public meetings to represent the unemployed and working poor.
She knew the city's convoluted welfare regulations better than most caseworkers, said Pricilla L. Castles, the former executive director of Plainfield Action Services, a city agency that provides housing assistance, food, clothing and other resources to the poor.
"There were warriors and people who were more intimately involved at the time," Ms. Castles said. "But she was there. She was definitely a player, and she had to be listened to."
Befriended by activists, including members of the Black Panthers, Ms. Smith arranged a bus trip to Washington to advocate for welfare rights for women. She became active in the Grant Avenue Community Center, the Plainfield Low-Income Food Bank and the Plainfield Senior Citizens Center, where she worked for 10 years.
Ms. Smith fought poverty because she saw her family ravaged by ghetto life, said her niece, Ms. Biscombe.
Her home, at 372 Evona Avenue, was yards from an open-air drug market. Her daughter, Carol A. Schanck, died from drug-related illness, and her grandson, Dwayne Spurgeon, was convicted of murdering his foster mother when he was 16 years old, she said.
To her family, Ms. Smith was a healer. Her niece Deondra Dunn said she nursed her through a case of childhood chickenpox and counseled her when her mother died of breast cancer.
"She gave you hope, like no matter what, you can go on," Ms. Dunn said.
Ms. Smith was born in South Bound Brook, one of 13 children of a deeply religious Bahamian candy maker. She was married twice, to Charles Robinson and James H. Spurgeon. Both men died.
She worked for 14 years as an assistant at the Deron School in Garwood, retiring in 1998.
"Her choice was to be with the underdog, the kids who were lower-functioning in the class," said her boss there, Cheryl J. . Harris. "When she would see a child struggle with something and then reach that goal you would see her really teary-eyed."
Lillian Mae Smith died of lung cancer on July 16 at the age of 75.
 
Jordan-Herscovitz Family
The Jordan-Herscovitz family was nearing the end of a monthlong vacation in Maui, Hawaii, in July, when the unthinkable happened: The father, mother and two teenagers were killed when their sightseeing helicopter crashed into the side of a volcano.
"There wasn't a dry eye in the town," said Terry Rigby, a friend and neighbor in Shrewsbury Borough, where the Jordans had lived since 1988. "It was just tragic. We continue to try and deal with it."
The family had planted deep roots in Shrewsbury, a historic borough that has retained a small-town feeling despite being engulfed by suburbs.
William J. Jordan, a freethinking professor of economics at Seton Hall University, was an officer in the First Aid Squad and a former president of the board of education. His wife, Jan Sari Herscovitz, 49, was an energetic and fiercely intelligent psychiatrist who specialized in difficult cases at her private practice in nearby Little Silver. Their 16-year-old son, Maxwell Eric, a music lover and computer prodigy, tutored local students in designing Web sites and served on the Police Explorers. And their daughter, Lindsey Erin, 15, an eighth grader who had won her school's friendship award, was about to enter high school, her smile newly freed of braces.
"The legacy that they left as parents, as students and as community servants was something that, across the board, was to be emulated and looked up to," said Lawrence E. Ambrosino, the superintendent and principal of Shrewsbury Borough School.
Mr. Jordan, known as Jack, made the most of his three-day-a week teaching schedule at Seton Hall, where he had been researching the effects of managed care on the profitability of hospitals in New Jersey. He was a fixture around Shrewsbury in his red Jeep Grand Cherokee, ferrying Lindsey and her friends to the elementary school, where he coordinated an after-school program run by community volunteers. He developed the program while serving on the school board in 1994 and 1995. He and Max taught a class in computing there.
Mr. Jordan made ample time for recreation. His passion was windsurfing at nearby Sandy Hook. He was a certified in scuba and learned to snowboard at the age of 50. He took the family on a six-month sabbatical in Torquay, Australia, so he could surf.
"Jack really lived his life the way he wanted to, and yet he didn't do it at the expense of others," said Kristin K. Kucsma, a former student and now an economics professor at Seton Hall.
Mr. Jordan reveled in his children's accomplishments, taking saxophone lessons at the same time as Max. He often accompanied him to jazz clubs and festivals.
For Lindsey, the little things mattered. In an autobiography she wrote, she recalled: "I can't remember a time in my life when my dad was not there for me. Ever since I can remember I loved doughnuts. My parents found this out very early in my life and ever since every Saturday or Sunday my dad would get two doughnuts from Dunkin' Donuts for me. This is a very minor thing that he has done for me throughout my life, but for some reason I love the feeling of waking up on a Saturday morning and coming downstairs to see the doughnuts sitting on the table."
Dr. Herscovitz had a more demanding schedule, but she blocked off her calendar for school events and family vacations. She made every one of her children's Halloween costumes.
"She was very animated, very expressive, multitasking, always doing something," said Ms. Rigby, her office manager. "She would be running in in the mornings with her wet hair and pulling on her nylons saying, 'I will be right with you' because she had been up all night reading a report or something."
As a psychiatrist, Dr. Herscovitz favored therapy over medication and often treated patients who had not been receptive to medicine, Ms. Rigby said.
"She was unconventional in many ways," she said. "That doctor-patient line was blurred, and she wasn't afraid to cross it. She was always available to her patients because that's who she was."
Both Max and Lindsey had learning disabilities -- but they were honors students. Max, quick-witted with a sly sense of humor, was about to enter his senior year at Christian Brothers Academy in Lincroft, where he was a member of the school jazz band, the science fiction and computer clubs and the yearbook staff. He was hoping to be accepted by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Like his father, he had an interest in volunteerism. He was a member of the Middletown Police Explorers Post 102 and the Civil Air Patrol.
Lindsey's bubbly personality won her the school's Tracey Kearny Memorial Friendship Award at her eighth-grade graduation in June. She was a cheerleader, a member of the tennis club and a goalie on the school soccer team.
"Her inherent nature was to be a peacemaker and an optimist for people," said her mother's best friend, Sharon McGovern Wolbert. "She would look out for the underdog. She would say something nice to somebody who was down. She was somebody who was just about to come into her own."
An estimated 700 people attended a memorial service for the family at Christian Brothers Academy. Shrewsbury did not have anyplace big enough to hold all the mourners. At least five memorial scholarships have been established in family members' names, and the Shrewsbury Borough School is planning a memorial garden based on a design Mr. Jordan suggested when he was on the board. A school courtyard is to be planted with cuttings from Dr. Herscovitz's own garden of perennials and herbs.
The accident happened in the lush Iao Valley of Maui, Hawaii. The family was 20 minutes into a helicopter sightseeing tour of the rain-forested region, when, it is thought, clouds suddenly descended and caused the pilot to lose his bearings and crash into the side of a volcano. All seven aboard died, including the pilot and two other passengers. The National Transportation Safety Board, in a preliminary report, attributed the crash to pilot error.
Mr. Jordan and Dr. Herscovitz loved Maui above all the places they had visited, including Indonesia and China. They had vacationed there four other times and were planning to retire there, said Mr. Jordan's sister, Linda J. Shepard.
"If someone were to say how they wanted to die and where it would have been -- together and everything -- this is what they would have picked," she said.
 
Frank E. Rodgers
When Harrison's legendary mayor Frank E. Rodgers handed the keys of his office to his successor, Raymond J. McDonough Jr., in 1994, he said, "Listen, I think you should change the furniture."
It had been the same for 48 years.
Mr. Rodgers held the record as the longest continuously serving mayor in the country when he retired. A popular and astute politician, he was re-elected 24 consecutive times, often by margins of as much as 80 percent. The mayor had a clinch on city politics, appointing members of the school board and the planning board and selecting his party's candidates for city council. He served as a state senator from 1977 to 1982 and as a Hudson County freeholder.
But it was as a boss of Hudson County's Democratic machine that Mr. Rodgers held his greatest sway.
"He was an icon of the Democratic Party in Hudson County," said Mayor McDonough, who describes his predecessor as a mentor. "He was on top."
The guests at Mr. Rodgers' retirement dinner in 1995 included Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick, former senators Frank R. Lautenberg and Bill Bradley and former governors Jim Florio and Brendan T. Byrne who sought his support for the Democratic gubernatorial primary in 1973.
"He was the linchpin," Mr. Byrne recalled. "I knew if I had the line in Hudson County, I had the nomination and if I didn't get the line in Hudson County, I wasn't going to run."
Mr. Rodgers presided over the building of most of Harrison's major civic institutions: Harrison High School, Harrison Senior Citizens Center, Harrison Community Center, the Little League Field and the stadium (originally named Frank E. Rodgers Stadium, but renamed John F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium after the president's assassination).
The town's main street is Frank E. Rodgers Boulevard.
"A lot of people said it should have been Frank E. Rodgers Way because he always got his way," joked Mike Rodgers, his great-nephew and a city councilman.
As a boy Mr. Rodgers he would accompany his father, Michael J. Rodgers, who was Harrison's first paid police chief, as he visited residents each Sunday.
When Mr. Rodgers was 26, his father helped him win a seat on the city council, and he served as police commissioner for 10 years. He spent 25 months of his term serving in the Army Intelligence Unit. When he returned in 1946, he ran for mayor on a veterans' ticket and won, ousting the longtime mayor, Frederick Gassert.
As Mr. Rodgers gained favor with Democrats, he was appointed to several plum political jobs, including Hudson County superintendent of roads, secretary of the New Jersey Racing Commission, superintendent of the Hudson County Hospital for Mental Diseases in Secaucus, commissioner of the New Jersey Highway Authority and Hudson County clerk.
Mr. Rodgers doled out his share of patronage, too.
"He used to get to the office at 3:30 from his paying job and people used to line up there for favors," Mayor McDonough said. "One by one they would see him and he would help: with jobs, with housing, any problem that came up."
During his tenure, Mayor Rodgers saw Harrison lose its thriving industrial base when companies like R.C.A., Otis Elevator, Worthington Pump, and Crucible Steel left the city. Harrison's ethnic makeup, once overwhelmingly Italian, Irish and Polish, changed with an influx of Portuguese, Hispanic and Asian immigrants. But Mr. Rodgers remained popular with residents, an estimated 10,000 of whom turned out for a parade to honor his retirement.
Mr. Rodgers and his wife, Eleanor, who died in 1976, did not have children, so the town became his family.
"He always remained current with the people even though he started in one era and finished two or three thereafter," said a friend, Gregory J. Castano, a former New Jersey Superior Court judge. "He did not become out of date. I think that was his secret."
Mr. Rodgers died Feb. 8 at the age of 90.
 
Beatrice E. Steinbrenner
When the Minnis family moved into the Ocean Grove tent colony in the summer of 1967, they were looking forward to the summer programs, the carefree life of the beach and the communal living. They were surprised at how strict some of the older residents of the Methodist retreat could be.
"You couldn't even throw a ball around," said Iris Minnis. "Some of them were so set in their ways."
Then they met Beatrice E. Steinbrenner, a gregarious and immaculately kept woman who would invite anyone for a tour of her little tent-cabin on the edge of the lawn of the Great Auditorium, a vast clapboard cathedral in the heart of the tightly packed Victorian seaside town.
"She was a breath of fresh air. She was happy and she was upbeat and she was fun," Mrs. Minnis said. "She was a colorful character before that was popular, way back when that was not exactly the way you were supposed to be."
Mrs. Steinbrenner summered in the tent colony for 33 years and faithfully attended the 18-week program of religious services run by the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association. She knew everyone in the tents and, some said, everyone's business. In later years, as the town became more bohemian, she became a kind of ambassador for the religious community. Wearing a floral muumuu, she would sit on the glider on her front porch and chat to tourists.
She handed jelly beans to g children through her mail slot just for the magic of it, earning her the nickname Mrs. Jellybean.
"This is the way she would get her love, giving love, and then she would watch them grow up and they would bring their children, the next generation," said a friend, Mary A. Martin.
The tent colony, trimmed with awnings and neat hedgerows, was founded in 1869 by the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association as a summer haven for Methodists. It consists of clusters of pastel-colored cabins, 117 in all, surrounding the auditorium and its ancillary chapel, bookstore and gazebo. Residents hang canvas "tents" on permanent timber frames on the front of the cabins to enlarge their living space. The association still owns all the land in Ocean Grove, six-tenths of a square mile, leasing it to the many private homes, bed and breakfasts and businesses that grew up around the auditorium.
Mrs. Steinbrenner reveled in the life of the town. As a housewife with no children, she had much time to devote to the community. She sold tickets to religious programs and volunteered for the historical society. Her husband, Fred C. Steinbrenner, a federal government architect and second cousin to the Yankees owner, was an usher in the auditorium and so she served on its ladies' auxiliary. Before Mr. Steinbrenner's death in 1990, the couple spent winters in Boca Raton, Fla. They also owned homes in Orange and Old Bridge and traveled through much of the country.
Mrs. Steinbrenner's favorite preacher was Tony Campolo, a dynamic Philadelphia-based Baptist who advocates tolerance, inclusion and social activism. Mr. Campolo stopped at Mrs. Steinbrenner's tent whenever he visited visiting Ocean Grove.
Above all, she relished her role as Mrs. Jelly Bean, wearing a dress with a jelly bean pattern and carrying a basket lined with a jelly bean print. She often handed out copies of the "Jelly Bean Prayer," in which the red beans stood for Christ's blood, the white for grace. In a video interview she gave to a visiting deacon, she recalled bumping into a man who had visited her for candy as a child.
He told her: "You're still in my prayers. I'll never forget Mrs. Jelly Bean."
She commented: "That's like money in the bank for me. I love every bit of it."
Mrs. Steinbrenner died on Sept. 11 at the age of 91.
 
Robert J. Rush
When Robert J. Rush, a father of eight, learned that his youngest son, Timothy, had been electrocuted and killed while using a faulty mechanical lift, there was no question about organ donation. Mr. Rush was an ardent advocate of the practice. His grandson, Daniel, owed his life to a liver transplant he received at the age of 3 after a two-year search for a donor.
When Timothy died in 1993, Mr. Rush and his wife, Patricia, made sure his skin and bones were donated to the New Jersey Organ and Tissue Sharing Network, based in Springfield.
"I think it was solace for him," Mrs. Rush said. "You felt like something good came from something awful."
By sharing his family's unusual perspective with others, Mr. Rush, an insurance executive, became a compelling spokesman for the cause of organ donation in New Jersey for more than 14 years. With his wife, a warm and garrulous foil to his taciturnity, he spoke to dozens of groups like Rotarians and divinity students. He counseled fellow donor families through their grief and helped raise money for support programs for donor recipients.
"His presence changed our meetings," said Mary Ellen McGlynn, the director of bereavement counseling for the Sharing Network. "It put both sides to the people that were there because it wasn't just the sad side of sharing. I would tell their story in their absence and it really made a lovely difference."
Mr. Rush was not a colorful figure. Every weekday for 46 years, he took the bus from the corner of his suburban street in Nutley to his insurance job in Manhattan. He worked for New York Life for 33 years, retiring as vice president of marketing in 1986. He spent the next 13 years as executive vice president of Bartmon, Shapiro & Associates. For recreation, he collected hand-painted lead toy soldiers, accurate in every detail, his obsession since the age of 8. He was meticulous and organized, always carrying a clipboard, even at home.
"He wasn't spectacular in an outward sense, but he did the job and he got the things done and he did it without making himself the center of attention," said his friend for more than 50 years, Owen J. Haveron.
The middle son of a Newark firefighter, Mr. Rush had a strong sense of civic duty. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus, the Roman Catholic fraternal organization, for 47 years. He volunteered on the finance committee of his church, St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Nutley, for seven years. When his children were young, he served as the president of the Parent Teacher Association at St. Mary's School in Nutley. He also coached Catholic Youth Organization basketball, and helped raise money for his daughter's color guard.
"Anything he became involved with, he was a perfectionist and he gave it 120 percent," said his wife. "Anything he ever thought was a good thing he would work his buns off for. He never got any celebrity out of it."
When his daughter Peggy Dreker, Daniel's mother, decided to form a support group for transplant recipients and their families in 1990, Mr. Rush became a critical ally.
He secured a meeting room in a local bank, obtained free use of the Knights of Columbus hall for a Christmas party, and asked St. Mary's Church if it would devote one Sunday a month to discuss organ donation, Ms. Dreker said. Mr. Rush spent countless hours designing and selling advertisement books to raise money for the group. He even folded letters and made coffee at meetings. In 1998, the group -- the New Jersey chapter of the Transplant Recipient International Organization -- named the Rushes the family of the year.
"My father was really a good man, and I think he saw that as his way to giving back to a system that helped save his grandson's life," Ms. Dreker said.
Her son Daniel is now 16 years old, a sophomore at Montclair Kimberley High School in Montclair, where he plays basketball and performs in school plays.
"You just assume this will never relate to you, and when it does you are absolutely flabbergasted," Mrs. Rush said. "Think about it, consider the wonderful gift that you give. It is called the gift of life."
Mr. Rush died on April 7, at the age of 68, from a pulmonary embolism, three days after a hip replacement operation. His corneas were donated at his death.
 
Paul Rabe
Locktown is a tiny place, so it is not surprising that the man who dug Paul Rabe's grave knew him. It is perhaps not even surprising that the rough-hewn gravedigger shed tears for the old German chicken farmer.
What amazed Mr. Rabe's family was the number of mourners. There were hundreds of them: teenagers, men and women who said they had been changed forever by Daddy Paul, the popular director of the New Jersey State Junior Grange for 42 years.
Associates say Mr. Rabe was probably the longest-serving director of any Junior Grange, the children's branch of the national Grange, a farming organization devoted to community service and rural development. He was active until his death at 90 years old, driving a dented old station wagon packed so tightly with Grange papers and equipment that he kept the car's spare tire strapped to the roof.
"He just became daddy to thousands of children," said his youngest daughter, Candy Cady. "And people, out of knowing him living, have grown into a better person."
The climax of every junior granger's year is the five-day stay at Camp Roosevelt in Woodstown in August. Mr. Rabe held court with great hilarity, letting the children costume him as Peter Pan and baby New Year, smatter his face with pies, pelt him with water balloons and crack eggs over his head, calling it "miracle hair growth." He regularly generated giggles by addressing children by the wrong name; Fritz and Josephine were favorites.
But he also commanded respect.
"When Paul Rabe stood in front of the mess hall with his hand in the air, you could have heard a pin drop," said his great-niece Eleanore L. Russell, who was a junior granger when he was director. "You didn't want him to get mad at you. You never saw him get mad. You wanted him to love you."
Mr. Rabe immigrated from Germany in 1928, a month before his 18th birthday and shortly after his father, a soldier, was declared missing in World War I. He joined his mother and sister, both housekeepers, in Roselle, and took various jobs in factories. He met the woman who would become his wife, Frieda Clara Altenburger, while staying at her parents' boarding house in Bloomsbury. The couple married in 1936 and took over the boarding house with her sister and brother-in-law, but they found it was not making enough money, said Mr. Rabe's sister, Erna I. Huber.
So in 1946, the Rabes bought a seven-acre chicken farm in Locktown, Delaware Township. The family kept about 7,000 laying hens and Mr. Rabe sold the eggs door-to-door from his car, on a route he continued until 1985, when he had a heart bypass operation.
Locktown's main street had two churches, three or four houses and the Grange, which Mr. Rabe joined in 1950.
His eldest daughter, Judy Rabe, recalled growing up in a house full of Grange paraphernalia.
"I used to watch out where I sat because there would be mimeograph things all over the house: church bulletins and news bulletins for Junior Grange and all kinds of things," she said.
Her mother died of cancer in 1954 at the age of 39, leaving four children ranging in age from 7 to 14 years. Although relatives offered to adopt the children, Mr. Rabe insisted on keeping the family together. He fell more deeply into Grange life, and in 1956 he became the director of the New Jersey State Junior Grange.
"I used to think he's my father, but after a while I was so proud to be able to share him," Ms. Rabe said. "I know the Grange is what kept him going."
Mr. Rabe died on July 21 at the age of 90.
 
Margaret F. W. Watts
When Margaret F. W. Watts gave birth to her first child, a daughter, in the Point Pleasant Hospital in 1949, she had a terrible time. After a long labor, she spent three weeks recovering, most of it on a cot in the overcrowded hallway of the red brick hospital, which had only 35 beds.
She decided to do something about it.
"She just kind of looked around and said, 'You know, what this place needs is volunteers,' " said Jane C. W. Hanson, the youngest of her two children.
Thus Mrs. Watts, a Brielle housewife and granddaughter of the president of the Bank of New York, began her 50-year mission to raise money for the institution.
Six months later, she founded the Point Pleasant Hospital Guild with a friend, Kay Brandeis. Through countless raffles, card parties and holiday bazaars, the guild raised millions, helping to finance equipment like the first CAT scan and magnetic resonance imaging machines in the area.
Mrs. Watts was the first woman appointed to the hospital's board, serving from 1966 to 1994. A maternity wing was named in her honor in 1985.
Although the hospital closed in May, a casualty to managed care, the guild still raises money for its successor, the Medical Center of Ocean County, and recently bought defibrillators for the police and first-aid squads from Brielle to Brick Township.
"Deep down in her heart she always wanted to be a physician," Mrs. Hanson said. "She always had medical interests, and maybe it just wasn't proper for a woman in the 20's to do that. If she had the chance she would have been a doctor; she certainly had the brains."
Mrs. Watts was born in New York City, the oldest child of a builder. When her mother died in 1925, her father began taking her and her brother to spend summers in Brielle. An excellent swimmer, she participated in the Olympic trials in 1932. She studied physical education at Columbia Teachers College and later taught there and the Horace Mann School in Manhattan.
But she stopped working in 1941 when she married Richard N. Watts. Mr. Watts, who later became the president and chairman of Manasquan Savings and Loan, died in 1997.
"I think in today's society she probably would have been a C.E.O.," said her daughter Marjory F. W. Hopper. "But it was a different time. My father used to joke that he didn't want her to work after they were married, but maybe he should have let her because she would have been home more."
Mrs. Watts, an Episcopalian, was director of the Altar Guild of the Church of St. Uriel the Archangel in Sea Girt for more than 40 years. She served on the executive board of the church's woman's guild for more than 15 years, and supported the Community of St. John Baptist in Mendham for decades.
"She was most definitely a person that we needed to share with the world, whether we wanted to or not," Mrs. Hanson said. "But dinner was on the table at 6 o'clock every night."
Mrs. Watts died Oct. 3 at the age of 86.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from the top: Frank E. Rodgers (with ball), who was elected 24 consecutive times as mayor of Harrison; Paul Rabe of Locktown, director of the State Junior Grange for 42 years; Jeff (the King) Jones, who overcame addiction and helped transform Freehold, where he owned a bar; Margaret F. W. Watts of Brielle, who was instrumental in raising money for the local hospital; Beatrice E. Steinbrenner, who was an unofficial ambassador for Ocean Grove. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Margaret F. W. Watts, right, began her efforts to aid Point Pleasant Hospital after she gave birth there in 1949. She started the Point Pleasant Hospital Guild to raise money. Robert J. Rush, below, from Nutley, raised awareness about organ donation and counseled fellow donor families through their grief. On his death, his corneas were donated.; From left, Lindsey Erin Jordan-Herscovitz, about to enter high school; William J. Jordan, a Seton Hall economics professor; Jan Sari Herscovitz, a psychiatrist; and Maxwell Eric Jordan-Herscovitz, music lover and computer prodigy. (pg. 6); Paul Rabe, right, an egg farmer, "became daddy to thousands of children" in the state Junior Grange, his daughter said. The main street of Harrison is called Frank E. Rodgers Boulevard, for the man, below, with ball, who was mayor for 48 years.; Beatrice E. Steinbrenner, below left, summered in the religious tent community of Ocean Grove for 33 years, handing jelly beans to passing children and chatting with tourists. Jeff Jones, below, owned the Court Jester bar and restaurant and was a patron of the Freehold community, holding annual Easter egg hunts and block parties at his home. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEATHS (OBITUARIES) DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); FAMILY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); CHARITIES (72%); DOGS (71%); CELEBRITIES (71%); LIVER DISEASE (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); MAYORS (66%); 

PERSON: SUCATO, KIRSTY; JONES, JEFF; SMITH, LILLIAN MAE; JORDAN-HERSCOVITZ FAMILY; RODGERS, FRANK E; STEINBRENNER, BEATRICE E; RUSH, ROBERT J; RABE, PAUL; WATTS, MARGARET F W BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001



840 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: As Bill Clinton Leaves the Stage

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Wisdom to Let the Good Times Roll" ("The Clinton Legacy," front page, Dec. 25): 
 President Clinton's legacy will be deficit reduction, bravely achieved by a tax increase, which freed the economy to achieve the spectacular growth of the last decade.
The engines driving the new economy are the same twin forces that built the old one: technology and cheap labor. The efficiencies of computers and the Internet have replaced the old machine technology -- where cheap labor was once home-grown, now, thanks to Mr. Clinton's free trade policies, it is obtained in foreign countries. This willingness to betray unions, a traditional Democratic political base, separates old and new Democrats.
Mr. Clinton recently issued rules barring federal agencies from giving contracts to companies with poor records regarding labor and environmental laws: equal enforcement for private companies that buy labor in foreign countries would be interesting.
 
ALEXANDER GOLDSTEIN
Evanston, Ill., Dec. 25, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2001, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transmission error, a letter on Sunday from Alexander Goldstein, about President Clinton's legacy, carried an incorrect dateline. The letter was from Brooklyn, not from Evanston, Ill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (88%); NEW ECONOMY (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (86%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); 

PERSON: GOLDSTEIN, ALEXANDER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



841 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 1;Column 2;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2797 words

HEADLINE: A Fit City Offers Russia a Self-Help Model

SERIES: FREEDOM'S TOLL: Finding a Remedy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: DUBNA, Russia

 BODY:
In a nation where the average person barely lives to 66, Nina Nikolayevna Semenovskaya is a most notable exception: 93 years old, and still strong enough to bat out love songs on an equally aged upright piano.
Just as notable, though, is how she got to that milestone. 
 Every week, for seven years straight, a nurse has dropped by her flat, to check her glaucoma, her kidney stones, her pulse and blood pressure, her ability to walk. Twice a week, a social worker has come to make a grocery list, arrange for the food to be delivered and straighten things up.
And not just for Nina Nikolayevna. Dubna's city fathers dispatch nurses to look in on 384 elderly and disabled shut-ins, a service performed by almost no other city in Russia. And should they ever need it, they will also get full-time, in-home services -- something unheard of in Russia and not universal in the West.
Sapped in the 1990's by soaring mortality and low fertility, alcoholism and rampant heart disease, Russia too often seems an almost incurably ill place.
But if there is a remedy, it may well lie here in Dubna (pronounced doob-NA). This city of 67,000 people about 100 miles north of Moscow is a textbook example of how Russia, the developed world's sick man, could heal itself.
It is also a lesson in how the rest of the world could help -- and how a genuinely remarkable partnership between Dubna and the American Midwest did. Doctors and hospitals in La Crosse, Wis., have sent a thousand Wisconsinites to Russia to pore over Dubna's health-care system in the last eight years, and been host to a thousand Dubna residents in return. By the decade's end, the exchange has literally transformed medical care here, and drawn the attention of several Russian cities hoping to restore their own health.
Almost every curve on the winding streets of this placid, heavily forested town seems to boast a monument to health care: the rebuilt maternity hospital, which re-opened recently; the kidney dialysis center next door; the diabetes education center in the Bolshaya Volga neighborhood; the women's wellness clinics on both sides of the broad Volga River; the rehabilitation center for disabled children and adults in a former kindergarten.
Such an arsenal is unheard of for a Russian town this size. Dubna built it all in the 1990's, while bureaucratic chaos and economic malaise were making a shambles of hospitals and clinics elsewhere.
What is equally impressive is what those investments have wrought: streamlined medical procedures that have eliminated nearly a third of its hospital beds. A fivefold drop since 1992 in hospital admissions of patients in diabetic comas. A contraception program that has sliced the city's abortion rate to two-thirds the national level. A dramatic rise in residents' satisfaction with medical care.
One yardstick, however, remains more or less unyielding: the death rate in Dubna, like the rest of Russia, has yo-yoed in tandem with the nation's upheavals and the resultant emotional stress. Mortality here rose sharply after Russia became independent in 1991, and again after the 1998 economic collapse, just as it did elsewhere. The good news is that it remains 20 percent below national rates.
The rest of Russia could be so fortunate, said Dr. Sergei Riabov, the 48-year-old director of Dubna's health department. "There is potential in Dubna, and there is potential in Russia," Dr. Riabov, a bearded, bespectacled infectious disease specialist who has run the department since 1994, said in a recent conversation.
"You can stand around and say, 'There's not enough money, and as long as the situation doesn't change, what can we do? But that's not productive. And even if there isn't any money, you should be honest about it, look yourself in the eye and work with what you have."
Dubna began with more than most Russian towns, for this is no ordinary place. And it would never have revived itself without the more-or-less accidental confluence of some extraordinary people, on both sides of the Atlantic.
But most of Dubna's luck is homemade. "Change is not begun without an environment that permits change," said Sandra J. McCormick, one of the Americans who has played nursemaid to Dubna's public-health recovery.
 
Hard Times in a Once-Elite City
For a long time, Dubna was so mysterious that it did not appear on Soviet maps.
After World War II, Stalin ordered the thick pine forest here near the Volga cleared to build a laboratory devoted to nuclear scientific research -- and eventually, a city to serve it.
Khrushchev unveiled Dubna and its Joint Institute for Nuclear Studies in 1956 as the Communist-bloc locus of basic research into atomic physics. This is the site of the world's first atom smasher, and the only city to lend its name to an element (No. 105, Dubnium). Later, plants sprang up to make sport aircraft, satellite components and parts for nuclear reactors, but cutting-edge physics was and is Dubna's reason for existence. With that status came clean, high-tech industry that all but guaranteed a gusher of money from a Kremlin intent on matching Western advances.
Then, with the Soviet collapse in 1991, total dependence on the state turned overnight into a huge liability.
"At the beginning of the 1990's, we were in a much more difficult situation than many cities, particularly with foodstuffs," Valery Eduardovich Prokh, Dubna's mayor, said in a recent interview. "These companies lived on state orders, so without the state orders, there was practically no budget. Wages weren't paid; pensions were not paid.
"Nearly 2,500 people became unemployed. And the ones that were working had delays in their pay."
Mr. Prokh, an outgoing man with a booming voice and a take-charge manner, had been chairman of the Dubna city soviet in Communist times. But he proved no ordinary apparatchik. Appointed as mayor in 1991, he began trying to lift Dubna from its slough -- and serendipitously, found a helping hand 6,000 miles away, in La Crosse.
In the late 1980's, a few doctors in La Crosse joined a symbolic effort by the American group Physicians for Social Responsibility to promote world peace. The idea was to float so-called peace lanterns down the world's major rivers, each bearing a child's name.
One La Crosse doctor gave a youngster's letter about the project to a Russian doctor in St. Petersburg. That doctor gave it to his mother, who lived in Dubna.
Soon children in Dubna and La Crosse exchanged lanterns, took them to the banks of the Volga and the Mississippi, and set them free. "The whole school gathered, teachers and kids," said David Bell, an American expatriate who has lived here for more than 40 years. "There was so much enthusiasm, and that's when it clicked. I said, 'Why shouldn't we twin up?' And we began negotiating it."
 
As Sister Cities, a Perfect Fit
At the depths of Dubna's travails in the early 1990's, the two cities began a more-or-less traditional sister-cities relationship. Early on the people of La Crosse sent 170 tons of food, clothes and medical supplies to Dubna, along with 16 La Crosse residents to help unload it all. Jack Schwem, then the chief executive of La Crosse's Lutheran hospital, flew to Dubna to help set things up, and returned full of enthusiasm. His wife, Marti, returned the next summer.
Ms. McCormick was a vice president at the hospital. "I'd been listening to my boss talk for months about Russia and how fascinating it was," she said. "So I started looking around to see what sort of money was available."
What she found was a perfect fit, a United States Agency for International Development program that subsidized partnerships between American health care institutions and former Soviet cities. With the backing of Dubna, La Crosse's major hospitals and clinics received a grant, and Ms. McCormick became La Crosse's point person for the project. Eight years later, there have been exchanges totaling thousands of Russians and Americans -- and nearly $1 million in spending.
Such programs are not uncommon, and like any arranged marriage, they are gambles. Some fail. Some click.
Dubna and La Crosse clicked. The chemistry between two small cities was surely part of it, as was the two sides' early agreement that theirs was not a relationship of American mentor and Russian protege, but of equals.
But in large part, Ms. McCormick said, it worked because the leaders of Dubna were determined to make it so.
"The mayor is a visionary," Ms. McCormick said in an interview during her 35th visit to Dubna last month. "He was intolerant of obstacles to change. He surrounded himself with great people who were not committed to a project just as long as the money was there, but until it actually made life better for the people of Dubna."
Indeed, after some early wrangling over whether to splurge on expensive medical equipment -- an idea the Wisconsinites rejected -- money was not a big issue. Much of it went not to buildings or equipment but to airline tickets that allowed Russians and Americans to see different worlds of medical care,
After a 1993 trip to La Crosse, for example, Dubna officials surveyed 2,000 residents over age 60 and used the results to begin a home-care program and a hospice service much like the ones they had seen in Wisconsin. Starting from a three-person office, Dubna's home health care and hospice operation has grown to nearly two dozen people, and added home care for younger disabled people to its list of services.
After another trip, Dubna found some local funds to convert a little-used kindergarten into a rehabilitation center for children with bone deformities and other growth-related problems.
Before, children periodically made the three-hour trip to Moscow to be fitted with far bulkier orthopedic devices. Now the Dubna center treats about 300 people throughout the region.
"The people in La Crosse taught us this American technology," said Mariya A. Klubnikina, a rehabilitation specialist at the center, as she took a gypsum cast of a partly paralyzed 5-year-old's leg one recent afternoon. "I insisted on going to America to see how they did it. They do them in Moscow -- but nothing like here, even now. These are much more comfortable, more practical.
"When you see the results," she said, "it's like a second wind."
It is also a second wind for parents. "A lot of parents drive here in the morning, and a bus from the center gathers all the children who want to come," said Mariya Osipova, a 45-year-old speech therapist and mother of Liza, the 5-year-old. "They spend practically the whole day here. They sing, draw, they have computer classes, they do embroidery -- they even have psychotherapy."
 
A Laundry List of Successes
The list of accomplishments in Dubna seems endless. Using nearly $300,000 in city money, workers converted Dubna's old maternity hospital, in which mothers were kept apart from their newborns, into a La Crosse-style birthing center. Mothers have private rooms -- and a choice of colors -- in which they give birth and care for their babies.
To make the switch, doctors and nurses had to abandon the tenet that contact between a newborn and family posed too great a risk of infection.
"A trip to the U.S. inspired them," said Viktor S. Dimitriyev, chief doctor of the hospital that includes the maternity house, "and started the talk of possibilities."
After more visits, Alcoholics Anonymous, Al-Anon and a local sobriety center opened here, as did classes that teach adolescents how to handle conflicts. And with the help of a grant from the Department of Health and Human Services in the United States, instruction about health problems associated with tobacco and alcohol is becoming part of the school curriculum even in the primary grades.
At one point, Dubna asked La Crosse to donate a used kidney-dialysis machine and La Crosse balked, worried that maintaining such delicate foreign-made equipment would prove too difficult in a rural area.
Dubna wound up buying two machines, and sending operators and technicians to La Crosse for training, while a La Crosse expert helped set up the Dubna site. Now Dubna is the dialysis center for much of northern Moscow.
Dubna's two women's wellness centers wielded an American foundation grant to offer two years of free contraceptives to any woman who needed them. As a result, the city's abortion rate dived in a year to 1.2 abortions for every birth from about 2. The centers' new goal is to set up a laboratory to diagnose sexually transmitted diseases, something now done in Moscow.
Not least, Dubna doctors elected at La Crosse's invitation to study how Wisconsin hospitals treated the five most common ailments found in Dubna and found that they were admitting too many patients to Russian hospitals and often prescribing too much medicine.
Dubna's new guidelines for handling those diseases has contributed to the closing of 190 beds, and saved hundreds of thousands of dollars annually.
And patients, educated through newspaper articles, pamphlets and talk shows as to why it was preferable to get treatment at home, have flipped in surveys from being universal critics of medical care to near-universal advocates.
"It's been more successful than I had hoped it might be," said Dr. Kermit Newcomer, a retired La Crosse doctor and medical administrator who ran the program's Wisconsin end. "The physicians are proud of the change they've made. And the community is, too."
As they might well be. For they had to battle their own bureaucracies to make some changes.
For example, under Russian government formulas that base hospital aid on the number of patients, promoting home care meant a huge drop in subsidies.
Dubna and La Crosse managers argued to Russian authorities that the city should not be punished for gaining greater efficiencies -- and managed to get a new formula to calculate assistance.
Westerners accustomed to fighting authority may not fully appreciate the fortitude needed to upset a Russian apple cart. And those unfamiliar with Russia's ingrained suspicion of things foreign -- especially American -- may not grasp the sea change in attitude here.
But Mr. Bell, the American living here, can offer a good illustration of the transformation.
Last spring, after American-led NATO forces started a bombing campaign against Yugoslavia, Russians everywhere felt not just outraged, but betrayed. And in Dubna, they wrote a letter to Mayor Prokh.
"They were demanding that he immediately cut off all relations with people in La Crosse if La Crosse didn't condemn Clinton's action in Yugoslavia," Mr. Bell said.
The mayor read the letter. Then he issued a diplomatically worded reply which can be summarized in a word: No.
"We have a lot of friends in La Crosse," Mr. Prokh said in a recent conversation.
Last year, United States funding for the health care partnership between Dubna and La Crosse ended, for the best of reasons: Dubna did not need more help.
The rest of Russia does. Whether it will get it is another question.
The Ministry of Health declined several requests for interviews for this series of articles. Officials did provide a two-page statement noting that federal spending on health care rose by a third this year, to about $440 million, and should grow another 25 percent in 2001.
President Vladimir V. Putin, who has cast Russia's population decline as a threat to national security and the Russian identity, has ordered aides to fix the health care mess. Last September, the Kremlin issued a blueprint for public health that stresses concepts embraced by much of the West, from greater reliance on market incentives to a new emphasis on disease prevention and healthy living.
Most experts applaud the plans, even as they wonder whether a Kremlin blueprint is a substitute for greater willingness to make difficult changes, or even recognize that change is needed.
This fall, Russia's health minister sought to dramatize Russia's epidemic of circulatory disease by pulling out a blood-pressure cuff at a Kremlin cabinet meeting and offering to test his fellow members. The results were telling: 80 percent of those tested turned out to have hypertension.
But half the cabinet refused to be tested.
 
Freedom's Toll
This is the last in a series about Russian health care. Previous articles examined the reasons for the decline in life expectancy in Russia since the collapse of the Soviet Union, looked at care inside a Moscow hospital, described private health care, examined some of the reasons behind a lower birth rate and gave an account of the spread of infectious diseases. Articles in this series and related coverage are available at The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2001, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about a health care partnership between Dubna, Russia, and La Crosse, Wis., referred incorrectly to precedents for lending a city's name to an element on the periodic table. Several such names exist; Dubnium is not the only one. The article also misidentified the site of the first atom smasher. It is Berkeley, Calif., not Dubna.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Dubna, health care has soared as it sank elsewhere in Russia. At a children's center, Mariya A. Klubnikina treated Liza Osipova, age 5. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Irina Makarova, Dubna's deputy health director, in La Crosse on an exchange program, with Dr. J. Michael Hartigan at Gundersen Lutheran Medical Center. (Erik Daily for The New York Times); A maternity hospital, recently rebuilt, testifies to Dubna's health care surge in the 90's. (James Hill for The New York Times); Two Russian health care workers tested blood pressure during a health fair in Dubna last July. The event was organized jointly by Americans from Wisconsin and Russians. (Barbara Pertasky); Mayor Valery Eduardovich Prokh found some helping hands in Wisconsin. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (68%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (68%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. DISABLED PERSONS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); HOSPITALS (88%); CHILDREN (77%); MUSIC (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); DIALYSIS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); KIDNEY DISEASE (76%); DIABETES (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); GLAUCOMA (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (70%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (64%); ABORTION (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



842 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 12; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: WINE UNDER $20;
Certain Value At an Uncertain Time

BYLINE: By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
As speculation about economic slowdown, if not recession, in 2001 mounts and thrifty price-value buying strategies become important, Europe's most undervalued region of affordable premium wines springs to mind: Alsace.
 
 Except for a sales spurt in 1986, the centenary of the Statue of Liberty, designed by the sculptor Frederic A. Bartholdi, which briefly sent his native Alsace to center stage, its splendid whites have been largely a public secret here.
 Throughout the rest of France, until recently almost all wines had been defined solely by place names, but in Alsace grapes confer identity: riesling, gewurztraminer, pinot blanc, today pinot gris and muscat.
 Although Amerian wines are also classified primarily by fruit, Americans have never bought into Alsace's system. Is it because on the street, rather than at the collectors' level, the nationality of this northeastern battleground region near the Rhine, alternately held by Germany and France, remains confusing? I believe so.
 Although expensive dessert wines known as vendange tardive (late harvest) and selection de grains nobles (selection of noble grapes, equal to German berrenauslese) can be glorious, the dry, spicy whites are daily workhorses with the region's delicious Germanic dishes. Lightly chilled, they are equally at home at America's table.
 Reared in steel tanks or old neutral wood that barely influences them, the wines are all about fruit, aroma and crispness. In the investment-grade tier beyond $20, they express terroir: vineyards' individual characteristics.
 Allowing for vintage variations and routine ups and downs of winegrowing, steadily dependable producers whose bottles neighborhood shops can obtain usually within two days are Hugel, Len Beyer, Kuntz-Bas, Paul Blanck, Josmeyer, Trimbach, Marcel Deiss, Dopff et Irion, Schlumberger, Pierre Sparr and Lucien Albrecht. For splurges, seek out Zind-Humbrecht and Marc Kreydenweiss.
 HOWARD G. GOLDBERG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of France highlighting Alsace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: ALSACE, FRANCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALSACE (FRANCE); FRANCE; FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); ALSACE, FRANCE (94%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (90%); WINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, HOWARD G

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001



843 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 1; Television 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: COVER STORY;
In Britain It's a Challenge; Here It's War

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM 

 BODY:
YOU will not see this on PBS, but you may still learn something. Here's the concept. Two four-member teams of the mechanically inclined assemble in a vast junkyard on the out-skirts of London. They have been issued brightly colored, form-fitting jumpsuits with team names on the back (the Scrap Daddies, the Dipsticks, the Metal Medics). One team, which included three British vicars, called itself Three Revs a Minute.
 
 Next, a wise guy co-host in a designer military helmet appears, perched perhaps on a box spring or a car hassis atop a pyramid of scrap. He introduces the teams and then, as if reliving an old "Mission: Impossible" episode, reveals to the eager rivals just what it is they will be called upon to build. Usually it's something vaguely useful- a battering ram, a catapult, an imitation Hovercraft. They have 10 hours to do it. You get to see it all in 60 minutes.
 What began in Britain in 1998 as "Scrapheap Challenge" is finding a fresh audience in North America as "Junkyard Wars" on the Learning Channel. For the most part, it's precisely what the channel's motto aims for: "life unscripted."
 The British version was broadast here last January, then again in July and earlier in December. Beginning this week, episodes with American teams will be shown on Wednesdays at 9 p.m through Jan. 24. (For the first three weeks, two shows will be broadcast back to back.) After that, the channel is said to be considering a new weekly schedule.
 Although the format remains the same here as it was in Britain, the change in title from "challenge" to "wars" reflects some cultural differences - the stiff upper lip versus a Vince Lombardi frame of mind. "They're all good sports," said Cathy Rogers, the 32-year-old Oxford graduate and former pre-med student who conceived the show. "Though I must say the Americans are a bit more competitive. British teams are terribly stoic, you know. They'll congratulate the winers. 'Good show! Nice work there!' But a couple of the American teams were very sore about losing."
 Ms. Rogers joined the show on camera after its first season, when the producers decided that the role of host was too complicated for one person. "We auditioned quite a few women presenters, but they kept saying, 'Oh, no, I don't think she's quite right,' " Ms. Rogers said. "Then one day someone said, 'Why don't you do it?' "
 Ms. Rogers looks ready-made for the task. A willowy frosted blonde with a passing resemblance to Diana, Princess of Wales, she ducks in and out of the slightly forbidding industrial tract seeking to have team members explain what they are welding and why. In voice-overs for schemati drawings, Ms. Rogers explains the basic physics of an engine, a ompressed-air cannon or a sail.
 "The idea for the show came to me from 'Apollo 13,' " she said, referring to the 1995 film about three astronauts with a problem. "Do you remember the scene - it's the best one, I think - in which they're having trouble up there and they've got to build something useful out of a bucket of rubbish?"
 At first she tried to think up historical examples brought about by the necessity of war or other emergencies that called for quick thinking on the spot. But that notion became too confining so the producers broadened the concept to include mechanical devices of all kinds. For the sake of safety, a portion of the huge junk-yard, in Canning Town, an unsalubrious part of London, as Ms. Rogers alls it, is stocked and laid out expressly for the show.
 Sedate it's not, but "Junkyard" may well be educational, a goal that meshes with those of Jana Bennett, who became executive vice president and general manager of TLC North America a little over a year ago.
 "Reality has a lot of drama in it," she said. "People like to see stories unfolding, something with a beginning, a middle and an end. The rules are set, but the script isn't written.
 "On another level, you see people in a situation where they have to use their ingenuity and force of personality to pull things together," Ms. Bennett continued. "It's vicarious, but it's interesting to observe it. It's like sports, in a sense. 'Junkyard Wars' manages to combine these elements. It's the best nonmedicinal way to present engineering principles or basic science. And you do marvel at people's imagination."
 Ms. Bennett, a New Hampshire native transplanted to Britain as a high school student 26 years ago, has degrees from Oxford University and the London School of Economics. She was studying arms control and was "on the brink of a Ph. D. in foreign policy" when she decided she would rather communicat what she knows, no just study it. Thus began a career with the BBC, first in current affairs and then, at the time of the Chernobyl nuclear accident in 1986, in science news.
 "Politics," she said, "is about new people having arguments about old ideas. Sciene is people having arguments about new ideas. And for me, on TV, that translates into the experiental - people who will speak in a vernacular which is accessible and sensible."
 "Junkyard Wars" is nothing if not accessible. In "Ballistic Missiles," an episode prepared for broadcast this Wednesday, the Rusty Juveniles, a team of geezers from Cleveland, and the Young Guns, three men in their 20's from nothern California, compete to build a machine that will hurl a pumpkin at their opponents' "castle" 50 yards away.
 The Juveniles build an air cannon with a compressor that operates on the power of tandem cyclists. The Guns build a slightly updated version of a medieval trebuchet, a kind of catapult with a sling to cradle the pumpkin.
 Research, design and fabriation take place on Day 1. The contest (in which each team has three shots at the castle) takes place on Day 2. And all thewhile, Ms. rogers keeps tabs on mechanical progress the way color announcers analyze plays during N.F.L. games. At the same time, at least five video cameras are recording the teams' exertions from every conceivable angle.
 The pumpkin war ends with some accurate shot making, but not without technical angle.
 "It's more normal for things to go wrong," Ms. Rogers said amiably of the finished projects. "On the contest day, it's very rare that the machines have any life left in them. And at day's end, we've got 70 to 80 hours of rushes. That's why it takes six weeks to edit each show.
 "After all, you can only film so much welding."
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the cover: The Scrap Daddies team with their version of a Hovercraft on "Junkyard Wars."; Competing teams appearing on "Junkyard Wars" include the Nerdds, left, iwth their underwater chariot; two fo the Long Brothers, below left, in the junkyard; the Rusty Juveniles, right, with their air cannon; and the Youn gguns, far right, with their medieval trebuchet, in the "Ballistic Missiles" episode, to be shown at 10 p.m. on Wednesday. (Photographs by TLC); George Gray and Cathy Rogers, left, the co-hosts of "Junkyard Wars," on the Learning Channel, and Jana Bennett of TLC North america. (Rich Greenhouse/TLC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: JUNKYARD WARS (SCRAPHEAP CHALLENGE) (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NORTH AMERICA (87%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (58%); LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); NORTH AMERICA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); 

PERSON: STRUM, CHARLES; ROGERS, CATHY PRINCESS DIANA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001



844 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 2; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
How to Avoid Passport Woes

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
HERE'S a New Year's resolution for you: Avoid last-minute travel hassles by getting out your passport. If it expires anytime in 2001, renew now, while the process is quick and involves no surcharge.
If your passport is nearing the end of 10 years, you may be surprised by recent changes in the renewal system. First, unless you have a ticket for overseas travel within 14 days, or require visas for a trip leaving not much later, you cannot renew in person, but only by mail. Everywhere but Hawaii and New Orleans, those who qualify for in-person renewals must get an appointment. Second, you no longer need to go to a post office for a form; you can find one on the State Department's Web site, www.travel.state.gov and probably print it out at home. Third, on Feb. 1, 1998, the age limit on a youth passport changed again, and young people may use a renewal form rather than a new-passport form if they got their previous passports when they were at least 16 -- not 18. 

Delays Expected in New York
There is an additional caution for people in the New York Passport Region. In early February, machinery to digitize passport photos is scheduled to arrive at the New York Center at 376 Hudson Street. While it is being installed, which may take a couple of weeks, daily appointments will be reduced, possibly by half.
For this reason, William Collins Jr., who retired this weekend after almost 10 years as director of the New York Passport Region, strongly urged those who have expirations in the next three months to renew by mail now because if a travel emergency develops during the changeover, the center may be unable to help.
A passport of any vintage, from weeks old to 12 years -- that is, expired no more than two years -- may be renewed at will. If you have a passport photo you'd like to replace, and are able to pay for the privilege, the State Department can oblige.
These are the fees: For a regular renewal, $40; for a new passport, which must be submitted in person at a post office or court, $60, which is $45 for the passport, $15 for the execution fee; for a five-year passport for a child 15 or under, $40. For expedited service, $35 extra for any type of passport. With a ticket to travel within 14 days, three-day service may be available at an agency; by mail, expedited renewal may take five to seven days, according to Ann M. Barrett, acting managing director of Passport Services in Washington. Acceptance places for first passports are listed on the Web site or in the blue pages of phone books, under "passport acceptance facilities."
People who are leaving in three to four weeks and find their passports are running out -- many countries will not accept passports with less than six months to go -- are between a rock and a bureaucracy. If they are near a passport office, they can wait until the 14-day limit for appointments, or alternatively, they can deliver the application to an acceptance window or passport agency now with Express Mail postage attached, a $35 fee for expedited help, and return Express Mail postage inside.
The State Department says that regular mail applications take 25 days for the round trip. Mail renewal applications should go to Post Office Box 371971, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15262.
There are 13 regular passport agencies in the United States, plus one for diplomatic and other no-fee passports. The 13 agencies and their automated phone numbers are listed in the adjacent box and on the Web site. You will need a touch-tone phone to work these systems. Except for Honolulu and New Orleans, the regular agencies now work by phone appointment only, serving only people with tickets for travel soon, mostly within 14 days, although Chicago and Washington set the limit at 21 days. The Honolulu and New Orleans offices will be going to appointments-only soon, Ms. Barrett says.
Mr. Collins devised the appointment-only system, and New York was the first to shift, in 1996. The next year, the New York agency moved to a Federal building in SoHo, upstairs from the Houston Street stop of the No. 1 and 9 trains of the IRT. Security in the Passport Agency lobby includes screening of bags and parcels by uniformed personnel. There is an information window and a bank of house phones giving access to automated lines to seek an appointment, but no chairs. Those with appointments cannot go upstairs ahead of their appointment hour.
In the 10th-floor offices, there are chairs for people waiting for their numbers to be called, and even a couple of toilets and pay phones: these are improvements over the old offices in Rockefeller Center. On a recent visit, there were many children, including one newborn so tiny her mother held her on the counter ledge while an agent went over the application. The director said the office gets many children, particularly as summer approaches and they prepare to stay with grandparents in an immigrant's home country. A child gets his or her own passport, even traveling with a parent, because emergencies may require one to travel without the other.
 
More Passports Than Ever
The New York office handles 350 to 400 people a day in this season; that will rise to 700 in April, May and June; extra windows are opened and employees shifted.
There are now more passports in use than ever before in United States history: the State Department estimates the total at 50 million; in 1998, the figure was 45 million and in 1992, 33 million. In the fiscal year that just ended, 7.3 million passports were issued, of which less than 20 percent were renewals. Ms. Barrett said that the excellent economy was encouraging travel and bringing in first-time applicants. Also, she said, newly naturalized citizens want passports to visit relatives in the old home. The majority of the others were new passports. The total for new passports surpassed that for renewals in 1995, and there it has stayed.
Passports are not needed for travel to Mexico or Canada, Americans' two major destinations, but Ms. Barrett said that the government encouraged everyone to get one, for its value as a document recognized worldwide, and for its use in emergencies. "All citizens with relatives overseas should have valid passports," she said.
One other reminder: When you get a new passport, do not store it in the safe deposit box. Emergencies can occur on weekends, when banks are shut.
 
Where to call
 
Automated phone lines for United States passport offices.
Boston: (617) 878-0900
Chicago: (312) 341-6020
*Honolulu: (808) 522-8283
Houston: (713) 751-0294
Los Angeles: (310) 575-5700
Miami: (305) 539-3600
*New Orleans: (504) 412-2600
New York: (212) 206-3500
Philadelphia: (215) 418-5937
San Francisco: (415) 538-2700
Seattle: (206) 808-5700
Stamford, Conn.: (203) 969-9000
Washington: (202) 647-0518
 
* Denotes information line.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2001, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Practical Traveler column on Dec. 31, about passports, misstated the amount of time after expiration that a passport may still be used for a renewal. It is five years, not two, provided the holder was at least 16 years old when the expired passport was issued.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Felipe Galindo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT NEW YORK CENTER (76%); STATE DEPARTMENT (66%); PASSPORT AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT NEW YORK CENTER (76%); STATE DEPARTMENT (66%); PASSPORT AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PASSPORTS PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); WEB SITES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000



845 of 845 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5;Page 2;Column 5;Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
How to Avoid Passport Woes

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
HERE'S a New Year's resolution for you: Avoid last-minute travel hassles by getting out your passport. If it expires anytime in 2001, renew now, while the process is quick and involves no surcharge.
If your passport is nearing the end of 10 years, you may be surprised by recent changes in the renewal system. First, unless you have a ticket for overseas travel within 14 days, or require visas for a trip leaving not much later, you cannot renew in person, but only by mail. Everywhere but Hawaii and New Orleans, those who qualify for in-person renewals must get an appointment. Second, you no longer need to go to a post office for a form; you can find one on the State Department's Web site, www.travel.state.gov and probably print it out at home. Third, on Feb. 1, 1998, the age limit on a youth passport changed again, and young people may use a renewal form rather than a new-passport form if they got their previous passports when they were at least 16 -- not 18. 

Delays Expected in New York
There is an additional caution for people in the New York Passport Region. In early February, machinery to digitize passport photos is scheduled to arrive at the New York Center at 376 Hudson Street. While it is being installed, which may take a couple of weeks, daily appointments will be reduced, possibly by half.
For this reason, William Collins Jr., who retired this weekend after almost 10 years as director of the New York Passport Region, strongly urged those who have expirations in the next three months to renew by mail now because if a travel emergency develops during the changeover, the center may be unable to help.
A passport of any vintage, from weeks old to 12 years -- that is, expired no more than two years -- may be renewed at will. If you have a passport photo you'd like to replace, and are able to pay for the privilege, the State Department can oblige.
These are the fees: For a regular renewal, $40; for a new passport, which must be submitted in person at a post office or court, $60, which is $45 for the passport, $15 for the execution fee; for a five-year passport for a child 15 or under, $40. For expedited service, $35 extra for any type of passport. With a ticket to travel within 14 days, three-day service may be available at an agency; by mail, expedited renewal may take five to seven days, according to Ann M. Barrett, acting managing director of Passport Services in Washington. Acceptance places for first passports are listed on the Web site or in the blue pages of phone books, under "passport acceptance facilities."
People who are leaving in three to four weeks and find their passports are running out -- many countries will not accept passports with less than six months to go -- are between a rock and a bureaucracy. If they are near a passport office, they can wait until the 14-day limit for appointments, or alternatively, they can deliver the application to an acceptance window or passport agency now with Express Mail postage attached, a $35 fee for expedited help, and return Express Mail postage inside.
The State Department says that regular mail applications take 25 days for the round trip. Mail renewal applications should go to Post Office Box 371971, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15262.
There are 13 regular passport agencies in the United States, plus one for diplomatic and other no-fee passports. The 13 agencies and their automated phone numbers are listed in the adjacent box and on the Web site. You will need a touch-tone phone to work these systems. Except for Honolulu and New Orleans, the regular agencies now work by phone appointment only, serving only people with tickets for travel soon, mostly within 14 days, although Chicago and Washington set the limit at 21 days. The Honolulu and New Orleans offices will be going to appointments-only soon, Ms. Barrett says.
Mr. Collins devised the appointment-only system, and New York was the first to shift, in 1996. The next year, the New York agency moved to a Federal building in SoHo, upstairs from the Houston Street stop of the No. 1 and 9 trains of the IRT. Security in the Passport Agency lobby includes screening of bags and parcels by uniformed personnel. There is an information window and a bank of house phones giving access to automated lines to seek an appointment, but no chairs. Those with appointments cannot go upstairs ahead of their appointment hour.
In the 10th-floor offices, there are chairs for people waiting for their numbers to be called, and even a couple of toilets and pay phones: these are improvements over the old offices in Rockefeller Center. On a recent visit, there were many children, including one newborn so tiny her mother held her on the counter ledge while an agent went over the application. The director said the office gets many children, particularly as summer approaches and they prepare to stay with grandparents in an immigrant's home country. A child gets his or her own passport, even traveling with a parent, because emergencies may require one to travel without the other.
 
More Passports Than Ever
The New York office handles 350 to 400 people a day in this season; that will rise to 700 in April, May and June; extra windows are opened and employees shifted.
There are now more passports in use than ever before in United States history: the State Department estimates the total at 50 million; in 1998, the figure was 45 million and in 1992, 33 million. In the fiscal year that just ended, 7.3 million passports were issued, of which less than 20 percent were renewals. Ms. Barrett said that the excellent economy was encouraging travel and bringing in first-time applicants. Also, she said, newly naturalized citizens want passports to visit relatives in the old home. The majority of the others were new passports. The total for new passports surpassed that for renewals in 1995, and there it has stayed.
Passports are not needed for travel to Mexico or Canada, Americans' two major destinations, but Ms. Barrett said that the government encouraged everyone to get one, for its value as a document recognized worldwide, and for its use in emergencies. "All citizens with relatives overseas should have valid passports," she said.
One other reminder: When you get a new passport, do not store it in the safe deposit box. Emergencies can occur on weekends, when banks are shut.
 
Where to call
 
Automated phone lines for United States passport offices.
Boston: (617) 878-0900
Chicago: (312) 341-6020
*Honolulu: (808) 522-8283
Houston: (713) 751-0294
Los Angeles: (310) 575-5700
Miami: (305) 539-3600
*New Orleans: (504) 412-2600
New York: (212) 206-3500
Philadelphia: (215) 418-5937
San Francisco: (415) 538-2700
Seattle: (206) 808-5700
Stamford, Conn.: (203) 969-9000
Washington: (202) 647-0518
 
* Denotes information line.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2001, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Practical Traveler column on Dec. 31, about passports, misstated the amount of time after expiration that a passport may still be used for a renewal. It is five years, not two, provided the holder was at least 16 years old when the expired passport was issued.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Felipe Galindo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CENTER (76%); STATE DEPARTMENT (66%); PASSPORT AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CENTER (76%); STATE DEPARTMENT (66%); PASSPORT AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); WEB SITES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000

 
