

1001 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IF THEY CAN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Change Is Landing In Old Hands

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD. 
John Harwood is co-author with Gerald F. Seib of ''Pennsylvania Avenue: Profiles in Backroom Power,'' published this year by Random House.

 BODY:
AS he sought the presidency for the last two years, Barack Obama liked to say that ''change doesn't come from Washington -- change comes to Washington.''
 Nearly three weeks after his election, he is testing voters' understanding of that assertion as he assembles a government whose early selections lean heavily on veterans of the political era he ran to supplant. He showed that in breathtaking fashion by turning to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, his bitter primary rival and the wife of the last Democratic president, for the post of secretary of state.
 Mr. Obama will bring pieces of Chicago to the White House in the form of longtime advisers like Valerie Jarrett and David Axelrod. But even after vowing to turn the page on the polarized politics of the baby boom generation, he's made clear that service in the Beltway wars of the last 20 years is not only acceptable, but in some cases necessary for his purposes. 
 At the same time, it raises a question: Could the 47-year-old president-elect ultimately find himself pulled toward the Washington folkways he has vowed to surmount? 
 In Mrs. Clinton's case, the president-elect was bringing a formidable former rival into his camp, evidently calculating that her political constituency, brains and experience in the White House and Senate outweighed the fact that she had been on what he considered the wrong side in voting to authorize the Iraq war. In office, he would rely on her toughness to execute his diplomatic initiatives -- some of which, she argued during the Democratic primaries, would be naive and ill advised.
 The same preference for battle-tested stature was evident in his selection of Tom Daschle to lead the charge for health care reform as health and human services secretary. As the second-ranking Senate Democrat, Mr. Daschle had an up-close look at how President Bill Clinton's drive for universal coverage fell apart in the early 1990s. 
 Mr. Obama's top candidate for attorney general, Eric Holder, lived through the turbulence at the Clinton Justice Department; his leading prospect for budget director, Peter Orszag, now in the Congressional Budget Office, has seen the partisan budget skirmishes of the Clinton and Bush years. His chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, worked in the Clinton White House to achieve passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement that Mr. Obama, as a candidate, criticized. His choice for Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, is seen as a new-generation choice over Larry Summers, Treasury secretary under Mr. Clinton; still, Mr. Geithner worked at Treasury under three presidents, including Mr. Clinton.
 But advisers to Mr. Obama say he is not undercutting his vision of change. Instead, they say, he has concluded that those experiences can be marshaled to improve his odds of achieving his own goals. 
 ''He's not looking for people to give him a vision,'' said Mr. Axelrod, who will be a senior White House adviser. ''He's going to put together an administration of people who can effectuate his vision.''
 That breezy formulation disregards the received wisdom of Pennsylvania Avenue. For years, Washington insiders have used the phrase ''personnel is policy'' for the assumption that the prior loyalties and political tastes of a president's cabinet and White House staff heavily influence what those appointees are eager, or able, to get done. 
 Because he personally embodies historic change, Mr. Obama has considerable latitude to eschew symbolic gestures in choosing subordinates. But he also has little choice but to lean on the Clinton presidency's infrastructure.
 In winning 7 of 10 presidential elections from 1968 to 2004, Republicans accumulated and continually replenished a cadre of experienced executive branch officials. Even reform-minded Democrats acknowledge the need for such expertise in a government that has grown increasingly complex, and especially in managing America's role in the global economy of the 21st century. In the last generation, the only Democratic administration aside from Mr. Clinton's was that of Jimmy Carter, whom some still fault for relying on an inexperienced inner circle from Georgia.
 ''You have to be either very young or naive to believe change begins with erasing the slate,'' said William Galston, a top Clinton domestic policy aide who remains outside Mr. Obama's circle. ''The world doesn't work that way. The way to ensure that nothing changes is to place people in positions of authority who are incapable of effecting change -- whatever their good intentions may be.'' 
 Mr. Obama, he added, is ''placing an extremely high premium on actually getting the job done.''
 That doesn't answer the question of what the job actually is. Using the ''personnel is policy'' formulation, some Republicans hope that the combination of Clinton veterans and Mr. Obama's pledge of bipartisan comity foreshadows centrist compromise on national problems that have long appeared intractable.
 ''The next couple of years are going to go to the pragmatists,'' said Senator Mel Martinez of Florida, a former Republican Party chairman. ''The problems we are facing are not amenable to ideological solutions.''
 In his health care proposal, to take one notable example, Mr. Obama has opened the door to a cross-party conversation by omitting a government mandate for universal coverage. That earned him attacks from Mrs. Clinton and John Edwards during the Democratic primaries, but avoids one ideological poison pill that Republicans would otherwise target.
 Yet some Obama advisers and allies caution against projecting outcomes from the president-elect's style or appointments -- which include transition team members with ties to the lobbying industry that Mr. Obama condemned on the campaign trail. Just as a new manager can improve the won-loss record of a baseball team with familiar players, an Obama spokesman, Robert Gibbs, argued, a new chief executive can produce different results on Pennsylvania Avenue.
 In that view, Mr. Obama could adopt Clintonites without Clintonism -- at least the incremental Clintonism that marked the former president's second term.
 ''Barack Obama never offered himself as an ideologue -- he's a pragmatist and a problem solver,'' Mr. Axelrod explained. But he added: ''We are not living in a time that allows for incrementalism. His goal is to form bipartisan consensus. I don't think that goal is more important than achieving a result.''
 That mindset helps explain the distinction between Mr. Obama's post-election phase, so far at least, and Mr. Clinton's after he defeated the first President Bush in 1992.
 In response to federal deficits, President-elect Clinton sidetracked plans for a middle-class tax cut and disappointed some liberal supporters. As the journalist John Harris recounts in ''The Survivor,'' the ''bells of hope'' that Mr. Clinton's team called for across the land on the eve of his inauguration drew a sour response from the columnist Mary McGrory: ''The bell-ringing seemed a little pretentious to hail great change -- when the evidence mounts that there will be precious little.''
 Notwithstanding the economic crisis and the unplanned $700 billion federal bailout this fall, Mr. Obama has given no indication yet that he's scaling back his plans for expanding health coverage, cutting taxes for the middle class and raising them for investors, or investing in alternative energy and infrastructure.
 ''We are at a moment that is not familiar to Washington, of learning the difference between a transactional president and a transformational one,'' said Andy Stern, a labor leader who in recent years helped fracture the A.F.L.-C.I.O. to create a breakaway ''Change to Win'' union federation. ''What Barack Obama has created by this campaign was not only the idea that we can do big things -- but we have to do big things.''
 To that end, Mr. Obama aims to mobilize his army of donors and volunteers to sustain political pressure and prevent either the administration or the Democratic Congress from faltering. Aides acknowledge the potential for disappointment if backers conclude that Washington's version of change becomes ''Not so fast'' or ''No, we can't.''
 ''There's certainly going to be consternation about a lot of decisions that he makes, and understandably so,'' said Mr. Obama's deputy campaign manager, Steve Hildebrand, who's expected to play a role in mobilizing the Obama forces. ''They're not just going to roll over and do whatever Barack Obama tells them.''
 At the same time, allies say, Mr. Obama and his new team don't plan to roll over for conventional notions of what's possible in Washington -- whatever they've done in the past.
 ''It's not just the left that demands real change -- it's the average middle-class American,'' concluded Senator Charles Schumer of New York, who has led the effort to swell the ranks of Senate Democrats in the last two elections. ''Rahm Emanuel knows how much change is needed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOGETHER: The president-elect and his prospective top diplomat, last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK1)
 RESERVED: Familiar faces will be at the table. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1002 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Solace? You'll Find Little in the Bond Market

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
WHEN your safe haven comes under attack, you're really in trouble. But that's what has happened this year to many investors, as some bond portfolios have taken enormous hits.
 It's bad enough that the stock market has plummeted. Even with a late-day rally on Friday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is down more than 45 percent for the year to date. Stocks have not declined that much in a full year since 1931. 
 But bonds? They're supposed to be the Steady Eddies of a well-diversified portfolio -- safe, boring and a necessary part of an investor's diet, like spinach. The excitement -- and risk -- in a portfolio should come from stocks. If bonds fluctuate at all, they are expected to rise in value when stocks decline, buffering a portfolio's returns in a rocky market. That, at least, is the common expectation, said Robert L. Rodriguez, chief executive of First Pacific Advisors and co-manager of the FPA New Income mutual fund. 
 But the global credit crisis has shattered the expectations of many investors in fixed-income as well as equity markets. With forced liquidations of bond holdings still under way by major institutions in the wake of the Lehman Brothers failure in September, even the slightest whiff of risk in a bond has put off investors, resulting in big losses. And bonds are certainly not a sideshow: Much of the turmoil in the financial sector and the overall economy has emanated from the credit markets.
 So far, only the most unimpeachably safe fixed-income securities -- for the most part, those issued by the Treasury or otherwise backed by the United States government, directly or indirectly -- have generally held their value. ''Investors are confused, and they have a lot of misconceptions,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''You have to get to the basic question, and that is, which bonds do you actually own?''
 Long-term corporate bonds, for example, declined in value by more than 18 percent, on average, through October, according to Ibbotson Associates, a Morningstar subsidiary. That's worse than any full-year decline on its records going back to 1926.
 The rout in corporate bonds, particularly high-yield or junk bonds, has been worse, by some measures, than even the distressed market of the Great Depression, said William H. Gross, co-chief investment officer of the Pacific Investment Management Company. Junk-bond yields -- which move in the opposite direction of prices -- recently soared above 20 percent. 
 ''These are unheard-of, unseen yields that have never taken place in anyone's lifetime,'' said Mr. Gross, who manages Pimco Total Return, the country's largest bond fund. ''Even during the Depression, corporate bonds did not trade at these particular yield spreads,'' or premiums over yields of comparable Treasuries, Mr. Gross added. 
 On the positive side, long-term government funds tracked by Morningstar were up 9.2 percent for the year through Thursday. 
 But in many parts of the market, the returns for bond mutual funds are sobering, with performances that would be abysmal even for stock funds in a typical year. High-yield bond funds were down 29.6 percent for the year through Thursday, emerging-market bond funds were off 26.5 percent, and bank loan funds were down 24.7 percent. Even intermediate-term bond funds, a middle-of-the-road category often used as a core holding for portfolio balancing, were down 9 percent. 
 This is no typical year, however. Not by a long shot. 
 ''Never before, in 25 years, have I seen conditions like this,'' said Mary J. Miller, the director of T. Rowe Price's fixed-income division. ''It's not just credit risk,'' she said. ''Some parts of the market are liquidity-impaired -- there just aren't enough buyers out there.''
 Municipal bonds have been ''considerably punished,'' she said, because of a lack of buyers and the ''acute risk aversion'' that has permeated the market. Most municipal bonds are, in fact, creditworthy, she said, but their prices have gone down anyway. The loss of independent firms that functioned as market makers -- like Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Wachovia -- has disrupted markets, she said, and so has the continued unwinding of leveraged bets, often packaged as complex derivatives, taken by hedge funds. 
 Mr. Gross of Pimco described the wave of selling by hedge funds as akin to ''a margin call'' in which bond holders are forced to sell securities at lower and lower prices.
 Still, some bond funds marketed as core holdings for buy-and-hold investors have held their own this year. In the current market, that means not losing much money, and, in some cases, maybe gaining just a little. These funds include Pimco Total Return, which was down 0.3 percent through Thursday;, the Vanguard Total Bond index fund, up 0.9 percent; the T. Rowe Price New Income fund, down 2.3 percent; and FPA New Income up 3.7 percent. All of these funds are highly rated by both Morningstar and Lipper. 
 This modest performance was possible because these funds did not dabble much, if at all, in risky areas of the market, said Jeff Tjornehoj, senior research analyst for Lipper. ''Funds that did well in up-markets by taking on risk have been punished now,'' he said.
 There are many ways of minimizing risk. The Vanguard Total Bond index fund is passively managed, and mirrors what until recently was known as the Lehman Aggregate Bond index -- and is now called the Barclay's Aggregate Bond index, as a consequence of Barclay's absorption of Lehman's bond analysts and indexes. Treasuries within the index gained in value while corporate bonds fell, and the results have been ''about what you might have expected from a core holding,'' said Fran Kinniry, who runs the investment strategy group at Vanguard.
 FPA New Income has taken a different approach, holding large quantities of cash and Treasuries, and keeping the average duration -- essentially, the time before a security matures -- down to about one year. Reducing duration cuts down on the risk of shifts in yields and inflation expectations. 
 Pimco has taken another tack, by buying Treasuries and investing in fixed-income securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants that have been bailed out by the federal government. ''We've essentially made ourselves partners'' of the government, Mr. Gross said. 
 Mr. Gross is taking a similar approach, he said, with investments in the preferred shares of bank holding companies in which the Treasury is injecting capital. With a shortage of liquidity, and an epidemic of risk-aversion, he said, it makes sense ''to buy something where you can partner with Uncle Sam as opposed to being left out in the cold.''
 With commodity prices declining and the Consumer Price Index dropping in October by the greatest amount on record, there are signs of disinflation, perhaps even the possibility of a cycle of declining prices, known as deflation. Bond strategists caution, however, that the current outlook for inflation has been made murky by the attempts of the Federal Reserve, and of central banks and governments around the world, to pump money into the financial system in an effort to strengthen the global economy.
 For Mr. Rodriguez, this is a major concern, and further reason to minimize all of his bets. ''We may be facing deflation first, and then inflation down the road,'' he said. ''This is a very difficult time.'' 
 Mr. Gross said that for months to come, he expects the bond market to be struggling to evaluate the risks of both deflation and inflation. ''It's a legitimate debate,''he said, ''and we don't have any clear view as to which one wins.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about turmoil in the bond market misstated the new name for the Lehman Aggregate Bond index. It is the Barclays Capital Aggregate Bond index, not the Barclay's Aggregate Bond index.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker outside the London office of Lehman Brothers. The firm's collapse forced liquidations of bond holdings by major institutions -- and investors became wary of many classes of bonds.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WINNING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (61%); FIRST PACIFIC ADVISORS INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1003 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: November 23, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 TIBETAN DELEGATES BACK
 Dalai Lama on China
 A majority of delegates attending a conference of Tibetan exiles in northern India recommended that the Tibetan government in exile continue to adopt the Dalai Lama's conciliatory approach to China. But in a sign of mounting frustration over talks, most delegates also advised the government to end the dialogue until China shows real willingness to negotiate. PAGE 17
 REAL REBUILDING IN IRAQ
 It appears that some of the lessons that reconstruction watchdogs have been expounding on for years are being taken to heart in Iraq. The central question now is whether those epiphanies have come too late to do more than isolated good for Iraqis looking for improved services and infrastructure in their ramshackle, war-ravaged country. PAGE 20 
 CARTER VISIT REFUSED
 President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe refused to allow a humanitarian visit to the country by former President Jimmy Carter; Kofi Annan, the former secretary general of the United Nations; and Graca Machel, an advocate for women and the wife of Nelson Mandela. ''It seems obvious to me that leaders of the government are immune to reaching out for help for their own people,'' Mr. Carter said. PAGE 8
 NATIONAL
 MICHIGAN'S PROBLEMS 
 Go Beyond Auto Industry
 The problems in Detroit are well documented, but for Michigan, the economic bad news does not stop there. The furniture building, tourism, retail trade and construction industries are also ailing, and waves of layoffs are sweeping towns across the state. As a result of the steady job losses that began in the summer of 2000, close to 20 percent of the population is now on some form of public assistance. PAGE 23
 A CLASH WITH DEEP ROOTS
 The roots of the clash between Representatives Henry A. Waxman and John D. Dingell that led to Mr. Dingell's removal as chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee go back decades and have both personal and substantive causes. And when a truce was proposed to avoid the pivotal confrontation, both men said no. A Congressional Memo. PAGE 26
 SENSITIVE TO HIGH PAY
 In the week since The Chronicle of Higher Education published its annual survey of university presidents' pay -- another week of dismal economic news -- several of the highest-paid presidents announced that they would give back part of their pay or forgo their raises. ''I wanted to let the community know that I'm sensitive to the situation,'' said Mark S. Wrighton, the chancellor of Washington University in St. Louis. PAGE 23
 OBITUARIES
 BETTE S. GARBER, 65
 Among the small but lively fraternity of photojournalists who specialize in documenting trucks and truckers, Ms. Garber was considered the foremost in the country. Her work helped bring an overlooked, often marginalized segment of the American work force to wider public attention. PAGE 35
 NEW YORK
 AS GREENWICH SINKS,
 Talk Turns to Houses
 Greenwich, Conn., has seen tough real estate markets before, and is certainly experiencing one now. It's an item of faith in town that Greenwich is the last market to go down and the first to come back. But some people wonder whether things will be different after the next comeback. Peter Applebome, Our Towns. PAGE 32
 MAKING THE RIGHT CHOICE
 The last time a New York governor had to fill a vacant seat in the United States Senate, after the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy in 1968, he got some advice: Pick ''an alert, modern, creative intellectual leader -- a rare commodity in this party of ours.'' Must have been. It took Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller almost three months to name someone. PAGE 34
 SPORTS
 LINEMEN ARE FORCE
 Driving the Jets
 Brett Favre's may be the popular choice as the face of the Jets' resurgence. But the true movers behind the team's turnaround are the offensive and defensive linemen, in particular two veterans who arrived with numerous Pro Bowl appearances on their resumes: guard Alan Faneca and defensive tackle Kris Jenkins. Aaron Schatz, Keeping Score. PAGE 10
 Book Review
 TAKING A LOOK
 Into the Minds of Swarms
 In ''The Superorganism,'' Bert Holldobler and Edward O. Wilson suggest that it makes more sense to look at, say, a hive of bees not as a swarm of workers, drones and a queen, but as distinct parts of one big creature, with certain insects acting as eyes and ears, others acting as genitals and still others functioning as an immune system. PAGE 10
 TURF WARS
 Michael Rosenberg's ''War As They Knew It'' chronicles how the epic football rivalry between Michigan and Ohio State played out over the backdrop of the Vietnam War and the civil unrest of the '60s and '70s. While Bo Schembechler's Michigan teams managed to accommodate the social protests of the time, Woody Hayes, his rival at Ohio State and a friend of Richard Nixon, believed that hippies were nothing short of an existential threat. PAGE 22 
 The Magazine
 IF YOU LIKED THIS,
 You're Gonna Love That
 Across the globe, basement hackers and amateur mathematicians are competing to improve the program that Netflix uses to recommend DVDs -- and to win $1 million in the process. First, they need to solve an enduring human mystery: Why do we like what we like? PAGE 74 
 MOMENTS THAT MATTERED
 Twelve writers, directors and bloggers describe the year's most memorable clips, scenes, shows, videos and computer graphics. PAGE 70
 Arts & Leisure
 HOW AXL ROSE SPENT
 All This Time
 Guns N' Roses had not released an album since the first Bush administration, and after 17 years of false starts and $13 million, the hard-rock band (composed of new parts) has finally put out its long-awaited album ''Chinese Democracy.'' So was it worth the wait? Jon Pareles writes that it is the Titanic of rock albums -- and he does not mean the film. PAGE 1
 Travel
 TOURING CHEESE COUNTRY 
 In Spain, Mind the Bats
 As tag lines go, ''Land of Cheese'' is a rather appealing one. Asturias, in northern Spain, is a noteworthy stop for those fans of all things fermented, aged and dairy in nature, particularly Cabrales, a blue cow's cheese named for the town in which it was first made. In a cave serving as a place for the cheese to age, watch your step, and don't wake up the bats. Page 7 
 THESE HOLIDAYS, BE READY
 Well, it's that time of year again, turkeys, cranberry sauce, stories about guys with hats and shoes on their buckles. Oh, and the headache that holiday travel can turn into. But there are some ways to cut down on the effects, aside from aspirin. Be prepared and know your rights as a traveler, because nobody wants to be late to visit the in-laws, right? Page 6 
 A Nicer Gordon Ramsay? 4 
 Sunday Business
 NO STRINGS ATTACHED 
 To Bailout, and It Shows
 When the Treasury gave billions of taxpayers' dollars to the nation's banks, it asked them to lend to small businesses, home buyers and other worthy borrowers to keep the economy's gears in motion. But it didn't contain any requirements that banks do so, and unless the government puts serious pressure on the banks to start lending, the value of assets used as collateral will fall as individuals and institutions everywhere are forced to sell. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. 
 LAWYERS WANTED ABROAD
 Many large American law firms have long had a presence in other countries. But as the economic downturn continues to cause upheaval in corporate America and the law firms that serve it, many firms are relying on their international outposts to keep profits up -- and a growing number of lawyers are starting to look overseas for work. Above, Evan Jowers, a recruiter for Kinney Recruiting, checks his blackberry in the Four Seasons Hotel business center in Hong Kong. 
 PAGE1
 Recruiting in a Recession 11
 Sunday Styles
 AT LONG LAST, 
 The Bidens Go to D.C.
 Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s daily 90-minute train commute to Washington from Wilmington, Del., and back again earned him the nickname ''Amtrak Joe.'' Now that he is the vice president-elect, Mr. Biden, and his wife, Jill, will pack up and move to Washington -- where he has never lived or cultivated a social life despite serving 36 years in the Senate. PAGE 1
 IRONY'S DEAD. AGAIN. 
 Irony, that favorite literary device of cynics and comedians, has been declared dead yet again. Newspapers are using the word less, and satirists are having a tough time finding their footing in the age of Obama. ''Something bad happens, like 9/11, it's the death of irony,'' said the author Colson Whitehead. ''Something good happens, like Obama's win, it's the death of irony. When will someone proclaim the death of iceberg lettuce? I'm sick of it making my salads boring.'' PAGE 1
 Modern Love:
 A Layoff's Romantic Upside 6
 Automobiles
 USING DIESEL TO PAINT
 A Mileage Masterpiece
 The diesel-powered Volkswagen Jetta TDI, which hoards fuel like a mobile Scrooge, is a smart buy for shoppers worried about fuel economy at a time of volatile gas prices. ''I averaged a remarkable 48 m.p.g. over more than 150 miles of freeway driving,'' Lawrence Ulrich writes. ''I never knew that driving a steady 60 m.p.h. could be so gratifying, and I vowed to try it more often.'' PAGE 1 (Page 12 in Sunday Business in some copies)
 Week in Review
 WHEN CHANGE LANDS
 In Old Hands
 Though Barack Obama campaigned on turning the page on Washington's recent past, the selections he has made so far for his incoming administration lean heavily on veterans of the political era he ran to supplant. Could the 47-year-old president-elect ultimately find himself pulled toward the Washington folkways he has vowed to surmount? PAGE 1
 Editorial
 PRICE OF OUR GOOD NAME
 The demands on President-elect Barack Obama will be enormous, from undoing scores of executive orders that have undermined the powers of Congress to rescuing a drowning economy. Still, there is one thing Mr. Obama must do quickly: announce a plan for closing Mr. Bush's outlaw prison at Guantanamo Bay. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 The national economy is in a real Code Red, and addressing the issue can't be put off for two months. Let's convene a special session of Congress, amend the Constitution and move up the inauguration from Jan. 20 to Thanksgiving Day. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 The American government has squandered billions of dollars in Pakistan trying to combat Islamic extremism. Meanwhile, private donations from Pakistani expatriates living in America are quietly financing a more important campaign in the fight against fundamentalism: education. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 ONE WAR, TWO FRONTS
 In Op-Ed articles, seven writers -- Donald H. Rumsfeld, Ahmad Chalabi, Linda Robertson, Peter Mansoor, Rory Stewart, Frederick W. Kagan and Anthony H. Cordesman -- offer the Obama administration advice on handling the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGES 9-11

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); LABOR FORCE (65%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (90%); JIMMY CARTER (75%); JOHN DINGELL (50%); HENRY WAXMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NORTH INDIA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); TIBET (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1004 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Resignation Gives G.O.P. Hope for '09

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
TRENTON
IN the wily world of New Jersey politics, there are no innocuous exits.
Some elected officials leave office in handcuffs, some in a vainglorious bid for higher office. Others join the vast political-industrial complex that allows lobbyists and consultants to cash in their public sector experience for immense private gain.
Given that atmosphere of self-interest and ambition, it comes as little surprise that the resignation of Christopher J. Christie, New Jersey's United States attorney, has been widely interpreted as an inexorable step toward a particularly scathing governor's race next year. 
Mr. Christie, whose success at prosecuting corruption is rivaled only by his ability to attract headlines, made his announcement in yet another triumph of timing: one day before a jury found the former chairman of the State Senate's Budget Committee, Wayne R. Bryant, guilty of bribery and fraud. It was one of the biggest victories the United States attorney's office won during Mr. Christie's seven-year tenure and left him with a staggering record: 132 government officials convicted or pleading guilty, zero acquittals.
Having built a reputation as the state's ethical avenger, Mr. Christie will have an array of tempting career opportunities to choose from after he steps down on Dec. 1, and he says he is still mulling his next move.
But Mr. Christie's fellow Republicans are all but pleading with him to challenge Gov. Jon S. Corzine, who is expected to seek re-election.
At first glance, it must appear tempting.
Governor Corzine, who has tried to address the state's fiscal mess with a host of unpopular measures -- a sales tax increase, steep budget cuts and an unsuccessful plan to sell the New Jersey Turnpike -- finds his approval ratings mired in the low 40s, according to recent polls, territory to make any incumbent queasy.
While Mr. Corzine's Democrats hold a considerable advantage over Republicans in voter registration, organization and fund-raising prowess, their record of higher public debt and higher taxes offers Republicans an opening.
Without even declaring any candidacy, Mr. Christie is widely regarded as the strongest Republican contender.
Even the state's recent political history would appear to give Republicans a glimmer of hope. New Jersey's governor's race occurs the year after a presidential election, and in the past 20 years, the party that lost the bid for the White House won the governorship, so Barack Obama's victory indicates that Republicans are due for a victory in Trenton.
State Republican Chairman Tom Wilson said he had no idea whether Mr. Christie intended to enter the race, but he could not contain his own enthusiasm.
''My optimism that Chris will run is biased only by my optimism that he will run,'' Mr. Wilson said.
The Democrats say they're not worried about a Christie run.
''For a guy who's got nothing but adoring press for seven years, and is unknown to 70 percent of the public, it's not easy to win if you're a single-issue candidate,'' said the state Democratic chairman, Joe Cryan. ''Our feeling is, bring him on.''
With Mr. Christie as the party standard-bearer, Republicans could be expected to put New Jersey's tawdry political culture on trial and cast the party in power as defendant. In addition to pointing out real policy differences with Mr. Corzine, Republicans would also trot out as character witnesses a procession of Democratic officeholders who have left in disgrace or amid scandal: from Mr. Bryant to former Gov. James E. McGreevey.
And while Mr. Corzine has never been accused of corruption, the continuing court battle over his e-mail exchanges with Carla Katz, his former companion and the leader of a public employees' union, could make him vulnerable to an opponent's questions about his judgment and associations.
It's the kind of race New Jersey Republicans have run before, and lost. But with a messenger as substantial as Mr. Christie, and an electorate soured by scandals and frightened by the financial meltdown, it may resonate.
The biggest wild card in any potential matchup would most likely be the troubled economy, which dominated the presidential race. While Mr. Corzine's Wall Street pedigree has been an advantage in previous elections, political analysts say that it is unclear whether it would necessarily trump Mr. Christie's background in law enforcement.
''Wall Street isn't held in the same regard as it was a few year ago,'' said Clay Richards, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. ''And Governor Corzine's attempts to help the state's fiscal problems haven't gone over very well. So where Christie's coming from might be a breath of fresh air in bleak economic times.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher J. Christie (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(NJ5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); JURY TRIALS (75%); BRIBERY (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); SALES TAX (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); LAWYERS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); ACQUITTAL (69%); VERDICTS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (63%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); THOMAS J WILSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011



1005 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; TOWN GREEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: On the Local Level, A Bid to Pool Resources

BYLINE: By LARY BLOOM. 
E-mail: conn@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ON the November day that Gov. M. Jodi Rell glumly announced a state budget deficit of $6 billion over the next two years, Robert M. DeCrescenzo thought, ''Well, now's our time.'' This is the moment, in his view, to change the traditional arithmetic and cultural boundaries of Connecticut. 
 For inspiration, Mr. DeCrescenzo, 51, a former East Hartford mayor and a lawyer whose clients include many municipalities, relied on what may seem an ancient and irrelevant document that he fetched from the State Library: public records of the years 1783 and 1784. On Page 221, the case is made for creating a separate town of the settlement across the Connecticut River from Hartford. The argument back then was that in rough weather, it was impossible for residents to cross the water to attend church or do business, so ''At various Seasons of the Year they Labour under great Burdens...'' As a result, the Town of East Hartford was established by the State Legislature. 
 Mr. DeCrescenzo considered this discovery instructional. Long ago towns were formed because of practical circumstance. Now, of course, there are bridges over the river, and the needs of citizens have greatly changed. He argues, ''Just because separating East Hartford from Hartford 225 years ago was the right thing to do then, it doesn't mean that for the next 225 years we have to do things the same way as we're doing them now.'' And so he has found a new tack to address an old and touchy subject in the Land of Steady Habits: regionalization.
 Like his pro-regionalization comrades over the years, he has pointed out that Connecticut is the national example of governmental redundancy. In a land mass roughly the size of San Diego County, it has 169 towns, 169 fire departments, 169 library systems, 169 building inspection departments, and so on. 
 We do love our towns -- and it's an ethic that makes this state unlike any other in terms of cultural intimacy. But, as we approach an economic crisis point, our fiercely independent communities are headed for a financial perfect storm. The tax base remains flat while expenses rise. Citizens have shown their disdain for higher property taxes, which rank among the most burdensome in the nation. And our towns can't reasonably look for anything close to the customary help from the state, which suffers from its own problems. 
 The consuming question of the moment: Can we find more economical ways to do the business of local government without giving up that strong sense of individual place and without ceding the political power to make critical decisions at the local level? Mr. DeCrescenzo's answer is yes. 
 He draws lessons from his rich East Hartford childhood -- rich in the sense of community, down in the neighborhood of postwar homes built for less than $5,000, where working-class folks felt they had a greater need for money than the government did. It was the latter's job to provide the basics: plow the roads, build and run good schools, keep the streets safe from crime. 
 In Mr. DeCrescenzo's view, those tasks and a few others must remain the essence of local autonomy. And surely, there is nothing wrong with having 169 Memorial Day parades. But when it comes to the less public activities, he argues that it's time for Connecticut to join the rest of the innovative world.
 How many residents would object, he asks, if the human resource function of municipalities is handled on a regional basis? Or tax collecting, or the accounts receivable function, or building inspections or animal control? Mr. DeCrescenzo's ideas also go well beyond the regional -- to the global. If, for example, your car hits a pothole, in Mr. DeCrescenzo's scenario, your call of complaint could be answered in southern India. The woman at the other end of the line would start the process to initiate the local road repair.
 Putting the plan in effect could get complicated, given the realities of collective bargaining, the difficulties facing urban schools and the lack of political will to change. But Mr. DeCrescenzo has answers. For one thing, he does not call for extensive layoffs -- attrition, he argues, will do most of the downsizing. For another, he says that as a culture we are ready for such change because it's happening all around us -- in our homes and the places where we work. (Even the prestigious Hartford firm that employs him -- Updike, Kelly and Spellacy -- outsources the management of its files and documents.)
 He wants to build on precedents of cooperation: in 1985, 33 towns in the capital area closed their incinerators and joined the effort to make a trash-to-energy plant possible (37 more have joined since), and in 1995 several communities near Hartford pooled resources to install computers in police cars -- an effort in which he, as a mayor, had participated. 
 On the morning after Governor Rell's dire announcement, Mr. DeCrescenzo drove from his house in Glastonbury (a mile from his old East Hartford neighborhood) to a panel discussion on regionalization at the University of Hartford. The event was timely and instructive. (One memorable line: ''You can't starve local governments into innovation,'' from Lyle D. Wray, executive director of the Capitol Region Council of Governments.)
 Nevertheless, the choir was preaching to the choir. The new message needs to come from on high -- the way former Gov. Lowell P. Weicker sold his bold and controversial income tax. And it has to happen soon, before Connecticut becomes the Land of Steady Debits. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DOWNSIZING: East Hartford's ex-mayor, Robert M. DeCrescenzo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANA SURECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LIBRARIES (70%); ETHICS (70%); POLITICS (67%); PROPERTY TAX (65%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1006 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: President Looks Back In Goodbye From Peru

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru 

 BODY:
An unfamiliar emotion -- wistfulness -- is settling in over President Bush and his White House.
 As the sun sets on his administration, Mr. Bush is spending the weekend in this city on a cliff where the sun sets, spectacularly, over the Pacific. It is his last scheduled foreign trip (there is some betting he will make another visit to Iraq) and it features a forward-looking official agenda: the meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, where Mr. Bush delivered an impassioned plea on Saturday for free trade and free markets.
 But the unofficial agenda is, simply, a presidential goodbye. 
 Mr. Bush engaged in an unusually sentimental look back over his presidency in a speech here on Saturday morning, beginning with the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks: ''I remember the flag flying from every fire truck in Montreal, Canada. I remember children kneeling in silent prayer outside our embassy in Seoul. I remember baseball players in Japan observing moments of silence.'' He continued: ''The bonds of unity we felt then remain today, and they will always remain.''
 Mr. Bush has never been one for introspection; his aides often say he detests ''navel-gazing.'' He arrived in Washington eight years ago with a kind of Texas swagger and quickly earned a reputation for a go-it-alone style of ''cowboy diplomacy'' that infuriated much of the rest of the world. Now, as he leaves office, amid two wars, a grave economic crisis and historically low job approval ratings, Mr. Bush seems a changed man, offering occasional hints he is reflecting about the world he leaves behind.
 ''I've worked hard on a lot of fronts,'' he told America TV, a Peruvian news outlet, in an interview in the White House Map Room before leaving Washington. ''I have given it my all. And now I am very hopeful that the man who succeeds me as president of the United States succeeds in his job.''
 Mr. Bush's aides bristled at talk of Peru as a lame-duck farewell tour. 
 ''This is a serious meeting, it is not a farewell,'' Dan Price, the president's chief economics adviser for international affairs, said last week. ''Lame duck, low approval ratings -- I think that completely misses the point.''
 Yet on the way to Lima on Air Force One, another foreign policy adviser to Mr. Bush, Dennis Wilder, was talking in past tense, reviewing Mr. Bush's efforts in the region. ''I think he would say that he worked hard to understand this region, worked hard to build really strong relationships with leaders,'' Mr. Wilder said.
 The president has long been an avid practitioner of personal diplomacy, and here in Lima he seems almost sorry to break off some of his relationships. Just hours after arriving on Friday, he confessed to President Hu Jintao of China that he was already ''feeling a little nostalgic'' about their last meeting as heads of state. Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada told Mr. Bush on Saturday that he wished him ''all the best'' if they did not see each other before Jan. 20, when Barack Obama is sworn in. 
 ''Before forced retirement,'' Mr. Bush shot back.
 Nostalgia aside, Mr. Bush is still not above delivering a poke in the eye to leaders with whom he disagrees. Case in point: President Dimitri A. Medvedev of Russia, who sent troops into Georgia over the summer. Hours before Mr. Bush was to meet Mr. Medvedev on Saturday, the White House issued a statement celebrating the fifth anniversary of the Rose Revolution in Georgia, in which a pro-Western government that the Kremlin loathed came to power, as ''one of the most inspiring chapters in the history of freedom.''
 As presidential goodbye trips go, the Lima visit -- just two nights away from the White House -- is strikingly low key. 
 Initially, there was talk at the White House that the president would visit Brazil and Colombia as part of this final swing. But Mr. Bush saw the Brazilian president at last week's global economic summit meeting in Washington. And with Democrats in Congress blocking adoption of Mr. Bush's free trade pact with Colombia, Mr. Bush could not exactly take a victory lap there. 
 Bill Clinton trotted the globe late into his presidency. In December 2000, Mr. Clinton had a stormy meeting in Northern Ireland with lawmakers who opposed a peace accord he forged there. One month before that, Mr. Clinton took a five-day tour of Asia, including a historic trip to Vietnam, where he stood on the edge of a rice paddy and watched, his eyes welled up with tears, as laborers sifted through dirt to search for the remains of an American serviceman.
 There are unlikely to be any such overt expressions of emotion from Mr. Bush. His Lima itinerary is devoid of any cultural excursions; in addition to Saturday's speech, his schedule consists of meetings with fellow world leaders, a gala dinner Saturday night, and a drop-in at the United States Embassy.
 On Monday in Washington, Mr. Bush will be back to saying goodbye, this time to Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel, who is stepping down amid corruption allegations and whose approval ratings are even worse than Mr. Bush's. Mr. Bush once had hopes of presiding over a peace agreement that would lead to the creation of a Palestinian state; the White House now concedes that this is highly unlikely. 
 Instead, said its press secretary, Dana M. Perino, the two leaders will talk about ''the path forward'' in the next two months.
 ''I'm sure that Prime Minister Olmert will want to talk about old times, but also what the future holds,'' Ms. Perino said. She did not say if Mr. Bush, too, would want to talk about old times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush in Lima, Peru, on Saturday for a meeting that is his last scheduled foreign trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); TERRORISM (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); BASEBALL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (76%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (75%) QUEBEC, CANADA (76%) PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1007 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR TRANSITIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: One Surge Does Not Fit All

BYLINE: By DONALD H. RUMSFELD. 
Donald H. Rumsfeld was the secretary of defense from 2001 to 2006.

 BODY:
THE surge in Iraq has been one of the most impressive military accomplishments in recent years. It has been so successful that the emerging consensus is that what may now be needed in Afghanistan is a similar surge of American forces. President-elect Barack Obama campaigned on his intention to do so, as did his former opponent, John McCain. 
 As one who is occasionally -- and incorrectly -- portrayed as an opponent of the surge in Iraq, I believe that while the surge has been effective in Iraq, we must also recognize the conditions that made it successful. President Bush's bold decision to deploy additional troops to support a broader counterinsurgency strategy of securing and protecting the Iraqi people was clearly the right decision. More important, though, it was the right decision at the right time. 
 By early 2007, several years of struggle had created the new conditions for a tipping point: 
 Al Qaeda in Iraq's campaign of terrorism and intimidation had turned its Sunni base of support against it. The result was the so-called Anbar Awakening in the late summer of 2006, followed by similar awakening movements across Iraq. 
 From 2003 through 2006, United States military forces, under the leadership of Gen. John Abizaid and Gen. George Casey, inflicted huge losses on the Baathist and Qaeda leadership. Many thousands of insurgents, including the Qaeda chief in Iraq, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, were captured or killed and proved difficult to replace. 
 The Iraqi Security Forces had achieved cohesion, improved operational effectiveness and critical mass. By December 2006, some 320,000 Iraqis had been trained, equipped and deployed, producing the forces necessary to help hold difficult neighborhoods against the enemy. By 2007, the surge, for most Iraqis, could have an Iraqi face. 
 And the political scene in Iraq had shifted. Moktada al-Sadr, the firebrand cleric, declared a cease-fire in February 2007. The government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, seated in May 2006, moved against militias and Iranian-backed militias and has imperfectly, but notably, rejected narrow sectarian policies.
 The best indication that timing is everything may be that there had been earlier surges without the same effect as the 2007 surge. In 2005, troop levels in Iraq were increased to numbers nearly equal to the 2007 surge -- twice. But the effects were not as durable because large segments of the Sunni population were still providing sanctuary to insurgents, and Iraq's security forces were not sufficiently capable or large enough.
 The decision to conduct a surge came out of an interagency review in the fall of 2006. By mid-December, as I was leaving the Pentagon, there was a rough consensus in the Defense Department that deploying additional combat brigades to Iraq was the right step. Some military leaders raised reasonable questions about the potential effectiveness of a surge, in part because of a correct concern that military power alone could not solve Iraq's problems. I agreed, and emphasized that a military surge would need to be accompanied by effective diplomatic and economic ''surges'' from other departments and agencies of the American government, and by considerably greater progress from Iraq's elected leaders. 
 During my last weeks in office, I recommended to President Bush that he consider Gen. David Petraeus as commander of coalition forces in Iraq, as General Casey's tour was coming to an end. General Petraeus and his deputy, Gen. Ray Odierno, had the experience and skill to recognize and exploit the seismic shifts that were taking place in Iraq's political landscape. And United States troops had the courage to win the alliance of Iraq's people against a common enemy -- and the benevolence to win their friendship. 
 At the critical moment -- a moment when the Iraqis were able and willing to be part of the surge with the American forces -- the United States surged into Iraq with the right commanders, additional forces and a fresh operational approach rooted in years of on-the-ground experience. Americans can be proud of what has been accomplished in Iraq over the last five-plus years. They should also be impressed by the results of the surge, which, thus far, has outstripped expectations, including mine. 
 President Bush's decision to increase combat troop levels in Iraq in January 2007 sent a clear message that he was determined not to abandon a people to death squads and terrorists. We will need the same commitment to helping the people of Afghanistan succeed, but that does not mean we will achieve it with the same tactics or strategies.
 The way forward in Afghanistan will need to reflect the current circumstances there -- not the circumstances in Iraq two years ago. Additional troops in Afghanistan may be necessary, but they will not, by themselves, be sufficient to lead to the results we saw in Iraq. A similar confluence of events that contributed to success in Iraq does not appear to exist in Afghanistan. 
 What's needed in Afghanistan is an Afghan solution, just as Iraqi solutions have contributed so fundamentally to progress in Iraq. And a surge, if it is to be successful, will need to be an Afghan surge. 
 Left unanswered in the current debate is the critical question of how thousands of additional American troops might actually bring long-term stability to Afghanistan -- a country 80,000 square miles larger than Iraq yet with security forces just one-fourth the size of Iraq's. Afghanistan also lacks Iraq's oil and other economic advantages. It is plagued by the narcotics trade. Its borders are threatened by terrorist sanctuaries in Pakistan. Fractured groups of Pashtun tribesmen on both sides of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border do not yet appear willing to unite and take on the insurgents in their midst, as Arab tribes did in Iraq. 
 Further, Afghanistan has a long history of defeating foreign armies that sought strength in numbers. The Soviet Union tried to occupy Afghanistan with hundreds of thousands of troops -- and withdrew, defeated and broken. More United States troops could raise tensions, particularly in Afghanistan's Pashtun south, where the insurgency is strongest. 
 Only capable indigenous forces can ultimately win an insurgency. Afghan forces, backed by coalition troops, will need to move into the most violent areas to secure and protect the local population, enabling Afghans to cooperate with their government without losing their lives. 
 To do this, the size of the Afghan National Army will need to be increased well beyond its 70,000 or so troops and its training accelerated. More American forces will need to undertake the unglamorous work of embedding with Afghan soldiers as advisers, living and fighting together. Kingpins and senior facilitators in the thriving poppy industry that helps to fuel the insurgency will need to be treated as military targets, as Qaeda and Taliban leaders are. Reconstruction projects should be focused on provinces and towns that are cooperating with the Afghan government, instead of making blanket commitments to increase foreign assistance across Afghanistan and possibly fostering a culture of dependence.
 The current suggestion of ''opening negotiations'' with the Taliban may well win over some low- and mid-level supporters, but if history is any guide, offering the hand of peace to hardened fanatics is not likely to prove successful. Aggressive action against Taliban and Qaeda sanctuaries in Pakistan will need to continue. Pakistani officials will have to isolate any factions in their military and intelligence services that are sympathetic to the Taliban. 
 In a few weeks, the new commander in chief, Barack Obama, will assume the responsibility of leading a nation at a time of war. Time and flexibility are the two constants of military success. In a struggle with an adaptable, thinking enemy, there is no single template for success. More is not always better. One size does not fit all. 
 The singular trait of the American way of war is the remarkable ability of our military to advance, absorb setbacks, adapt and ultimately triumph based upon the unique circumstances of a given campaign. Thus it has been throughout our history. And thus it will be in Iraq and Afghanistan, if we have the patience and wisdom to learn from our successes, and if our leaders have the wherewithal to persevere even when it is not popular to do so. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); AL-QAEDA (68%)

ORGANIZATION: JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (56%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (74%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1008 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR TRANSITIONS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The 'Good War' Isn't Worth Fighting

BYLINE: By RORY STEWART. 
Rory Stewart, a former British Foreign Service officer, is the author of ''The Places in Between'' and ''The Prince of the Marshes.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 AFGHANISTAN does not matter as much as Barack Obama thinks. 
 Terrorism is not the key strategic threat facing the United States. America, Britain and our allies have not created a positive stable environment in the Middle East. We have no clear strategy for dealing with China. The financial crisis is a more immediate threat to United States power and to other states; environmental catastrophe is more dangerous for the world. And even from the perspective of terrorism, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are more lethal. 
 President-elect Obama's emphasis on Afghanistan and his desire to send more troops and money there is misguided. Overestimating its importance distracts us from higher priorities, creates an unhealthy dynamic with the government of Afghanistan and endangers the one thing it needs -- the stability that might come from a patient, limited, long-term relationship with the international community. 
 We invaded intending to attack Al Qaeda and provide development assistance. We succeeded. By 2004, Afghanistan had a stable currency, millions more children in school, a better health system, an elected Parliament, no Al Qaeda and almost no Taliban. All this was achieved with only 20,000 troops and a relatively small international aid budget. 
 When the decision was made to increase troops in 2005, there was no insurgency. But as NATO became increasingly obsessed with transforming the country and brought in more money and troops to deal with corruption and the judiciary, warlords and criminals, insecurity in rural areas and narcotics, it failed. In fact, things got worse. These new NATO troops encountered a fresh problem -- local Taliban resistance -- which has drawn them into a counterinsurgency campaign. 
 More troops have brought military victories but they have not been able to eliminate the Taliban. They have also had a negative political impact in the conservative and nationalistic communities of the Pashtun south and allowed Taliban propaganda to portray us as a foreign military occupation. In Helmand Province, troop numbers have increased to nearly 10,000 today from just 2,000 in 2004. But no inhabitant of Helmand would say things have improved in the last four years. Mr. Obama believes that sending even more troops and money will now bring ''victory'' in Afghanistan. Some of this may be politically driven: a pretense of future benefits appears better than admitting a loss; and because lives are involved, no one wants to write off sunk costs. 
 Nevertheless, these increases are not just wasteful, they are counterproductive. The more costly we make this campaign, the more likely we are to withdraw when another crisis emerges or our attention wanders. Grand investment precipitating a sudden withdrawal repeats the ''Charlie Wilson's War'' effect of 1990, when Afghanistan fell in a moment from spoiled godson to orphan, leaving bankruptcy and chaos behind.
 Further, the more we give, the less influence we have over the Afghan government, which believes we need it more than it needs us. What incentive do Afghan leaders have to reform if their country is allowed to produce 92 percent of the world's heroin and still receive $20 billion of international aid? Are they wrong to think that if they became more stable and law-abiding and wiped out the Taliban we would give them less support? That this is a protection racket where the amount of money one receives is directly proportional to one's ability to threaten trouble? 
 This is certainly the experience of the more stable provinces in central Afghanistan, where leaders talk about the need to set off bombs to receive the assistance given to their wealthier but more dangerous neighbors. A more detached strategic perspective and less aid would give us more leverage. 
 A sudden surge of foreign troops and cash will be unhelpful and unsustainable. It would take 20 successful years to match Pakistan's economy, educational levels, government or judiciary -- and Pakistan is still not stable. Nor, for that matter, are northeastern or northwestern India, despite that nation's great economic and political successes. 
 We will not be able to eliminate the Taliban from the rural areas of Afghanistan's south, so we will have to work with Afghans to contain the insurgency instead. All this is unpleasant for Western politicians who dream of solving the fundamental problems and getting out. They will soon be tempted to give up. 
 It is in our interests for Afghanistan to be more stable in part because it contributes to the stability of the region, and in particular Pakistan. Well-focused, long-term assistance in which we appear a genuine partner, not a frustrated colonial master, could help Afghans achieve this goal. We will be able to create, afford and sustain such a relationship only if we put it in a broader strategic context and limit its scope. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TALIBAN (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); POLITICS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); CORRUPTION (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1009 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Cabinet Talk Aside, Corzine Faces State Crisis

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
THE excited talk about Gov. Jon S. Corzine being a possible choice to head the Treasury Department in the Obama administration has been muted lately. Perhaps the next president's transition team is waiting to see how he handles the economic crisis at home before giving him a shot at managing a national one.
 And that means surviving a gathering fiscal storm while managing a large and diverse group of constituents, all of whom think they have already sacrificed enough in the name of budget balancing. They include a state work force already unhappy about cuts in benefits from a year ago, homeowners worried about rising property taxes, municipalities that count on state aid, a growing number of people who have lost their homes to foreclosures, a rising number of unemployed, and everyone else who looks to Trenton for security. 
 Mr. Corzine will be hearing from all of those groups as he takes on the latest unwelcome news on the state budget front. It came in an appendix to a bond offering by the state on Nov. 12, disclosing that the $400 million gap in the current $33 billion budget that was discovered in the fall has since tripled to $1.2 billion and possibly more. 
 The gap opened up because state revenues are not keeping up with expectations, Mr. Corzine said in a recent interview.
 ''Our tax receipts are falling like a stone,'' is how he put it.
 Mr. Corzine and the state treasury spelled out in the bond prospectus how they were going to find $1.2 billion by June 30, and government officials, who spoke anonymously because they did not want to be assailed by those who could be upset by the cuts, offered some amplification.
 The biggest chunk, $625 million, is to be saved by cutting state agency budgets, the officials said. Department chiefs were called to Trenton on Veterans Day and told that they would have to find the savings.
 Another $200 million was found unspent in last year's budget and will be applied to the gap.
 The officials estimated that $50 million to $100 million more could be saved by freezing purchases of equipment and supplies, another $50 million by freezing grants to projects and municipalities, and the rest through savings in, as the bond offering appendix puts it, ''contracts, procurement and employee costs.''
 ''Employee costs,'' of course, mean jobs and benefits. Besides floating the idea of canceling homeower rebates, the governor recently floated the prospect of state employee layoffs, a topic his staff brought up at a subsequent meeting with union officials. 
 The union leaders left the meeting unimpressed, and unconvinced.
 ''We had one very vague meeting last week at which all of those things -- furloughs, layoffs, et cetera -- were floated to us,'' said Robert Master, legislative and political director for the Communications Workers of America for the Northeast. A C.W.A. local is New Jersey's largest public employee union.
 ''I specifically asked how much they were trying to save in terms of personnel, and at the same time I said: 'I'd like to know what kind of sacrifices you're making? If this is truly the worst, most serious fiscal crisis in 70 years, you can't cut us without asking yourselves and the wealthiest people in the state also to make a sacrifice,' '' Mr. Master said.
 In other words, a tax increase is not a welcome idea in Trenton these days.
 ''A tax increase in this economy would send entirely the wrong signal,'' a ranking member of Mr. Corzine's team said. 
 Former Gov. James E. McGreevey raised taxes to balance his budget, and Mr. Corzine did the same by adding a penny to the sales tax after he took office. The message from the State House was that, with a downturn already biting into taxpayers' earnings and savings, and with an election next year, a tax increase was not an option, the officials said.
 The governor has said he would not follow the examples of some earlier governors and shift his problems to the future, by paying for current expenses with borrowed dollars, for example, or withholding full payments from pension funds.
 While the unions will be rallying for no layoffs without a tax increase on the wealthy, a conservative think tank, the Center for Policy Research of New Jersey, said the governor could force economies down to the municipal level by limiting some aid to cities and towns and school districts.
 ''I think there is a lot of spending at the local level and in the school districts that could be reined in, so a reduction there would not necessarily mean they would have to increase property taxes,'' said Gregg M. Edwards, the center's president.
 ''Besides,'' he added, ''they've all got caps on how much they can raise taxes. So the governor could say, 'Sorry, I can't send you as much, and you're going to have to live with what you get.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BOND ISSUES (87%); BONDS (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); FORECLOSURE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1010 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; HARTFORD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Legislators Looking to Patch Budget Gap

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 PICKING up some cash from unclaimed deposits on bottles and cans is just one of the options officials are considering to help close a $300 million gap in Connecticut's budget.
 The General Assembly is planning a special session on Monday to consider a budget repair package that includes using bottle deposits, tax amnesties and additional spending cuts to solve the shortfall in the current two-year budget. Legislative leaders are not expecting a major battle over the plan because, compared with the looming budget problems, this year's budget gap seems relatively manageable. ''The projected deficits in 2010 and 2011 are so grim, they make the current situation seem relatively minor by comparison,'' said State Senator Martin M. Looney, the New Haven Democrat who is the majority leader.
 The top Republican leader in the State Senate, John P. McKinney of Fairfield, agreed. ''This will be a lot easier than what we'll have to do in the next two years,'' he said. ''We will be facing challenges like we've never seen before.'' 
 Gov. M. Jodi Rell is warning that state tax revenues are plunging as a result of the bad economy. Her budget experts are forecasting potential deficits of $2.6 billion for the fiscal year ending in June 2010 and $3.3 billion in 2011 unless lawmakers agree to major changes in spending or taxes.
 Mrs. Rell, a Republican, has already used her executive authority to order budget cuts of about $180 million from this year's $18.4 billion budget.
 Connecticut does have $1.4 billion in a budget reserve, often called the ''rainy day fund.'' But the governor and lawmakers believe that money is likely to be needed to stave off deficits in the next two years.
 The governor's top budget aide, Robert L. Genuario, said he believed Democratic and Republican legislators would join in ''a cooperative venture'' to patch up the remaining gap in this year's budget.
 The speaker of the State House, James A. Amann, Democrat of Milford, said he also expected the special session to be noncontroversial. ''I don't see a big battle,'' he said, adding the governor's budget repair proposals ''are things that, for the most part, we can agree with.''
 One indication of how much the gloomy fiscal outlook has changed things at the State Capitol is how little debate Mrs. Rell's plan to tap into that fund of unclaimed bottle deposits is sparking. 
 In past budget crises, other governors have proposed using the unclaimed bottle deposits, only to meet stubborn resistance. Those unclaimed five-cent deposits paid by consumers have always gone to beverage distributors, who have fought hard to keep money they say helps offset their recycling costs. State officials estimate unclaimed deposits now amount to more than $14 million a year.
 ''This is a different year,'' explained Representative Denise Merrill, a Mansfield Democrat who is co-chairwoman of the legislature's Appropriations Committee. ''I think we're going to have to be looking everywhere.''
 Mrs. Rell wants legislative approval for another $40 million in spending cuts. She has also proposed a tax amnesty expected to bring in about $40 million in added state revenue. The amnesty would encourage delinquent state taxpayers to pay now to avoid penalties later.
 The governor's plan would also use $157 million in federal money the state now expects to receive under a negotiated settlement of old Medicaid claims.
 Municipalities would be allowed to offer local tax amnesties to increase their revenue, under Mrs. Rell's program. She also wants to let groups of cities and towns use the state contracting system to buy goods and services at lower rates than they would get under individual contracts.
 One potential sticking point, Mr. Amann said, involves Mrs. Rell's plan to revise deadlines for binding arbitration decisions on disputes between municipalities and public employee unions. The governor believes quicker decisions would help cities and towns reduce costs.
 Mr. Amann is worried that Republicans might use that proposal as a platform for major changes in binding arbitration they believe would offer major financial relief to municipalities.
 But Mr. McKinney and other Republican leaders said they were not expecting that would happen in this limited special session. ''My instincts are that this isn't the time or the place to have that debate,'' Mr. McKinney said.
 Special General Assembly sessions occur fairly often in Connecticut, but this one is unusual because it comes so soon after a legislative election and so close to the start of the 2009 regular session.
 ''It's going to be our lame-duck guys,'' said Mr. Amann, who is one of several veteran lawmakers who decided not to run for re-election this year. Mr. Amann is considering running for governor in 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peace Offering: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman with the majority leader, Harry Reid, on Capitol Hill on Tuesday after Democrats made peace with Mr. Lieberman and allowed him to remain as committee chairman despite his support for John McCain for president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (77%); JOE LIEBERMAN (72%); JOHN MCCAIN (68%); HARRY REID (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008



1011 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: For Luxury Brands, Less Money to Spend on Ads and Spectacles

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Gold was raining from above for luxury brands in the good old days of 2007. 
 Last December, the designer Marc Jacobs held his annual holiday party for 800 guests, including revelers from Vogue, W, and Harper's Bazaar, in the Rainbow Room at Rockefeller Center. With the theme of Arabian Nights, Mr. Jacobs had arranged for tableaux vivants, contortionists, five open bars, bare-chested women bedecked in gold necklaces, bare-chested men balancing candelabras on their heads and, at one point, a shower of gold glitter poured over the guests. 
 Mr. Jacobs has held the party for each of the last 18 years, but on Nov. 4, a short e-mail message was sent out by his business partner, Robert Duffy: ''Due to the financial climate, I had to make the decision to cancel the 2008 holiday party.'' 
 After getting through most of this year unscathed, luxury brands are suffering. Rich consumers who were relatively insulated from the economic downturn continued spending, but that has changed in the last few months. While luxury spending began to fall slightly from June, in October alone, it dropped 20.1 percent, according to MasterCard SpendingPulse, which estimates consumer spending in the retail and service sectors. 
 That drop-off means more bad news for magazines and newspapers in the United States that had grown increasingly dependent on luxury advertising.
 Ad pages at the top luxury magazines fell 22 percent year over year for the December issues, according to Media Industry Newsletter. Vogue, for example, dropped from 284 pages last December, to 221 pages this December, while Food & Wine went from 160 pages to 126, according to the newsletter.
 That has meant cutbacks at publishers. In October, Conde Nast announced it would reduce Men's Vogue from 10 issues a year to two, reduce the number of issues of Conde Nast Portfolio and cut magazine budgets by 5 percent. Niche Media, which publishes Gotham and Hamptons, laid off some employees and closed a shelter magazine. American Express Publishing, which owns Departures, Travel & Leisure and Food & Wine, is laying off 4 percent of its staff.
 ''It's definitely an environment that most have never seen,'' said Ed Ventimiglia, the publisher of Departures. ''Everyone is very concerned and somewhat confused as to what they should do.''
 High-end advertising was one of the few strong advertising categories earlier in the year. Luxury ad spending in categories measured by Nielsen Monitor-Plus actually rose 6.7 percent through August of this year over last year, even as almost all other areas slashed their spending. 
 Publishers did not miss that trend. In September, Dow Jones & Company introduced WSJ., a glossy magazine, to attract luxury advertisers, and The Washington Post introduced FW, a fashion magazine. The New York Times Company has said its style magazines are big revenue sources for the company, and magazine publishers like Hearst, Conde Nast and Niche Media have also bet that high-end consumption and advertisements would continue.
 For now, publishers are trying to persuade brands to maintain their ad commitments. More than half of affluent consumers have cut their spending on luxury products compared with a year ago, according to a study by Unity Marketing, a market-research firm. Those consumers' confidence in the economy is the lowest it has been in five years.
 ''The stereotype in our sector is the high-end luxury brands are Teflon to a recession, which, of course, is nonsense,'' said Alexander Duckworth, the founder of Point One Percent, a New York City company that advises luxury brands on marketing. ''Much more so than in a traditional recession, this has really hit quite hard at the top, and quite quickly at the top.''
 ''We're just seeing the very beginning of this,'' Mr. Duckworth said.
 Ronald Jackson, the chief executive of Tradema of America, which markets and distributes Girard-Perregaux watches in the United States, said he was reducing his advertising budget in the United States by about 20 percent for the first quarter.
 ''We have retailers that are saying, 'You know what? We have this on order, but we need you to not ship it until things get better,' '' Mr. Jackson said. ''We have to react in some way.''
 Graff Diamonds, the London-based retailer, is also cutting its budget. ''We're definitely not taking on any new advertising, and we're cutting back on all our current advertising,'' a Graff spokeswoman said. She declined to specify a figure, but said the cuts were higher in the United States than in Britain.
 Brioni, the Italian fashion line, will cut its advertising by 10 to 15 percent in United States publications, said Antonella De Simone, the co-chief executive.
 Other high-end projects, and the advertising that would accompany them, are being delayed or canceled. General Motors is postponing the introduction of the Buick LaCrosse until January, Ford is holding off redesigning its Volvo S60 sedan and XC90 sports-utility vehicle, and Chrysler has stopped production on its Aspen hybrid sports-utility vehicle. Orient-Express Hotels canceled new buildings in Miami; Cartagena, Spain; Zambia; and Puglia, Italy. Donald Trump is postponing a $300 million development in Philadelphia, and the Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company has halted projects in Florida, Vancouver and California. 
 Facing a steeper decline, publishers are feeling very vulnerable.
 ''What the first salvo seems to be, going into 2009, is luxury advertisers -- who will go unnamed -- are trying to take advantage of the negative news in the market in order to secure a more favorable rate,'' said Jim Taylor, the publisher of Town & Country, a Hearst magazine.
 ''It would be a reasonable argument if our costs weren't going up dramatically, but we're affected by the same things they're affected by,'' he said. ''Paper's way up, postal's way up.'' 
 Mr. Taylor said he was expecting smaller brands, in particular, to reduce the number of ads they would run in his magazine.
 At Conde Nast Traveler, advertisers are being slow to commit, and financial services and real estate ads are plummeting, the publisher, Lisa Hughes, said.
 Michael Rooney, the chief revenue officer of Dow Jones & Company, the News Corporation division that publishes the Wall Street Journal and WSJ., said luxury advertising in the newspaper was about flat. There were 51 advertisers in the premiere issue of WSJ., he said, and 52 so far in the second issue, which comes out in December. 
 Luxury advertising in The New York Times has been ''very stable'' this year, said Denise Warren, senior vice president and chief advertising officer at The New York Times Media Group. She said the holiday issue of the fashion publication T Magazine was up by one page of advertising compared with last year. Still, she said, ''there is absolutely nervousness in the marketplace.''
 And Mr. Ventimiglia of Departures said the January issue was down in ad pages.
 ''A page here and a page there add up,'' Mr. Ventimiglia said, ''even though many lost pages are a result of delayed budgets, and we're taking a hit.''
 Though luxury brands are reducing advertising, many continue -- quietly -- to spend on client dinners and launch parties, which they view as directly affecting sales. But the events may not erase economic concerns.
 In October, the Swiss watch brand Vacheron Constantin hosted a party to promote a new line of watches, some costing as much as $60,000. Inside the event, it seemed like precrisis times: waiters passed trays of lobster wrapped in zucchini and beef en croute, and filled glasses with Moet & Chandon champagne. 
 ''As of today I think it would be wrong to stop everything because of the crisis,'' said Julien Tornare, the president of Vacheron Constantin North America, in an interview. ''Of course we will adjust if we have to in the future, but right now we don't want to react.''
 Two men in suits, sipping drinks, walked past one of the watches, mounted on a pedestal like a museum piece.
 ''You see the watch?'' one asked.
 ''Nice little watch,'' the other replied.
 ''Yeah, it is,'' the first one said. 
 But they kept walking. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 26, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about advertising cutbacks by luxury brands misidentified the site of an Orient-Express Hotels project that has been canceled. It is Cartagena, Colombia, not Cartagena, Spain.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the scene at the lavish 2007 holiday party held by Marc Jacobs. Left, ads from Brioni and Graff Diamonds. Both are cutting their budgets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILLY FARRELL/PATRICKMcMULLAN.COM) (pg.B1)
 Tradema of America distributes Girard-Perregaux watches in the United States and is slashing its ad budget by 20 percent. (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (87%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (87%); PUBLISHING (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); BUDGETS (76%); FINE JEWELRY (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); TRENDS (72%); PRINT ADVERTISING (70%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); BUDGET CUTS (63%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%); DOW JONES & CO INC (80%); ARABIAN NIGHTS (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING CORP (52%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (83%); WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1012 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Children Who Live in Public Housing Suffer in School, Study Says

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
New York City children who live in public housing perform worse in school than students who live in other types of housing, according to a study by New York University researchers.
 The study, which is being released on Monday, found that students living in public housing are more likely to drop out of high school and less likely to graduate in four years than those who do not live in public housing.
 It also showed that fifth graders living in public housing did worse on standardized math and reading tests than fifth graders who lived elsewhere. Researchers found this disparity in fifth-grade test scores even when comparing students at the same school who shared similar demographics, like race, gender and poverty status. 
 The report is the first large-scale study of the academic performance of children growing up in the city's 343 public housing complexes, researchers said. They suggest that those children face social and economic hurdles at home that affect their success in the classroom and illustrate the often-overlooked role that housing can play in education. The report was done by the university's Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy and its Institute for Education and Social Policy.
 About 112,000 children ages 5 to 18 live in buildings managed by the city's public housing agency, the New York City Housing Authority. The agency, the city's biggest landlord, maintains 178,000 apartments, providing low-rent housing subsidized by the federal government to low- and moderate-income families.
 The study is based on city public schools data from the 2002-3 academic year, including student demographics and test scores as well as teacher and school characteristics. It does not provide a definitive reason why the two types of students perform so differently, but it offers possible explanations.
 The researchers suggest that public housing's culture of poverty offers young people few role models to stress the importance of education, limits their resources and exposes them to crime or widespread peer pressure from those not doing well in school. Another possible reason is that families who live in public housing may differ from other poor families in ways that are hard to measure.
 '' 'We don't know' is the short answer,'' said Vicki Been, director of the Furman Center and an N.Y.U. law professor. ''We don't have the data that would enable us to pin it down.''
 Howard Marder, a spokesman for the Housing Authority, said in a statement that the agency had ''serious concerns and reservations'' about the study. ''Although the study may highlight an area in need of further research, the study that was conducted was limited, dated and incomplete,'' he said.
 About 44 percent of public housing families are considered to be what the Housing Authority calls ''working families,'' meaning they earn income from employment. The average income of working families is $34,277. Housing experts say the high percentage of working families has helped the agency create a stable living environment at many of its complexes and is one of the reasons why concentrations of public housing have failed in other cities but succeeded in New York.
 But there is still a large number of public housing residents who are unemployed, disabled or receive public assistance. Of the 112,000 children ages 5 to 18, roughly 95 percent are black or Hispanic, and 56 percent live below the federal poverty level. Many households are headed by single mothers.
 Though crime has decreased from decades past, violence, drug-dealing and gang activity still plague many developments. In March, a 9-year-old girl was wounded when a bullet went through her apartment window at the Langston Hughes Apartments in Brownsville, Brooklyn. A video made by young men at the St. Nicholas Houses in Harlem -- posted on YouTube and recently removed -- showed a young man in a stairway, holding an old-fashioned revolver.
 Diamond Malachi said she was 11 years old when she and a friend walked into a store near her apartment at the Breukelen Houses in Brooklyn and gunfire erupted outside. Her friend was shot, but Diamond was in the back of the store and escaped unharmed.
 ''Everything that happens outside of school I zone it out,'' said Diamond, who is now 14 and a freshman at the Green School: An Academy for Environmental Careers, a new public high school in Brooklyn. ''I don't have to, but I choose to, just to get that off my mind.''
 Kyasia Kingsberry, 14, lives in the Louis H. Pink Houses in Brooklyn. She said she has a friend who lives in the complex who dropped out of high school last year because of problems at home and at school, and knows several other Pink Houses youths who have also dropped out.
 Kyasia and Diamond are exceptions: They have not done poorly in school but have excelled, in part because of their involvement in a free after-school program run by Groundwork, a nonprofit group in East New York, Brooklyn.
 Kyasia, a freshman at the Academy for Young Writers in Brooklyn, said dropping out was not an option. ''I don't want to disappoint my mother, but most of all I don't want to disappoint myself,'' she said.
 The N.Y.U. report found stark differences in the schools attended by Housing Authority residents and non-Housing Authority residents. The average elementary school attended by children living in public housing had fewer white students, more poor students and performed lower on standardized math and reading exams than the average school attended by students who do not live in public housing. 
 For Joel I. Klein, the schools chancellor, the report touches on a population that he knows well: Mr. Klein grew up in public housing, at the Woodside Houses in Queens.
 Andrew Jacob, a spokesman for the city's Department of Education, said officials there will review the study. He said that student test scores had gone up significantly since the 2002-3 academic year and that the study appeared to highlight the larger national issue of the achievement gap between poor black and Hispanic students and their wealthier white and Asian counterparts.
 ''We've seen an upward trend across the city in test scores, and the gap between black and Hispanic students and their white and Asian peers has narrowed,'' Mr. Jacob said. ''What the chancellor is focused on is making sure that every student, wherever he or she lives in the city, has the opportunity to get an excellent education.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Diamond Malachi, right, at an after-school program that has helped her excel in the classroom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1013 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Thinking Globally: America's Rise to Dominance, With Slips Along the Way

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH. 
Howard W. French is an associate professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism and author of ''A Continent for the Taking: The Tragedy and Hope of Africa.''

 BODY:
Any book aiming to explore American diplomatic history from the Revolution until now necessarily involves some serious skimming. George C. Herring's weighty yet fast-paced ''From Colony to Superpower'' is no exception. At 1,000-plus pages, its first achievement is its feat of inclusiveness, managed by making quick work of many interesting subplots of the United States' rich and complex relations with the world.
 What distinguishes the effort is not so much the sturdy precis that the author serves up on the traditional obligatory highlights in the American story but his narrative abilities. The narrative power lies partly in identifying themes that gradually give a strong organizational cohesion to his story. 
 Mr. Herring is a professor emeritus at the University of Kentucky who is best known for a history of the Vietnam War. In this latest book his themes are all the more refreshing because many of the ideas he returns to again and again are still largely ignored by our school curriculums and the popular history mills of the book industry.
 ''From Colony to Superpower'' anchors its ideas through accretion. Where it works, it is revisionism of the best kind, quiet but insistent, reinforced by archival evidence and deftly drawn parallels.
 The cascade of ideas begins with the rejection of the widely accepted notion that the United States has often been an isolationist power. 
 Right from the start, Mr. Herring says, the generation of founding fathers was outward looking and consumed by diplomacy. What is more, expansionism, first beyond the original 13 colonies, then into the Caribbean and Pacific and eventually culminating in a political and economic domain spanning the world, has almost always animated American leaders.
 Already at the time of the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, in 1787, no less than James Madison spoke of ''laying the foundation of a great empire.'' By 1821 John Quincy Adams was mocking the fast swelling British Empire: ''I do not know what you claim nor what you do not claim.'' When his British interlocutor replied sarcastically, ''Perhaps, a piece of the moon,'' Adams issued a blunt warning about North America: ''Keep what is yours and leave the rest of the continent to us.'' 
 Less than a decade later President Andrew Jackson had embraced gunboat diplomacy to East Asia and exploration of the South Pole, and spoke of showing the flag ''to every portion of the globe, to give to civilized and savage man a just impression of the power we possess.'' 
 Attitudes like this were steadily fed by a fast-growing population, an economy that became the envy of the world and by a creed of American exceptionalism, whose roots could already be discerned in the words of Thomas Jefferson. 
 Jefferson drew a sharp distinction between the ''high moral purpose'' of the United States and the ''low motives of power and expediency that drove others.'' At the time, Mr. Herring notes, one-fifth of the American population were slaves. 
 Less conventionally, in terms of the mainstream way history has been taught for generations, Mr. Herring paints a potent picture of the role of race as an important and frequently central motive behind American actions.
 This story line begins with the annihilation of American Indians, who conducted lively foreign relations of their own, with the government in Washington, with the European powers and even with the Confederacy until its subjugation. 
 His story continues with the politics of black bondage, as the young nation pushed west, extending the frontier of slavery and precipitating the Civil War.
 The narrative of frank racism, a word Mr. Herring employs frequently, gains momentum in a discussion of Manifest Destiny, which he says had more to do with an ideology of racial superiority than with altruism. The examples, in 19th-century dealings with continental neighbors like Haiti, Cuba and Nicaragua, are as painful as they are numerous. 
 A persistent target was Mexico, which lost huge chunks of its territory to American expansionism. ''Americans scorned Mexicans as a mixed breed, even below free blacks and Indians, 'an imbecile and pusillanimous race,' '' Mr. Herring writes. He adds a few pages later, ''The very racism that drove the United States into Mexico limited its conquests.'' 
 Quoting Andrew Jackson Donelson, the former president's nephew, Mr. Herring recounts, ''We can no more amalgamate with her people than with negroes.'' Much later, we learn, the same thinking prevented Puerto Rico from becoming a state. 
 When he gets to the 20th century, Mr. Herring labors to portray Woodrow Wilson as the figure who ''towers above the landscape of modern American foreign policy.'' But in Mr. Herring's telling it is Franklin D. Roosevelt who leaves the biggest impression, despite his frequent criticisms of Roosevelt's maddening management style.
 Wilson and Roosevelt began their presidencies by minimizing foreign policy. Wilson spent six months in Paris pursuing a peaceful new world order. Through cunning and vision, Roosevelt dragged the United States into the next great war and not only emerged victorious but remade the world.
 Trends of the past carry steadily forward throughout the book, with idealism, self-regard and seemingly ever-increasing power combining with condescension and arrogance, particularly toward non-Western peoples, causing the United States to underestimate others and overplay its hand, perhaps most notably in Korea and Vietnam. 
 In historical retrospect the stalemated United States war in Korea clearly heralds the emergence of China as the next big thing, while not long afterward Vietnam, which one of Andrew Jackson's agents once called home to ''the most filthy people in the world,'' would become the place where America finally discovered its limits. 
 Mr. Herring concludes by advising Americans to prepare for their relative decline: ''They must cast away centuries-old notions of themselves as God's chosen people. In today's world, such pretensions cannot fail to alienate others.'' 
 FROM COLONY TO SUPERPOWER 
 U.S. Foreign Relations Since 1776 
 By George C. Herring 
 Illustrated. 1,035 pages. Oxford University Press. $35. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT GOINS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CURRICULA (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); VIETNAM WAR (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (58%)

TITLE: From Colony to Superpower (Book)>; From Colony to Superpower (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1014 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Logo) 365GAY NEWS SPECIAL: HARVEY MILK On Nov. 27, 1978, Milk, a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors and the first openly gay man to be elected to public office in California, and Mayor George Moscone were assassinated by Dan White, a former city supervisor who had recently resigned but wanted his job back. In this report Ross Palombo, a CBS News correspondent, ventures inside San Francisco City Hall, the scene of the crime and a setting for ''Milk,'' the new film starring Sean Penn, above right with Josh Brolin. Another segment visits Harvey Milk Civil Rights Academy, the elementary school in the Castro district of San Francisco. Among those interviewed are Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco and ''Milk'' cast members -- Mr. Brolin, James Franco, Alison Pill and Diego Luna.
 10 A.M. (55); 3 P.M. (NBC) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOW Bette Midler and Pink perform at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. 
 11 A.M. (NBC) THE MARTHA STEWART SHOWKeith Olbermann makes triple-chocolate pumpkin pie. Also a behind-the-scenes look at Citymeals on Wheels, which delivers food to elderly, homebound New Yorkers.
 7 P.M. (BBC America) BBC WORLD NEWS AMERICA Jamie Coomarasamy examines the economic woes of Rhode Island, which has the highest rate of unemployment in the United States, and explores the reasons the state has been hit hardest. Among them: a disproportionate number of laid-off workers who don't hold college degrees as well as a reliance on small businesses.
 8 P.M. (ABC) DANCING WITH THE STARS The remaining celebrities take to the floor for the last time before the winner is announced in the seventh-season finale on Tuesday.
 8:30 P.M. (CBS) HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER The gang tries a new tactic to get their dates into bed after Ted (Josh Radnor) walks into the apartment and find Robin's date sitting on the couch in the nude.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) THE RAPE OF EUROPA (2006) For 12 years the Nazis looted and destroyed art on an unprecedented scale -- by some accounts, nearly a fifth of all the known artworks in Europe. Sixty years later the story is still playing out as curators and historians help to reconnect works with their rightful owners. This documentary, based on a book by Lynn H. Nicholas and narrated by Joan Allen, begins and ends with the story of Gustav Klimt's ''gold portrait'' of Adele Bloch-Bauer, which was stolen from Viennese Jews in 1938 and, at $135 million, is one of the most expensive paintings ever sold. Above, Samuel Blinder, an American chaplain, sorts stolen Torah scrolls.
 9 P.M. (Fox) PRISON BREAK The hunt for Scylla comes to an end, and with it Sara (Sarah Wayne Callies) takes a hostage; T-Bag (Robert Knepper) and Gretchen (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe) have a showdown at Gate; and Michael (Wentworth Miller) and Lincoln (Dominic Purcell) run into General Krantz (Leon Russom). And then they are betrayed.
 10 P.M. (History) VALKYRIE: THE PLOT TO KILL HITLER On July 20, 1944 -- as Allied troops were fighting their way toward victory -- a group of German officers, led by Col. Claus von Stauffenberg, left, tried to assassinate Hitler and take control of the German government. Their goal: to negotiate an immediate end to World War II. The plot failed, and nearly all of those associated with it were imprisoned, tortured and executed. This 90-minute program examines the events through newsreel footage, archival photographs, re-enactments and interviews with survivors, relatives, witnesses and historians. Those interviewed include Berthold and Konstanze von Stauffenberg, children of Colonel von Stauffenberg; Philipp Baron von Boeselager, a conspirator in the plot; Johanna Rahtgens, the wife of Karl Ernst Rahtgens, who was part of the coup attempt; and former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CITIES (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); PAINTING (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); CELEBRITIES (68%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (63%); HISTORY (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1015 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 563 words

PERSON: Kiyoshi Ito 

HEADLINE: Kiyoshi Ito, 93, a Mathematician, Dies

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Kiyoshi Ito, a mathematician whose innovative models of random motion are used today in fields as diverse as finance and biology, died Nov. 17 at a hospital in Kyoto, Japan. He was 93.
 His death was confirmed by his daughter, Junko Ito.
 Mr. Ito is known for his contributions to probability theory, the study of randomness. His work, starting in the 1940s, built on the earlier breakthroughs of Albert Einstein and Norbert Wiener. Mr. Ito's mathematical framework for describing the evolution of random phenomena came to be known as the Ito Calculus. 
 ''People all over realized that what Ito had done explained things that were unexplainable before,'' said Daniel Stroock, a professor of mathematics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 Mr. Ito's research was theoretical, but his models served as a tool kit for others, notably in finance. Robert C. Merton, a winner of the Nobel in economic science, said he found Mr. Ito's model ''a very useful tool'' in his research on the evolution of stock prices in a portfolio and, later, in helping develop a theory for pricing stock options that is used on Wall Street today. Mr. Ito, he said, was ''a very eminent mathematician.''
 Starting in the 1950s, Mr. Ito spent lengthy stints outside Japan at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., Aarhus University in Denmark, Cornell and Stanford. Each of his three daughters was born in a different country -- one in Japan, one in Denmark and one in the United States.
 Japan is often said to have an inward-looking culture, Mr. Stroock noted. ''But this was a man who was the opposite of insular,'' said Mr. Stroock, who occasionally collaborated with Mr. Ito.
 Kiyoshi Ito was born Sept. 7, 1915, in a farm town west of Nagoya, Japan. An excellent student, he was accepted to Japan's elite Tokyo University. After graduating, he spent the war years mainly as a statistician in a government office, worked briefly as an assistant professor at Nagoya University and returned to Tokyo University for his doctorate in 1945.
 Mr. Ito learned four foreign languages, Chinese, German, French and English. Yet he mastered them as written languages instead of conversationally. He liked to joke about how his spoken English was impenetrable to many Americans, notably on a car trip to Texas with his youngest daughter, Junko, who ended up doing all the talking with Texans.
 Mr. Ito collected many professional honors and awards over the years. He was a foreign member of the national academies of science in the United States and France. He was awarded the Kyoto Prize, the Wolf Foundation Prize of Israel and the Carl Friedrich Gauss Prize of Germany.
 Mr. Ito is survived by his three daughters, Keiko Kojima of Otsu, Japan; Kazuko Sorensen of London; and Junko of Santa Cruz, Calif. His wife of 61 years, Shizue, died in 2000.
 Mr. Stroock of M.I.T. said Mr. Ito had an intense curiosity, whether focused on math theory or world affairs or shoeing horses. When Mr. Stroock taught at the University of Colorado in the 1970s, he recalled, Mr. Ito stayed with him while they worked on a writing project together. One day, Mr. Stroock told Mr. Ito that he could not work on their book because his horses were being shod that day.
 Mr. Ito eagerly trailed along. ''He drove the farrier crazy because every time the guy did anything, Ito asked a question,'' Mr. Stroock said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Monday about the mathematician Kiyoshi Ito misstated the date of his death. It was Nov. 10, not Nov. 17. The obituary also misidentified the country where two of his three daughters were born. All three were born in Japan, not one in Japan, one in Denmark and one in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CALCULUS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); DENMARK (86%); FRANCE (71%); GERMANY (66%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1016 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: For Laid-Off Journalists, Blog Aid

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
It's a long way from $700 billion, but the media start-up Six Apart is introducing its own economic bailout plan. 
 The TypePad Journalist Bailout Program offers recently terminated bloggers and journalists a free pro account (worth $150 annually) on the company's popular blogging platform. In addition to the free yearly membership, the 20 to 30 journalists who are accepted will receive professional tech support, placement on the company's blog aggregation site, Blogs.com, and automatic enrollment in the company's advertising revenue-sharing program. 
 Anil Dash, a former blogger and current vice president at Six Apart, announced the program Nov. 14, shortly after the company made its own staff cuts. Mr. Dash fired off a blog post: ''Hello, recently-laid-off or fearful-of-layoffs journalist! We're Six Apart (you know us as the nice folks who make Movable Type or TypePad, which maybe you used for blogging at your old newspaper or magazine) and we want to help you.''
 On Monday morning, he had roughly 50 e-mail applications in his inbox, and they have continued to pour in, totaling nearly 300 so far. ''It was a bit of a surprise how quickly word got out,'' Mr. Dash said. ''This has struck a nerve.''
 Brooke-Sidney Gavins, a broadcast journalism student at the University of Southern California, is hoping to be chosen to help her nascent writing career. ''I understand that there may not be a 'guaranteed' job with a major media organization after I graduate,'' Ms. Gavins said. ''A lot of new journalists are going to have to build their careers more guerrilla-style by selling their stories and promoting their work all the time.''
 For Johanna Neuman, a veteran White House reporter and blogger who was recently laid off by The Los Angeles Times, the program would be a chance to continue writing about politics and float book ideas in the hopes of landing a publishing deal. ''I might just start putting chapters up and see who salutes,'' Ms. Neuman said. 
 Mr. Dash says he hopes to eventually accept every applicant. ''How do we do right by all these people?'' he said. ''That's exactly what's keeping me up at night.'' JENNA WORTHAM

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (55%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1017 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Public Shows Support for California Art Museum

BYLINE: By JORI FINKEL

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Amid the financial crisis facing the Museum of Contemporary Art here, raising the prospect of a merger with another arts institution, some 450 visitors gathered Sunday at the museum's Geffen Contemporary location to offer the first organized public show of support for the 25-year-old museum. 
 The billionaire Eli Broad has offered $30 million to help rescue the museum, whose endowment has fallen to less than $10 million, provided that other patrons also increase donations.
 The standing-room-only crowd included dozens of local museum workers as well as artists like Andrea Fraser, Katie Grinnan, Martin Kersels, Alexis Smith, Jennifer Steinkamp and James Welling. Originally scheduled for the afternoon was a talk by art historian George Baker on conceptual art. When approached by the artists Cindy Bernard and Diana Thater last week, Mr. Baker gave up his time slot for the forum. 
 The event ran under an hour, with comments on the significance of the museum by Mr. Baker, Ms. Bernard and Ms. Thater, but no museum employees. The speakers invited comments but no questions from the audience -- ''We don't have any answers,'' Ms. Bernard said, after Ms. Thater praised the museum's ''integrity and autonomy.''
 Among the possibilities being discussed for the museum's future is a joint venture or merger with the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
 ''MOCA is one of the most important institutions for postwar art in this country, with a very different program and culture than Lacma,'' Ms. Fraser said. ''A merger would be horrible.''
 Kimberli Meyer, the director of MAK Center for Art and Architecture here, jumped in and said: ''We can't let this be our Bear Stearns. If something happened to MOCA, it would change the chemistry of the L.A. art world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); HISTORY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1018 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: For Detroit, Chapter 11 Would Be the Final Chapter

BYLINE: By SPENCER ABRAHAM. 
Spencer Abraham is a former United States secretary of energy under President Bush and a former United States senator from Michigan. He is the chairman and chief executive of the Abraham Group, which advises energy and investment companies, and is a board member of Occidental Petroleum.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 MANY commentators and members of Congress have declared that the best hope for the Big Three auto companies is to declare bankruptcy. Airlines have gone through bankruptcy and adjusted, after all, so why can't carmakers? 
 This comparison is appealing, but flawed. Almost every carmaker that has ever gone bankrupt has disappeared for good. And there is no reason to believe the Big Three would not do the same. Chapter 11 filing would almost surely lead to liquidation. 
 Just as financial institutions depend on the confidence of those with whom they do business (as Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers discovered), automakers depend on the confidence of car buyers. To purchase a car is to make a multiyear commitment: the buyer must have confidence that the manufacturer will survive to provide parts and service under warranty. With a declaration of bankruptcy, that confidence evaporates. Eighty percent of consumers would not even consider buying a car or truck from a bankrupt manufacturer, one recent survey indicates. So once a bankruptcy proceeding got started, the company's revenue would plummet, leading it to hemorrhage cash to cover its high fixed costs. 
 That would thwart any attempt at reorganization, and the case would likely move inexorably toward liquidation under Chapter 7 of the federal bankruptcy code. Debtor-in-possession financing -- which is what the bankrupt need in order to pay for the continued operation of their business -- would not be available in the vast amounts required, given the plunge in revenue. 
 A bankruptcy filing by even one of the Big Three would probably set in motion a cascade of smaller bankruptcies by suppliers of car parts, as the money the company owed them (which would be classified as an unsecured claim) could not be paid until it exited bankruptcy. And this loss of suppliers would almost certainly overwhelm the other two carmakers. There would also be a severe contraction in the availability of trade credit from suppliers, which amounts to tens of billions of dollars. 
 And as surely as day leads to night, bankruptcy proceedings would be followed by liquidation. In a flash, the American carmaking business, representing about 10 percent of the nation's retail sales, would begin to disappear. 
 For those concerned about the potential price of a federal bailout for Detroit -- and I'm one of them -- the reality is that this cost would be dwarfed by the long-term spillover costs of bankruptcy and liquidation. Nearly three million jobs would be lost in the first year if all three car companies closed and their suppliers absorbed the shock, according to the Center for Automotive Research. That would mean tens of billions of dollars in pension liabilities would be transferred to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal insurance fund that protects the pensions of nearly 44 million American workers but already has a $10.7 billion deficit. 
 We'd also see an influx of Americans who have lost their health insurance onto the rolls of Medicare and Medicaid, costing billions of dollars more. And the budgets of the so-called ''auto states,'' mainly in the Midwest, that depend heavily on the domestic car manufacturing industry would be wrecked, and that would likely lead to both higher taxes and depressed economic growth. 
 Bankruptcy would also deliver a painful shock to the country's already damaged financial system, which draws significant revenue from, and has significant credit exposure to, auto loans. For the past decade, an average of roughly eight million vehicles made by General Motors, Ford and Chrysler have been sold annually. That translates into about $190 billion in auto financing each year. Given that the average life of an auto loan is two years, an estimated $350 billion to $400 billion worth of exposure is thrashing around our financial system. And the value of this paper would drop along with the value of the cars. 
 Regional and national banks, as well as credit unions and finance companies, hold these loans on their balance sheets. Banks also have exposure through investment vehicles whose value is tied to car loans. And the pain would be intensified because the banks have not hedged their exposure to auto loans. 
 There's no denying the American auto companies have made major mistakes, by over-investing in S.U.V.'s, for example, and failing to quickly streamline their manufacturing. But allowing one of them to file for bankruptcy would be a disastrous course.
 If we knew then what we know now about the systemic shock to our economy, would we have allowed Lehman Brothers to go bankrupt? Absolutely not. If we let any of the Big Three go bankrupt, we will set in motion a chain of events that will cause us, in six months, to ask again: How did we let this happen? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (97%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); COMPANY REVENUES (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (60%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1019 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Downturn Hasn't Dimmed the Weird Nightlife

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It sometimes feels as if the autumn of 2008 will forever be known as the season when New York stopped -- stopped bursting at the seams, stopped spilling money, stopped building up, stopped feeling invincible. Although the crowds still swirl, there's suddenly the hint of negative space all over town: the shoppers who aren't in the stores, the diners who aren't packing the restaurants, the business meetings that aren't happening, the colleagues who are no longer showing up for work. 
 That's why it's a little encouraging that every Friday afternoon, right around the time the Dow closes for the day, an e-mail message from a former journalist turned artist named Jeff Stark still arrives in the in-boxes of his fans around the city. The subject heading is always the same -- ''Nonsense NYC,'' followed by some dates. What the content of the e-mail message offers is a listing of events around town. But as a public good, Mr. Stark's message, which is free for anyone who subscribes on his Web site, www.nonsensenyc.com, really provides two services: information for those looking for an unusual weekend excursion, and a voyeuristic glimpse of the city's undaunted exuberance for those who aren't. 
 Anyone who read Mr. Stark's curated listings for this past weekend, for example, could have encountered, at the various events posted, cheap tequila, vintage short films, a ''dwarf Cabalist,'' electro-pop music or the tap-dancing Minsk Sisters. Readers could have dropped in on a bird-watching adventure at Calvert Vaux Park in Brooklyn intended to increase ''psychic avian awareness,'' or competed in a Fondue Takedown in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, or reveled at a party in Queens described as ''the sanctification of an antinomian church.''
 In the wrong frame of mind, reading Mr. Stark's listings -- just contemplating the commute it would take to get to some of the events -- can be exhausting. But they can also have the opposite effect, injecting the depressed with a jolt of borrowed energy or, at a minimum, providing the reassurance that financial crisis or not, night life goes on. 
 Mr. Stark, 36, who has been compiling the listings since 2000, about a year after he arrived in New York, describes Nonsense NYC on its Web site as ''a discriminating resource for independent art, weird events, strange happenings, unique parties and senseless culture in New York City.'' Participatory art, underground parties, multimedia spectacles, street theater and absurdist events of all kinds get play in Mr. Stark's listings, which go out to an unspecified number of New Yorkers. (Mr. Stark says he prefers not to quantify his subscription base, for fear that its size would intimidate people considering posting events intended for small numbers of people.)
 When we think recession, we think about minimizing expenses, damage, anything unnecessary -- we think a lot about thinking small. Mr. Stark's listings convey an unending sense of people thinking big -- extravagantly, even -- and all for nothing, or close to it: Most of the events he lists are free, and the ones that aren't max out around $20. He rarely lists just a party: It's a party with a live band, a screening of an original animated film and puppet acts; or a Spain-themed party with professional opera singers belting ''Carmen'' and with a Hemingway-inspired boxing match.
 The Spain-themed event was one that Mr. Stark helped create. His inspiration for that and the listings themselves originated in San Francisco, where Mr. Stark lived before arriving in New York. That city had not only a thriving participatory art scene, but also a reliable listing service for them so that members of the community could easily find one another. On discovering that gap here in New York, he decided to fill it. He started to e-mail his listings to 50 friends and built from there, helping to create events, drumming up interest in others and occasionally tending bar. 
 For the kinds of events that Mr. Stark's listings celebrate -- theater and parties done on the cheap, often in illegal, raw space -- a real estate bust could provide a much-needed opportunity for activist art.
 ''I think we're just starting to see the opening of a new warehouse period in New York,'' Mr. Stark said, ''because a lot of the people who own buildings aren't able to develop them right now. People are starting to have better luck doing events in those kinds of spaces.'' Unfortunately, he added, the police are still shutting them down just as often.
 Once a writer who covered film and music for publications including Salon.com, Mr. Stark quit his day job, in part so he could keep up with the listings. He makes no claim to accuracy on dates and urges his readers to double-check all times. (After getting one date for a party in Brooklyn wrong, Mr. Stark gave a special shout-out apology in last Friday's listings to ''anyone who went out on the wrong night and, in particular, Devin, who rode his bike very far to get there.'') Mr. Stark now makes his living doing unusual handyman work (he helps Balthazar restaurant with its Christmas decor, for example), setting up lights and props for commercial film and photography, and bartending. On the side, he holds community dinners made partly from Dumpster-diving expeditions he organizes (vegetarian and organic, of course), and has written a play to be performed in a public space. 
 ''I'm a terrible bartender,'' he cautioned. ''I cannot make any drink if the name of the drink is not the drink.''
 Tending bar at one or two of the underground parties he regularly lists on his site (and cherishes as a kind of civic activism) isn't much different from doing it anywhere else, he said. ''You have to be honest, and really fast,'' he said. He did allow one key difference: ''You have to be able to shut down and walk away from the bar as fast as possible.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Big City column on Nov. 24, about Jeff Stark, who publishes an e-mail newsletter listing unusual weekend events in New York, misspelled the surname of two tap-dancing sisters included in a recent listing. They are the Minsky Sisters, not Minsk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At one Brooklyn party on Saturday that was listed on Nonsense NYC, the crowd included a masked man, above, and at another the revelers wore costumes at the Montauk Club. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); STREET ART (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); FILM (74%); RESTAURANTS (71%); WEB SITES (66%); POP & ROCK (64%); DANCE (64%); BIRDING (63%); BIRDS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1020 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Foundation Starts News Service To Cover Health Care Topics

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
Seeking to fill a niche left by the decline of the traditional news media, the Kaiser Family Foundation is starting a news service to produce in-depth coverage of the policy and politics of health care, both for an independent Web site and in collaborations with mainstream news organizations. 
 With a budget that is expected to reach $3 million to $4 million in two years, the project is one of the most ambitious in a wave of nonprofit online ventures that have emerged as newspapers and magazines cut jobs and newsgathering budgets. 
 Kaiser, which is based in Menlo Park, Calif., has hired two highly regarded journalists to run the Kaiser Health News, based in Washington: Laurie McGinley, formerly the deputy bureau chief for global economics at The Wall Street Journal, and Peggy Girshman, a top editor at Congressional Quarterly and previously at National Public Radio.
 Ms. McGinley said she and Ms. Girshman plan to recruit a half-dozen full-time reporters and editors and to contract with numerous freelance journalists. They hope to begin producing original stories early next year. 
 While it will be the largest and best-financed project of its kind, the Kaiser start-up service is only one of several by foundations and entrepreneurs aimed at providing serious coverage of health issues. 
 The California HealthCare Foundation is sponsoring a six-month pilot project to report on health issues in the state, sometimes in partnership with newspapers. With an initial budget of $239,000, that project, the Center for California Health Care Journalism, is being overseen by Michael Parks, a journalism professor at the University of Southern California and a former editor of The Los Angeles Times.
 He has already hired two people who had worked at that newspaper, which has experienced waves of job cuts in recent years. If the pilot project succeeds, the foundation will consider making it permanent with a multimillion-dollar budget, Mr. Parks said.
 In Florida, a former newspaper reporter, Carol Gentry, has started a Web site called Florida Health News that collects stories from the state's media outlets and provides original reporting. Seed money of about $185,000 came largely from seven health-related foundations, and Ms. Gentry hopes to attract advertising and donations for her struggling operation.
 In Kansas, the foundation-financed Kansas Health Institute has its own news service. Elsewhere, several Web sites devoted to covering state government and policy, like MinnPost.com, pay substantive attention to health issues.
 ''In terms of these new journalism ventures, there's more activity in health than in any other area, and they're all slightly different,'' said Louis Freed- berg, director of the California Media Collaborative, which sponsored a conference on health journalism in Los Angeles last week. ''It may be because there are so many foundations focused on health. And perhaps it reflects the fact that this is such a critically important issue.'' 
 Though the models vary, they are united by the conviction that health policy is vastly under-covered by most news organizations at a time when polls show high levels of public concern about the cost, availability and quality of health care. 
 A recent study by Kaiser and the Pew Research Center's Project for Excellence in Journalism found that only 1 percent of stories covered by news organizations concern health policy. The survey sampled a swath of newspapers, cable and network television newscasts, Internet news sites and radio programs in 2007 and the first half of 2008.
 ''That 1 percent is a low number; that is not a media priority,'' said Tom Rosenstiel, director of the Pew journalism project. ''That falls in the range of things the press feels some obligation to cover but doesn't really spend much time on.''
 Two years ago, Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser foundation, established the news service as the foundation's highest priority for expansion. 
 ''I just never felt there was a bigger need for great in-depth journalism on health policy and to be a counterweight to all the spin and misinformation and vested interests that dominate the health care system,'' he said. ''News organizations are every year becoming less capable of producing coverage of these complex issues as their budgets are being slashed.''
 With assets of about $500 million and an annual budget of about $40 million, Kaiser has been a major force in health policy research, analysis and communications. Its Web site features a vast array of free reports and a daily aggregation of health policy news coverage that is viewed about 100,000 times a day, which includes 55,000 subscribers. 
 Whether the philanthropic model for Web-based news coverage is financially sustainable is far from settled, especially with the stock market in decline. Mr. Altman said that Kaiser's holdings have lost about $100 million in value over the last year and that he is making significant cuts in other areas. He said that the economy had delayed the news service but that its financing -- from a reserve dedicated to new projects -- was secure.
 The news service will not accept ads. But to support coverage of issues related to aging, it has accepted money from the SCAN Foundation, which is tied to a California nonprofit group that sells Medicare Advantage policies. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peggy Girshman, left, and Laurie McGinley will run Kaiser Health News. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCIS YING/KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS REPORTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); WEB SITES (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1021 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: The One-Man, or at Least One-Family, Powerhouse

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif. 

 BODY:
At Super Micro Computer, cartons of parts are often stacked in the parking lot, exposed to the elements. The 15-year-old computer maker has grown to 850 employees but still tracks orders the old-fashioned way, relying on sales representatives to monitor each step from assembly to shipping.
 On Saturdays, a family-style lunch is served to workers as a token of thanks for workdays that can stretch to 15 hours.
 And Charles Liang, the company's co-founder and chief executive, obsesses over every detail of the business, from approving the custom orders that are the company's specialty to dictating the environmentally themed, green neckties that executives wear to customer meetings. 
 Despite its peculiarities, Super Micro is a thriving, publicly traded business that sells about $600 million a year of servers to the likes of eBay and Yahoo. More often than not, the company beats rivals to market by three to six months, offering the fastest, most compact, energy-efficient computers to demanding corporate and institutional customers. It has managed to post annual sales growth exceeding 20 percent in recent years, and its stock has outperformed competitors like Rackable Systems and Sun Microsystems.
 Super Micro reflects the passion and quirks of Mr. Liang, an immigrant from Taiwan, who is considered so vital to the operation that the company warns investors in regulatory filings that his loss could derail the company's business, culture and strategic direction.
 ''He is the person who approves and looks at everything the company is doing -- every new product, marketing effort, sales effort, anything you want to do or promote,'' said Scott Barlow, who was manager of American sales at Super Micro before leaving to join Salesforce.com. ''He is kind of a one-man show.''
 Current and former employees describe Mr. Liang with reverence that borders on the cultish. ''It's almost as if Charles wills things to happen,'' said Don Clegg, a vice president. ''If he says a product will be on schedule, it will be on schedule. This is not driven on fear. It's driven on belief.''
 At the heart of everything Super Micro are two principles: give customers what they want, and do it as fast as humanly possible.
 Whereas rivals long ago sent key design work to Asia to take advantage of cheaper, plentiful labor, Super Micro still relies on hundreds of expensive engineers working at its San Jose headquarters. These workers are charged with grabbing the latest and greatest components from suppliers and coming up with new designs months ahead of lumbering heavyweights like Hewlett-Packard and Dell. 
 ''As an individual, Charles is very aggressive and motivated,'' said Patrick P. Gelsinger, Intel's senior vice president in charge of server chips. ''Every once in a while, he appears on the verge of reckless, but if you're going up against the big guys, you have to be willing to take risks.'' 
 The company has become the lead manufacturer that Intel uses for showcasing new products, and rivals often relabel and ship systems built by Super Micro until they can come up with their own designs that accommodate the latest chips. ''They are ready to move and move quick,'' Mr. Gelsinger said. 
 Super Micro's quick turnaround times and sophisticated products have allowed it to grab some loyal and large customers, like the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which purchases tens of thousands of servers each year. 
 ''We're usually trying to buy the latest and greatest stuff, and they typically have new technology first,'' said Mark Seager, head of advanced computing at the lab. ''This helps us maximize the bang for our buck.''
 In order to produce gear at such a quick clip, Super Micro asks a lot of its workers. It's quite common for employees to arrive just after 7 in morning and stay until 10 p.m., coming in on weekends as well. Mr. Liang himself regularly works seven days a week, saying ''every hour is a happy hour, or least every day is a happy day.''
 Mr. Liang has run the firm alongside his wife and company treasurer, Chiu-Chu Liu, known as Sara, since it started as a five-person operation in 1993. 
 The insular, family-run approach is typical of traditional Chinese business culture, said AnnaLee Saxenian, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who has studied immigrant-run businesses in Silicon Valley. ''It echoes back to a very traditional Chinese business model, where you have the family-run farm,'' she said. ''It's all about trust and how you save money.''
 One of Super Micro's main Taiwanese manufacturing partners, Ablecom, is run by Mr. Liang's brother, Steve Liang. Charles Liang and his wife own close to 31 percent of Ablecom, while Steve Liang and other members of the family own close to 50 percent. 
 Regulatory filings show that ''a substantial majority'' of Ablecom's sales come from Super Micro. And while Super Micro pays most suppliers within 81 days, it will sometimes take up to 118 days to pay Ablecom, which houses components and regularly renegotiates prices with Super Micro.
 ''There are some funky, inter-family ownership questions that I would prefer didn't exist,'' said Alex Kurtz, a securities analyst with Merriman Curhan Ford, though he praised the company for disclosing a fair amount about the relationship. 
 Super Micro has some other rough edges, too. The lack of order-tracking software forces sales representatives to spend valuable time making sure systems are built and shipped, and they often squabble over who owns particular accounts.
 The company's poor controls also contributed to its violation of a United States embargo against the sale of computer systems to Iran. In 2006, Super Micro pleaded guilty to a felony charge and paid a $150,000 fine. 
 ''We were a new company and didn't know every regulation,'' Mr. Liang said. ''Now, we are well trained and watch over this 24 hours a day.'' Mr. Liang added that Super Micro was improving its order-tracking system and might consider purchasing process management software. 
 Despite the global economic slump, Super Micro could enjoy a sales spurt over the next few months as Intel and Advanced Micro Devices release new server processors and the company races to design machines that use them to full advantage, according to analysts. 
 And those green ties? At Mr. Liang's request, sales representatives wear them to meetings as a symbol of the company's energy-conserving hardware. Text on the ties boasts that Super Micro's products are ''earth friendly'' and lead to nothing less than ''better life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Liang ''approves and looks at everything the company is doing,'' a former employee said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); SALES FORCE (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); APPROVALS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (69%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (69%); IMMIGRATION (65%); NEW PRODUCTS (64%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); SALESFORCE.COM INC (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); CRM (NYSE) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1022 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 441 words

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
NEW YORK
 DAYBOOK
 Toward Voting Progress
 Tuesday, 10 a.m. Remember those long lines on Election Day, citizen? Presumably to bring New York out of the third world, the City Council is holding a hearing on electronic and same-day voter registration, early voting and no-excuse absentee ballots. 250 Broadway, 16th floor, Manhattan. 
 Ah, Cold-Weather Fun
 Wednesday, 8:30 a.m. Red cheeks, wool caps, knit scarves, pretty girls in heavy winter sweaters, and afterward a nice hot chocolate -- blah, blah, blah. Ice skating returns to Prospect Park. Go now. Before you get too old. Wollman Rink, Brooklyn.
 Balloons Mean Party
 Wednesday, 3 p.m. Celebrate the removal of the Plymouth Colony from the hands of the Pokanoket Indians by watching huge balloons of Spiderman and Kermit the Frog being filled with helium. It's the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade balloon inflation party -- proof that we have strayed far, far from our Puritan roots. Brave the crowds of yuppie kids and tell yourself it's got to be more fun than the first scurvy-ridden Thanksgiving dinner in 1621. Columbus Avenue and West 79th Street, Manhattan.
 Pain and Thanks
 Thanksgiving Day. What, in this season of recessionary pain, do we actually have to be thankful for? Brett Favre's arm. A change in management at the Knicks. The widespread disappearance of the corporate holiday party. St. Ides High Gravity Malt Liquor (8 percent alcohol and cheap). Dallas BBQ. Gas prices under $3. Inauguration Day. And the fact that in the industrial Midwest, it's definitely worse. 
 Spend for Your Country
 Friday. Even though heavy borrowing and rampant consumerism got us in this mess, do your part for the humbled economy by spending a few dollars on what may turn out to be a truly dark Black Friday. At Kmart, for example, one will find Joe Boxer men's fleece pants for $5 and an Elmo inflatable bed at the larcenous price of $49.99. Further up the food chain, offerings include $10 bath towels at Bloomingdale's and an Ogle gathered mock-neck top at Saks for $49.90. Unlike after 9/11, it actually now makes sense to do one's patriotic duty and shop.
 Friday, 1 p.m. Or, if you're truly hurting, shoot things with sharp objects on archery day in Willowbrook Park on Staten Island. Eton Place off Hylan Boulevard. ALAN FEUERTAKING 
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Joel Berg, the executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger and the author of ''All You Can Eat: How Hungry is America?'' will answer selected readers' questions about what New Yorkers can do to reduce hunger in the city. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (73%); BALLOTS (73%); BEER & ALE (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); ARCHERY (60%); ICE SKATING (55%); WINTER SPORTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1023 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Show Winner, Now Bankrupt, Will Keep Vow

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
In September, the Georgia state schools superintendent won $1 million on the television game show ''Are You Smarter than a Fifth Grader?'' by answering questions about British history, marine life and world geography. She won praise and national publicity for choosing to donate all of the winnings to local schools. 
 But last week, the superintendent, Kathy Cox, and her husband, John, filed for bankruptcy. His home-building business has struggled amid the economic downturn, she said in a statement, and the couple was left without alternatives.
 ''The collapse of the home-building market has been well documented, and small builders, like my husband, have been hit especially hard,'' the statement said. ''This was a gut-wrenching decision, but in the end, we felt that we had no choice.''
 Ms. Cox will fulfill her pledge of $1 million to three Georgia schools for special-needs children, according to Dana Tofig, a spokesman for the State Department of Education. She has established a foundation to handle the money, which will be distributed no later than next month, Mr. Tofig said. 
 The couple filed papers last week listing $3.5 million in liabilities and $649,728 in assets, The Associated Press reported. 
 Ms. Cox said in the statement that the bankruptcy would not affect her performance as the overseer of the state's 1.7 million public school children.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathy Cox 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HISTORY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%) GEORGIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1024 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Texas Pastor's Advice for Better Marriage: More Sex, More Often

BYLINE: By GRETEL C. KOVACH

DATELINE: GRAPEVINE, Tex. 

 BODY:
And on the seventh day, there was no rest for married couples. A week after the Rev. Ed Young challenged husbands and wives among his flock of 20,000 to strengthen their unions through Seven Days of Sex, his advice was -- keep it going.
 Mr. Young, an author, a television host and the pastor of the evangelical Fellowship Church, issued his call for a week of ''congregational copulation'' among married couples on Nov. 16, while pacing in front of a large bed. Sometimes he reclined on the paisley coverlet while flipping through a Bible, emphasizing his point that it is time for the church to put God back in the bed. 
 ''Today we're beginning this sexperiment, seven days of sex,'' he said, with his characteristic mix of humor, showmanship and Scripture. ''How to move from whining about the economy to whoopee!''
 On Sunday parishioners at the Grapevine branch watched a prerecorded sermon from Mr. Young and his wife, Lisa, on jumbo screens over a candlelit stage. ''I know there's been a lot of love going around this week, among the married couples,'' one of the church musicians said, strumming on a guitar before a crowd of about 3,000.
 Mrs. Young, dressed in knee-high black boots and jeans, said that after a week of having sex every day, or close to it, ''some of us are smiling.'' For others grappling with infidelities, addictions to pornography or other bitter hurts, ''there's been some pain; hopefully there's been some forgiveness, too.''
 Mr. Young advised the couples to ''keep on doing what you've been doing this week. We should try to double up the amount of intimacy we have in marriage. And when I say intimacy, I don't mean holding hands in the park or a back rub.''
 Mr. Young, known simply as Ed to his parishioners, and his wife, both 47, have been married for 26 years and have four children, including twins. They have firsthand experience with some of the barriers to an intimate sex life in marriage, including careers, exhaustion, outside commitments, and ''kids,'' a word that Mr. Young told church members stands for ''keeping intimacy at a distance successfully.''
 But if you make the time to have sex, it will bring you closer to your spouse and to God, he has said. You will perform better at work, leave a loving legacy for your children to follow and may even prevent an extramarital affair.
 ''If you've said, 'I do,' do it,'' he said. As for single people, ''I don't know, try eating chocolate cake,'' he said.
 The sex-starved marriage has been the topic of at least two recent books, ''365 Nights'' and ''Just Do It.'' But Mr. Young's call from the pulpit gave the discussion an added charge.
 It should not, in his view. This is not a gimmick or a publicity stunt, Mr. Young says. Just look at the sensuousness of the Song of Solomon, or Genesis: ''two shall become one flesh,'' or Corinthians: ''do not deprive each other of sexual relations.''
 ''For some reason the church has not talked about it, but we need to,'' he said, speaking by telephone Friday night on his way to South Africa for a mission trip. There is no shame in marital sex, he added, ''God thought it up, it was his idea.''
 Those who attend Fellowship's location here or one of several satellite churches in the Dallas area and one in Miami are used to Mr. Young's provocative style. (The real ''f word'' in the marital boudoir, he says, is ''forgiveness.'') But the sex challenge was a bit much for some of his church members, who sat with arms crossed in uncomfortable silence, he recalls, while many in the audience gave him an enthusiastic applause.
 One parishioner, Rob Hulsey, 25, said his Baptist relatives raised their eyebrows about it, but he summed up the reaction of many husbands at Fellowship Church when he first heard about the sex challenge -- ''Yay!'' 
 A week later, he and his wife, who are expecting a baby and have two older children, could not stop holding hands during the sermon. His wife, Madeline Hulsey, 32, said she was just as thrilled to spend a week focusing on her husband. Usually, ''we start to kiss, and it's knock knock knock, Mom!'' she said.
 Others found that, like smiling when you are not particularly happy, having sex when they did not feel like it improved their mood. Just eight months into their marriage, Amy and Cody Waddell had not been very amorous since Cody admitted he had had an affair. 
 ''Intimacy has been a struggle for us, working through all that,'' Ms. Waddell said. ''This week really brought us back together, physically and emotionally.''
 It is not always easy to devote time for your spouse, Pastor Young admitted. Just three days into the sex challenge he said he was so tired after getting up before dawn to talk about the importance of having more sex in marriage that he crashed on the bed around 8 p.m. on Tuesday night.
 Mrs. Young tried to shake him awake, telling her husband, ''Come on, it's the sex challenge.'' But Mr. Young murmured, ''Let's just double up tomorrow,'' and went back to sleep.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Madeline and Rob Hulsey on Sunday after the weeklong sex challenge for married couples at Fellowship Church in Grapevine, Tex. The evangelical church has 20,000 members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN TRIEB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (92%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); MUSIC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1025 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Job Centers See Crush Of People In Need

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 

 BODY:
They have little in common: Ron Jones, 52, short and strong, a union carpenter with decades of work experience; and Jerome Grant, 20, tall and thin, a Jamaican immigrant with a degree in culinary arts. But the economy has pushed them to the same difficult place.
 On a recent morning, they sat across from each other at a one-stop career center here, feverishly applying for two months of temporary work with United Parcel Service. The pay was $8.50 an hour. There were 150 slots, and more than 300 applicants. 
 ''You just hope you get your name called,'' Mr. Grant said, eyeing the interviewers. Mr. Jones agreed, saying, ''You got to get in where you fit in.''
 If a fit can be found anywhere, it would probably be here at one of 2,942 one-stop career centers that Congress established 10 years ago. They each play host to a web of federal programs for the needy or unemployed, offering training, job listings and, in most states, access to welfare programs like food stamps and unemployment insurance. 
 Essentially, they are the emergency rooms of today's sick economy -- and they are increasingly overwhelmed. Just a few feet from Mr. Jones, Lequila McGauley, a single mother of two in heels, was also hoping for a chance to carry boxes. Gregory Sapp was learning to use a computer for the first time at age 52. 
 A few years ago, they were working. Now, with the nation's jobless claims at a 16-year high, they are among the 20 million people expected to use federal workforce services in 2008, up from 14 million in 2005, according to the Labor Department. 
 Congress has extended unemployment benefits, which helps, but the Department of Labor also reports that this year's federal budget for workforce programs was cut by 1.74 percent, to $3.7 billion, continuing a decrease of 14 percent from 2000 to 2007. 
 Economists say the full impact is easy for lawmakers to miss. Many people apply for unemployment through the Internet, cutting down on actual lines. And those most in need are largely invisible -- unskilled, less educated and disproportionately black or from immigrant communities.
 ''It's a mix of the most vulnerable and people who are in a state of shock,'' said Lawrence F. Katz, a former chief economist at the Labor Department who teaches at Harvard.
 Here in Broward County, the real estate boom was bigger and so was the bust. As a result, in the last three months, 36,000 people have come looking for jobs through the one-stop system, an increase of 60 percent over last year, while the number of jobs posted has declined by more than a third.
 The number of families receiving public assistance has also jumped by 40 percent. 
 ''The current state of things has affected just about everybody, from the lowest to the highest,'' said Kelly Allen, a vice president of Workforce One, the public-private partnership that runs this one-stop and two others in the county. ''And it really puts those folks who may have been on the edge further behind.''
 The race to survive begins every morning. On a recent day, long lines started to form at the county's largest one-stop office in Fort Lauderdale within an hour of its 8 a.m. opening. Dozens of men and women waited patiently, standing or sitting in blue chairs near a sign that said ''America's People ... America's Talent ... America's Strength!''
 Mr. Sapp, working on an assessment of his current skills (graphic arts, no; finance, no), said he was hoping for an office job. He had worked most of his life behind the wheel, or at a stove. ''I was a jack of all trades,'' Mr. Sapp said, ''but my specialty was cooking.''
 He started to struggle in 2000, during the last economic dip, and in March of last year, he was let go from a catering company. Temporary jobs became all he could find: a swing shift working security; a Sunday missing church for a few hours of manual labor. And now, he said, those jobs had dried up, too. 
 ''I'm just tired of sitting around,'' Mr. Sapp said. ''I'm used to being active.''
 And then he smiled, revealing a front tooth like an exclamation point. When asked why, he said, ''Things have to get better because it can't get any worse.'' He said that he was more hopeful because President-elect Barack Obama would soon be in the White House, and that he could wait a few years for the new president to ''put in action what he promised the American people.''
 ''I feel blessed,'' he said. ''Really blessed.''
 His positive outlook was all the more striking with additional conversation. Mr. Sapp, whose eyes brightened when he spoke about cooking, said he now went to food pantries to stay fed. His divorce five years ago left him alone, and because he could not afford to pay rent he lived in what he described as ''a barter situation.'' He shares with a sick older man and woman, cooking, cleaning and caring for them in exchange for lodging.
 Others at the one-stop also said that cobbling life together with family and friends had become the norm. 
 Mr. Grant, who came here from Jamaica five years ago with plans to send money home, survives with the help of his girlfriend. Mr. Jones said he had gotten by since February -- the last time his carpentry skills brought him steady work -- with unemployment insurance, plus help from his 28-year-old daughter. 
 Ms. McGauley, meanwhile, said she could not survive without her sister and mother. ''The hardest part for me is the day care aspect,'' she said.
 Her daughter, Janiya, 2, stood quietly beside her digging through a pint-sized purse. Like many others, they had been to the one-stop before. This time Ms. McGauley arrived around 9 a.m. to apply for the U.P.S. job, to be a driver's assistant from now until Christmas. She waited several hours for an interview, and unlike much of the competition she had relevant experience. From 2000 to 2004, she said, she had served in the Army working on supply logistics. She also worked part time for DHL before being let go in July. 
 She said she would prefer a full-time job, doing just about anything. But she also acknowledged the reality. Unemployment among blacks like herself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Grant, Mr. Sapp and nearly every other customer in the Fort Lauderdale one-stop reached 11.1 percent in October, far above the national average of 6.5 percent. 
 The Princeton scholar Cornel West, who is black, highlighted such figures in a recent appearance at the Miami book fair, noting that the election of Mr. Obama could not make the nation ''post-racial'' or ''race transcendent'' when such disparities still existed. 
 But like many others here, Ms. McGauley had more immediate concerns -- her expectations more kitchen table than ivory tower. ''I just want to pay a bill, and get some Christmas gifts,'' she said. A few weeks out was as far ahead as she could see. ''I just want to get to next year and say, 'O.K., it's time to start over,' '' she said. ''I just got to keep going until then.''
 Later on, she said she had started receiving a little help from the government; $336 a month in food stamps since June. But that was it -- no unemployment, no cash assistance. Like millions of other Americans coming through one-stop centers across the country, she said she really just wanted work. 
 Her interview with the U.P.S. recruiter seemed to go well. So did the interviews for Mr. Jones and Mr. Grant, who left with a smile as bright as his sunshine-yellow shirt. ''I got a 30-70 chance,'' he said, seeming to stand taller. ''Seventy percent I'll get it.''
 The recruiters told them that a background check would be completed quickly and that they would be notified in the next few days if they were hired. Ms. McGauley said she was told to be ready to work as of the following Monday, and initially she said she felt sure that she would get the job. But it was the 30th position she had applied for since early November, and the longer she waited without getting a call, the less sure she felt. 
 ''I'm kind of skeptical now,'' Ms. McGauley said a few days after applying. ''I'm going to check out another job at Home Depot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People seeking work last week at the one-stop career center in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., which offers job training, listings and access to several welfare programs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (87%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (66%); SINGLE PARENTS (51%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (65%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1026 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Just Name, Rank and SAT Number

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Test Passes, Colleges Fail,'' by Peter D. Salins (Op-Ed, Nov. 18):
 This argument for the predictive power of the SAT is not as powerful as it might appear and, worse, could be used to support a backward-thinking policy of increasing the test's weight in admission decisions. 
 Mr. Salins reports only half the experiment: raising SAT admission standards at some campuses of the State University of New York, while leaving high-school grade-point requirements untouched, significantly raised graduation rates, he says. 
 But what if the reverse experiment had been conducted: raising G.P.A. requirements while leaving SAT requirements untouched? It would probably have had the same positive effect. 
 Why? Because high SAT scores and grades are both, to a degree, markers of positive individual characteristics that equip a young person for serious, sustained intellectual engagement. 
 The SUNY experiment modestly altered the admitted student pool toward more prepared students, but their slightly higher SAT scores in no way deserve attention as the cause of their success. It's the genuinely causal variables that make a student ready for college that we should be seeking to understand.
 Deanna Kuhn Bronxville, N.Y., Nov. 18, 2008
 The writer is a professor of psychology and education at Teachers College, Columbia University.
 To the Editor:
 Peter D. Salins's argument would be stronger if it addressed which of the following objections: 
 A. Higher SAT scores correspond with higher socioeconomic status, and thus with a student's ability to pay four years of tuition.
 B. Schools that raised admissions standards also attracted more motivated applicants, who were in turn more likely to graduate.
 C. Just as grading standards vary, so do graduation requirements.
 D. All of the above.
 Nicholas Danforth Washington, Nov. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It's hardly surprising that restricting college enrollment to applicants with the highest test scores increases graduation rates. So does admitting students with the best high school grades, no matter how they performed on standardized exams. 
 This has been demonstrated by the University of Texas, which guarantees admission to students in the top 10 percent of their high school class.
 In fact, taking the cream of the crop based on any prediction factor increases undergraduate performance. The real question for admissions offices is whether tests like the SAT add anything of value to the information already on hand.
 A growing number of colleges and universities have concluded that applicants' grades, coursework, leadership and community service provide a richer and fairer way to forecast college success. That is why the experts, such as the National Association for College Admission Counseling, recommend that more schools consider test-optional policies. 
 Jesse Mermell Executive Director, FairTest Boston, Nov. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 What Peter D. Salins misses is the infinite variability of the individual. Take my group of friends, who graduated from the Bronx High School of Science in the 1980s. Here's how we did on the test, and how we are doing today:
 Of the four highest scorers, one is a doctor, one a lab technician, another is a book layout manager and the other is unemployed.
 I had a mediocre score and am now a management consultant. A friend with a similar score is a lawyer. 
 The person with the lowest score is a tenured professor at a major research university. 
 Obviously, our ability to succeed or to struggle had little to do with our SAT scores. In fact, three of the four high scorers struggled terribly with pulling their lives together and finding a career path.
 In the meantime, our college options were overly dictated by our SAT scores, causing our high school lives to be riddled with stress instead of excitement, and our colleges often turned out not to be the best fit for our talents. What a waste of young energy and potential.
 Lara Weitzman New York, Nov. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Using college graduation as the overarching criterion of success -- and claiming that the value of the SAT lies in its ability to predict this -- sets the success bar rather low. Most people hope that more will be obtained during the college years than a diploma.
 Susan Spieler New York, Nov. 18, 2008
 The writer is a psychologist and provides counseling for college applicants.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LENNY NAAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADES & GRADING (75%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); WRITERS (73%); RANKINGS (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1027 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Slide Show: A White Christmas: Early and on Stage
 A slide show of the latest incarnation of Irving Berlin's musical ''White Christmas,'' directed by Walter Bobbie and choreographed by Randy Skinner. It opened on Broadway at the Marquis Theater. Above, a scene from the show, with Stephen Bogardus as Bob Wallace sitting on a stool at center. Also, a review of the musical by Charles Isherwood and the trailer for the original 1954 ''White Christmas'' with Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye. 
 nytimes.com/theater
 SLIDESHOW: NEW YORK FOOTBALL
 Slide shows recapping how the Jets handed the Tennessee Titans their first defeat of the season, and how the Giants improved to 10-1 by beating the Arizona Cardinals.
 nytimes.com/sports
 SLIDESHOW: GETTING THEIR DUE
 Thousands of Mexicans worked on farms in the United States as part of a guest worker program from 1942 to 1964. Now, the Mexican government will pay them $3,500 in withheld wages. But first, the workers must present documents that are decades old.
 nytimes.com/national
 VIDEO: A DAY OF JOB HUNTING
 Video of a career center in Broward County, Fla. These centers are essentially the emergency rooms of today's sick economy, Damien Cave writes, and they are increasingly overwhelmed. 
 nytimes.com/national
 THE NEW TEAM
 Profiles of potential members of an Obama administration, a list of key appointments and the latest news on the transition as the president-elect prepares to take office.
 nytimes.com/politics
 SLIDESHOW: A NEW MUSEUM OF ISLAMIC ART IN QATAR
 Photographs of the Museum of Islamic Art, which opens next week in Doha, Qatar. The museum, below, was designed by I. M. Pei and is on a private island.
 nytimes.com/arts
 Question of the Day: How should Michelle Obama approach her new role as first lady? Share your thoughts at: nytimes.com/politics

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (75%); SPORTS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (68%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (66%); RELIGION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); ARIZONA CARDINALS (56%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) QATAR (93%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1028 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Reader's Digest Pushes On in Weak Climate

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Mary Berner hates the musical chimes that have played for decades in the Reader's Digest Association headquarters. She asked about replacing the ''1950s elevator music,'' she says, with rock 'n' roll, but she settled for updating the tunes, ''and the next step is we get rid of the chimes.''
 Ms. Berner has been a jolt to the system for this stodgiest of media companies since she became chief executive in a private equity takeover 20 months ago. She has replaced executives, sold unprofitable businesses and even set out to change the company's name, shaking it up any way she can. 
Most important, the company is taking risks, starting dozens of new magazines at a time when its peers are contracting.
 One of the biggest new ventures, to be announced Monday, is a multimedia partnership with Rick Warren, the renowned minister and author, hoping to tap into the vast audience for his book ''The Purpose Driven Life.''
 Together, they are creating a Christian membership organization, The Purpose Driven Connection, built on Mr. Warren's call to faith and charitable work. Paying members will receive a quarterly magazine edited by Mr. Warren, with DVDs and pull-out study guides in each issue, and access to a social networking Web site.
 The things that make Reader's Digest Association seem earnest or old-fashioned next to other big magazine publishers -- its small-town readership, and a traditional emphasis on faith, families, volunteerism and sober self-improvement -- appealed to Mr. Warren.
 ''They always have been interested in the practical aspects of helping people in their daily lives, so I think that's a good fit,'' he said.
 That description fits the 86-year-old Reader's Digest, which has the highest circulation of any consumer magazine in the United States, more than eight million. But the magazine is a small fraction of the operation -- one reason Ms. Berner is casting about for a new name for the company.
 Reader's Digest Association is a major direct marketing company, claiming data on 100 million American consumers. It publishes about 100 magazines in 79 counties, including decidedly un-hip publications that are some of the biggest sellers in the United States -- Taste of Home, Every Day with Rachael Ray and Family Handyman. The company also produces dozens of books each year, heavy on low-cost home maintenance and gardening.
 ''We're completely uncool and we embrace that,'' said Ms. Berner, 49. ''With what's going on in the economy, I think this is our moment. We're about average people getting by.''
 Ms. Berner and some of her team had worked at Conde Nast, the epitome of the upscale magazine business. But she says she always avoided that world's fashionable nightlife, preferring to be home for dinner with her four children.
 In that sense, Reader's Digest may suit her, but internally, current and former executives say, the company needed to change.
 At its leafy, low-rise headquarters in Pleasantville, N.Y., 25 miles from the publishing hub of Manhattan, there were still shades of the paternalistic, sleepy era of the company's founders, Lila Acheson and DeWitt Wallace. Employees went home at 4 p.m., received turkeys at Thanksgiving and worked surrounded by the Impressionist masterworks collected by the Wallaces, who died in the 1980s.
 Revenue and profit began a steady slide in the mid-1990s, when the company was publicly traded. It posted net losses in its last two fiscal years before being bought in early 2007 by a group led by Ripplewood Holdings, a private equity firm.
 ''We needed energy and imagination,'' said Albert L. Perruzza, senior vice president for global operations, who has been with the company since 1972. ''We needed to realize we're a multibrand company, not just Reader's Digest.''
 The transformation began under the previous regime, which bought Allrecipes.com and created Every Day with Rachel Ray, a big success.
 But the pace of change accelerated with the takeover. It had to, if only to support the $2 billion in debt the company took on in going private.
 The company has increased its revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- a rarity in the industry these days -- but because of debt service, it continues to operate in the red.
 It had published millions of pieces of writing over the decades, but barely knew what most of them were because they were not computerized. Now it has digitized 2.5 million articles and chapters, and put them to new uses.
 One of those new uses was a recently announced partnership with HowStuffWorks.com, to put some of that material into the site's searchable database. Another is the stepped-up pace of repackaging old material as books and one-off newsstand magazines.
 The company shed what was, historically, an almost disdainful attitude toward advertising, selling ads in Taste of Home for the first time, and on the back page of Reader's Digest.
 It created a Discovery Channel magazine for sale in several East Asian countries; a Canadian magazine, Best Health; and versions of Reader's Digest magazine in Ukraine and Serbia, among others. In February, it plans to publish a United States version of Best Health called Best You, and Fresh Home, an Americanized version of a successful Australian magazine.
 It started British and Australian versions of Allrecipes.com, and German and French editions are planned. Reader's Digest itself has been spruced up, with a brighter look and a new editor, Peggy Northrop.
 Any of the company's nearly 5,000 employees can send Ms. Berner anonymous e-mail messages, which she answers on an internal Web site. They are also invited to give report cards on her performance, and she often has breakfast with groups of employees.
 ''I'd rather change too much and get 20 percent of it wrong than not change enough,'' she said. ''And to do that, everybody has to buy in.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reader's Digest Association, under the leadership of Mary Berner, above right, is expanding as its peers slim down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Alyce Alston and Frank Lalli, executives at Reader's Digest, going over possible cover layouts for a new magazine called Purpose Driven. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MUSIC (90%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WRITERS (74%); FAMILY (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); DIRECT MARKETING (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%)

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (96%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: MARY G BERNER (90%); RACHAEL RAY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009



1029 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: The Obama Appeal

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
BARACK OBAMA may have figured out a way to stimulate the economy even before taking office: by being elected. 
 Merchandise commemorating, celebrating and -- in some instances -- practically canonizing Mr. Obama is being sold by companies large and small, institutional and entrepreneurial, familiar (Time Inc.) and not so (the American Historic Society).
 Consumers have already spent perhaps as much as $200 million on Obamabilia, two months before he will be inaugurated as the 44th president and another tidal wave of tchotchkes will be unleashed. 
 Mr. Obama ''has been the best-marketed presidential candidate, with the most sophisticated branding since John F. Kennedy used television to get elected'' in 1960, said Allen Adamson, managing director of the New York office of Landor Associates, a corporate and brand identity agency that is part of the WPP Group. ''So it's no surprise that once Obama was elected, people would try to cash in.''
 First came newspapers and magazines that reported on Mr. Obama's victory on Nov. 4 over John McCain. They were followed by spinoff stuff from publishers like posters, plaques and press plates of front pages; books; coffee mugs; and reprints of articles.
 The Los Angeles Times, owned by the Tribune Company, has sold $686,000 worth of Obama items. Sales of merchandise by The New York Times, which is devoting part of its online store to the president-elect (nytstore.com/obama), ''are between $1 million to $2 million,'' a spokeswoman for The New York Times Company, Catherine J. Mathis, said last week; the figures include revenue from reprints of the Nov. 5 issue of the newspaper.
 People magazine sold two million copies on newsstands of its Nov. 17 election issue; at $3.99 a copy, that totaled $7.98 million. A typical issue of the weekly magazine, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner, sells about 1.5 million copies on newsstands.
 A People sibling, Time magazine, published what it called a ''commemorative issue,'' dated Nov. 17, which was followed by a book, ''President Obama: The Path to the White House,'' in hard cover ($19.95) and soft cover ($12.95).
 More than 550,000 copies of the book have been published, said a spokeswoman for Time, Betsy Burton. ''It could go higher.''
 There are similar books being sold by the news media that include Life, another Time Inc. brand; Newsweek, part of the Washington Post Company; and USA Today, owned by the Gannett Company, in collaboration with the ABC News division of the Walt Disney Company.
 After the news-related products came Obama e-cards, from companies like Hewlett-Packard, which is inviting computer users to ''celebrate the Democratic victory with a free greeting card'' from the HP Creative Studio, available at hp.com/create; T-shirts from Web sites like ivoted4obamatee.com; and coins ''layered in pure 24 karat gold'' from faux mints like ecoins.com and the New England Mint.
 Last week, big companies that specialize in peddling so-called collectables, among them the Danbury Mint and Telebrands, got into the act. They began advertising on television, online and in newspapers items that include ''the President Barack Obama Commemorative Photo,'' priced at $108.90, which is composed of ''seven images of a history-making president and two 24 karat gold-plated patriotic medallions,'' and ''the Historic Victory Commemorative Plate,'' priced at $26.98, made of ''quality porcelain'' with a ''22 karat gold rim.''
 The comedian Lewis Black ranted about the trend on Wednesday on ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart'' on Comedy Central. He derided the merchandise as ''cheap and ugly'' and proclaimed that it had ''already earned a permanent place on'' a version of Mount Rushmore devoted to junk (he used a saltier term).Could the schlocky nature of the Obama products trivialize his election and by extension his presidency?
 ''He's a 'polebrity,' a political celebrity,'' said Marc E. Babej, president at Reason Inc. in New York, a brand and corporate strategy consultant, adding that the merchandise ''reminds me of the last time I was in Buenos Aires, looking at all the Evita Peron busts and paintings.''
 But rather than ''hagiography in action,'' as took place in Argentina, Mr. Babej said, the ''degree and nature of the adulation of Obama, the iconization, if you will, reflects that this is a seminal character coming together with a seminal event, the first black person becoming president, at a moment in time that everyone recognizes as important.''
 Still, Mr. Babej said, it can potentially be a pitfall for Mr. Obama to ''receive so early on this kind of adulation,'' because it could ''set him up to be a more polarizing figure.''
 Mr. Adamson of Landor said he did not believe that Mr. Obama was diminished by the marketing blitz surrounding the election.
 ''If he wasn't trivialized by everything that took place during the campaign,'' Mr. Adamson said, ''I don't think it's a risk.''
 Besides, he added, laughing, ''Nothing sells like a winner.''
 Asked if there would have been a similar surge of products if Mr. McCain had defeated Mr. Obama, Mr. Adamson said it would have been unlikely because ''everything he did was more traditional.''
 Another reason for all the Obama merchandise, Mr. Adamson said, was the desire of black Americans to collect memorabilia to mark his election as ''a major historical moment.''
 In a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, 55 percent of the African-American respondents said they were saving a newspaper that reported the election results.
 The decision by media companies to sell Obama products was questioned by critics who wondered whether it compromised the impartiality of their properties.
 ''The idea this is some kind of implied endorsement is silly,'' said Richard Stengel, the managing editor of Time magazine.
 ''We're talking about history here,'' he added, and those who buy the memorabilia are ''looking for a talisman of history, to mark a milestone in their life and the life of the country.''
 ''Yes, journalists are biased,'' Mr. Stengel said. ''They're biased in favor of a story that makes news and is what our readers are interested in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VictoryPlate.com is selling commemorative Obama photos, medallions and plates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BRANDING (89%); NEWSSTANDS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BESTSELLERS (77%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BRAND EQUITY (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); PUBLISHING (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (86%); GANNETT CO INC (83%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%); WALT DISNEY CO (80%); LANDOR ASSOCIATES (56%); WPP PLC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (83%); NYT (NYSE) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (80%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (56%); WPP (LSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (86%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (86%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); ALLEN ADAMSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1030 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Britain Poised to Announce Stimulus

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
The British government is expected on Monday to announce a cut in the sales tax as part of a package of measures to stimulate the economy.
 ''The case that we have got to face is 'do you take action now to prevent permanent damage later,' '' Prime Minister Gordon Brown said Sunday on ''Politics Show,'' a BBC television program. ''To do nothing would be irresponsible.'' 
 Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer, is poised to release details of a stimulus plan and tax cuts on Monday afternoon in a prebudget report to the House of Commons. The report is made each autumn and provides an update on the state of the economy and public finances and sets out the direction for government policy until the budget is announced in the spring.
 The number of people in Britain receiving jobless payments increased at the fastest pace in 16 years in October, reaching 980,900, and the Bank of England predicted that the economy would shrink through much of 2009.
 According to media reports, Mr. Brown would temporarily cut the value-added tax by 2.5 points to 15 percent.
 Including the cost of various tax breaks, The Sunday Times reported that the government would spend about $:16 billion, or $24 billion, to keep the economy from slowing further. The Sunday Telegraph put the cost to taxpayers at $:15 billion to $:20 billion.
 The British Treasury did not return calls seeking comment Sunday night.
 Mr. Brown refused to be drawn out in the BBC interview on the size of the stimulus, and he brushed aside concerns that more government spending would require higher taxes later.
 ''You've got to give real help to businesses and families now,'' he said. ''Not to give real help now would cause more damage later.''
 The additional spending will be ''temporary, timely and targeted,'' he added.
 The opposition Conservative Party has accused the government of hiding the true cost to taxpayers.
 David Cameron, the leader of the Conservative Party, said on its Web site that Mr. Brown should ''start telling the truth about the state of our public finances and debt levels.''
 ''You cannot borrow your way out of a borrowing crisis,'' Mr. Cameron said.
 But Mr. Brown, in the BBC interview, defended the measures as necessary to hold up Britain's end of a deal coordinated with Group of 20 leaders last weekend in Washington.
 ''This is a global crisis that needs global answers,'' he said.
 Mr. Brown noted that the United States, China, Japan, India and European countries were all seeking to bolster growth through deficit spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); VALUE ADDED TAX (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (79%); DAVID CAMERON (79%); ALISTAIR DARLING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1031 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Initial Steps by Obama Suggest a Bipartisan Flair

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
In the third week of his transition to power, President-elect Barack Obama is working to build a cordial relationship with Republicans by seeking guidance on policy proposals, asking for advice on appointments and hoping to avoid perceptions of political arrogance given the wide margins of his victory. 
 Mr. Obama has made calls to Republican leaders, and he dispatched Rahm Emanuel, his new chief of staff, to meet with them on Capitol Hill. He asked Republicans to support his economic recovery plan and on Monday will name Timothy F. Geithner, who has worked with the Bush administration's team, as his choice for Treasury secretary. 
 And while he has yet to name any Republicans to cabinet-level positions as pledged, he is strongly considering James L. Jones for national security adviser, a retired Marine general who appeared at a campaign event with Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, earlier this year.
 ''I'd say, so far so good,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a member of the Republican leadership team. ''If he follows through on that, he'll find plenty of Republicans willing to help him.'' 
 Mr. Alexander added, ''It's almost completely up to him.''
 Mr. Obama has shied away from inserting himself in the still-to-be resolved Senate contests in Georgia and Minnesota. While he recorded a radio advertisement for the Democratic candidate in Georgia, advisers said he would not visit there, to avoid appearing to be too political as he works to deliver on his campaign pledge to bridge the partisan divide in Washington.
 The bipartisan concessions have infuriated many liberal Democrats but offer a window into how Mr. Obama hopes to approach the presidency. The criticism from the left illustrated the challenges he faces as the symbolism of reaching out to Republicans gives way to disagreements over the Iraq war, taxes and a health care overhaul, particularly considering the size of the Democratic majorities in Congress and the pressures that will bring from his own party.
 Mr. Obama has sent centrist and pragmatic signals by selecting Mr. Geithner as Treasury secretary and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York as secretary of state, while offering more traditionally liberal signs by delegating the health care overhaul to Tom Daschle, a former Senate Democratic leader. 
 But should Mr. Obama go forward with postponing the upper-income tax increase, as some advisers have recommended, it would be a powerful way of attracting Republican support on the economic package he outlined over the weekend.
 Liberal activists lit up the blogosphere last week when Mr. Obama absolved Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and asked Democrats not to strip him of his chairmanship of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs despite Mr. Lieberman's endorsement of Mr. McCain for president. Mr. Obama also drew ire from some partisans when he met with Mr. McCain and discussed potential Republican appointments to the cabinet. 
 Chris Bowers, who writes on the OpenLeft.com blog, complained that the foreign policy lineup was a center-right team. ''I feel incredibly frustrated,'' Mr. Bowers wrote last week. ''Progressives are being entirely left out of Obama's major appointments so far.''
 It is hardly unusual for an incoming president to extend his hand to members of the opposing party. (Mr. Obama is spending a good bit of time, aides said, studying the approach of President Abraham Lincoln.) What is far more difficult, though, is sustaining the radiance of the bipartisan honeymoon, a difficulty President Bush encountered eight years ago after early signs of goodwill to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, in their pursuit of an education overhaul.
 Mr. Obama's challenge is no different -- it is perhaps even more acute -- as he works to straddle the partisan divide that has grown deeper over the last eight years. Advisers said he was well aware of the balancing act awaiting him, particularly as he worked to avoid disappointing or angering Democrats on the left, a constituency that was vital to his winning the party's nomination.
 ''Even though the majorities are big, the challenges are of such a magnitude that we're all inheriting, it's going to require bipartisanship to solve,'' Mr. Emanuel said in an interview after completing a round of meetings with Congressional Republicans. ''We're not lip-synching bipartisanship here.''
 Mr. Emanuel, who was formerly the No. 4 Democrat in the House and helped expand the party's majority in Congress, signaled to Republicans that the president-elect wanted to work alongside them. He handed out his personal cellphone number, urging them to call at any hour if they needed to reach him, and he asked them to submit their ideas for the economic recovery plan and other issues of potential agreement.
 Even when they were in the majority, Republicans were often frustrated with the Bush administration's lack of outreach to Congress. They said Mr. Emanuel's arrival on Capitol Hill less than three weeks after the election -- though no breakthroughs were made on issues -- sent a good preliminary message.
 ''I think the new administration is off to a good start,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky. ''This is an opportunity to tackle big issues and to do them in the middle. And it would not be a good idea for the new administration, in my view, to go down a laundry list of left-wing proposals and try to jam them through the Congress.''
 The bipartisan potential of the Obama administration will be easier to determine, Mr. McConnell and other Republicans said, when more cabinet appointments are known. Mr. Obama has pledged to nominate more than a token Republican to his cabinet, though positions are filling up quickly and only a handful of Republicans have been mentioned.
 One sign of Mr. Obama's commitment to bipartisanship, several Republicans said, will be whether he keeps Robert M. Gates on as defense secretary. Democrats familiar with the Obama transition said Mr. Gates was among contenders for the post. The selection is not scheduled to be announced until after Thanksgiving.
 ''From the point of view of most members of the Senate, that would be a welcome appointment,'' said Mr. Alexander, the chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. ''It would show that the president-elect is thinking more broadly and bipartisan than just a narrow base of antiwar activists.''
 Mr. Obama's greatest challenge in actually achieving a bipartisan tone includes navigating the demands of Democrats in Congress. Even though Democrats are now two seats shy of having 60 votes in the Senate, Republican cooperation will be needed on big-ticket items.
 Mr. McConnell, the top Republican in the Senate, dug up a quotation from Mr. Obama after he was elected to the Senate in 2004, when Republicans were in control of both chambers and the White House. Late last week on Capitol Hill, Mr. McConnell read it aloud, with the words of the president-elect now sounding oddly prescient.
 ''Whoever's in power is going to have to govern with some modesty and some desire to work with the other side of the aisle,'' Mr. McConnell read. ''That's certainly the approach I would advise Democrats should we regain control.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Lamar Alexander, left, and Mitch McConnell, at lectern, say the Obama transition team is off to a cooperative start. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX LAW (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (62%); INCOME TAX (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JAMES L JONES (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1032 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: U.S. APPROVES PLAN TO HELP CITIGROUP WEATHER LOSSES

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Gretchen Morgenson and Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Federal regulators approved a radical plan to stabilize Citigroup in an arrangement in which the government could soak up billions of dollars in losses at the struggling bank, the government announced late Sunday night.
 The complex plan calls for the government to back about $306 billion in loans and securities and directly invest about $20 billion in the company. The plan, emerging after a harrowing week in the financial markets, is the government's third effort in three months to contain the deepening economic crisis and may set the precedent for other multibillion-dollar financial rescues. 
 Citigroup executives presented a plan to federal officials on Friday evening after a weeklong plunge in the company's share price threatened to engulf other big banks. In tense, round-the-clock negotiations that stretched until almost midnight on Sunday, it became clear that the crisis of confidence had to be defused now or the financial markets could plunge further. 
 Whether this latest rescue plan will help calm the markets is uncertain, given the stress in the financial system caused by losses at Citigroup and other banks. Each previous government effort initially seemed to reassure investors, leading to optimism that the banking system had steadied. But those hopes faded as the economic outlook worsened, raising worries that more bank loans were turning sour.
 President-elect Barack Obama was also working over the weekend to shore up confidence in the rapidly faltering economy. Mr. Obama signaled that he would pursue a far more ambitious plan of spending and tax cuts than he had outlined during his campaign and planned to announce his economic team on Monday. Some Democrats in Congress, meantime, were calling for the government to spend as much as $700 billion to stimulate the economy over the next two years. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke was involved during the discussions. 
 Mr. Obama's expected choice for Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, played a crucial role in the negotiations on Friday but took a less active role once news of his appointment was circulated. While the initial focus of government officials was to help the embattled company, they may also seek to draw up an industrywide plan that could help other banks. 
 The plan could herald another shift in the government's financial rescue. The Treasury Department first proposed buying troubled assets from banks but then reversed course and began injecting capital directly into financial institutions. Neither plan, however, restored investors' confidence for long.
 ''By intervening, they are giving the market some heart to temporarily stave off some fear -- but you can only push that so much,'' said Charles R. Geisst, a financial historian and professor at Manhattan College.
 Banking industry officials said the decision to support Citigroup, while necessary, could draw a firestorm of criticism from smaller institutions that were not big enough to be saved.
 Under the agreement, Citigroup and regulators will back up to $306 billion of largely residential and commercial real estate loans and certain other assets, which will remain on the bank's balance sheet. Citigroup will shoulder losses on the first $29 billion of that portfolio. 
 Any remaining losses will be split between Citigroup and the government, with the bank absorbing 10 percent and the government absorbing 90 percent. The Treasury Department will use its bailout fund to assume up to $5 billion of losses. If necessary, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will bear the next $10 billion of losses. Beyond that, the Federal Reserve will guarantee any additional losses.
 In exchange, Citigroup will issue $7 billion of preferred stock to government regulators. In addition, the government is buying $20 billion of preferred stock in Citigroup. The preferred shares will pay an 8 percent dividend and will slightly erode the value of shares held by investors.
 Citigroup will also agree to certain executive compensation restrictions, which will be reviewed by regulators. It will also put in place the F.D.I.C.'s loan modification plan, which is similar to one it recently announced.
 The government said it was taking the step to bolster the economy while protecting taxpayers. ''We will continue to use all of our resources to preserve the strength of our banking institutions and promote the process of repair and recovery and to manage risks,'' the regulators said in a joint statement Sunday.
 Inside Citigroup's Park Avenue headquarters, the mood was tense. Through the weekend, Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary and an influential executive and director at Citigroup, held several discussions with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, spoke to regulators and lawmakers. Mr. Pandit also met with Citigroup's board on Saturday, and there was no indication that they would seek to replace him. 
 Once the nation's largest and mightiest financial company, Citigroup lost half its value in the stock market last week as the bank confronted a crisis of confidence. Although Citigroup executives maintain the bank is sound, investors worry that its finances are deteriorating. Citigroup has suffered staggering losses for a year now, and few analysts think the pain is over. Many investors worry that it needs more capital. 
 With more than $2 trillion in assets and operations in more than 100 countries, Citigroup is so large and interconnected that its troubles could spill over into other institutions. Citigroup is widely viewed, both in Washington and on Wall Street, as too big to be allowed to fail. 
 Citigroup executives reached out to the Federal Reserve and the Treasury last week as they sought to stabilize the company's stock. All major bank stocks have been battered in recent weeks, including those of Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley. 
 Citigroup's shares have been hit particularly hard. A year ago they were trading at about $30; on Friday they closed at $3.77.
 The plan under discussion is reminiscent of the one that Citigroup and the F.D.I.C. worked out in October with Citigroup's proposal to buy the Wachovia Corporation. That deal fell through, however, when Wells Fargo swept in with a higher offer. 
 Under that plan, Citigroup agreed to bear a certain level of Wachovia's losses, with the federal agency absorbing the rest. In exchange, Citigroup agreed to give the F.D.I.C. preferred stock. 
 It is also similar to an effort orchestrated by Swiss financial regulators for UBS, another big global bank. Last month, the Swiss central bank and UBS reached an agreement to transfer as much as $60 billion of troubled securities and other assets from UBS's balance sheet to a separate entity. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Citigroup's swoon has set off worries that other big banks could follow. (pg.A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); TAX LAW (64%); HISTORY (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1033 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: A Ford Scion Looks Beyond Bailout to a Green Agenda

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
As the Detroit auto companies contend with their worst financial crisis in decades, the most famous American auto executive has stayed largely out of sight.
 But William C. Ford Jr., the executive chairman and scion of the founding family of the Ford Motor Company, has been preparing for a bigger role in the industry's plan for survival.
 While General Motors and Chrysler plead to Congress for a bailout, Mr. Ford has reached out to President-elect Barack Obama in hopes that his company can benefit from the administration's longer-term strategies for the auto industry.
 Mr. Ford has been working behind the scenes, meeting one-on-one with Mr. Obama in August, conferring with his senior economic advisers, and teaming up with Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan to push a vision of a leaner, greener auto industry. 
 With Detroit on the brink of disaster, the great-grandson of Henry Ford could play a critical role in how the Obama administration decides to assist the companies financially and shape broader energy policies.
 ''One of the things that I feel very encouraged about is the president-elect and where he'd like to take this country in terms of energy, and I completely buy into his vision,'' Mr. Ford said in an interview, his first since the Big Three approached Washington lawmakers about a rescue plan.
 He can afford to take a longer view because Ford, unlike G.M. and Chrysler, does not need an immediate infusion of government aid to stay in business.
 While Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, joined his counterparts from G.M. and Chrysler in testifying before Congress last week, Ford is not asking for an immediate bailout from Washington for now.
 The company has enough cash on hand -- $18.9 billion, as well as a $10.7 billion line of credit with private lenders -- that will keep it running through 2009 without cutting development of its next generation of more fuel-efficient cars.
 While Ford cannot continue to burn cash indefinitely, it is also not on the verge of bankruptcy like G.M. and Chrysler. And the health of the company presents a unique opportunity for Mr. Ford, 51, who has been chairman of the company since 1999 and served five years as its chief executive.
 ''We have a plan that is high-tech, product-driven, which is a fuel economy plan,'' he said. ''And we have kept that plan in place under these tough conditions.''
 In August, Mr. Ford shared those plans with Mr. Obama, then candidate for president, when he was in Lansing, Mich., for a speech on energy policy.
 ''We talked about the electrification of our industry and other fuel-economy issues,'' Mr. Ford said. ''He's a great listener and he asked all the right questions.''
 Mr. Ford said they focused on a few specific, industrywide issues. One was government help to put more electric cars on the road.
 ''One of the things we need to sort out as a country is batteries,'' Mr. Ford said. ''We really don't want to trade one foreign dependency, oil, for another foreign dependency, batteries.'' The main producers of batteries are Asian manufacturers.
 He does not profess to have Mr. Obama's ear yet on the how to save Detroit. But Mr. Ford is keeping close contact through Governor Granholm, a member of the president-elect's economic advisory team.
 ''I think he is a key player,'' she said of Mr. Ford. ''He has tremendous credibility with respect to the serious issues related to renewable energy and energy security for this nation.''
 Mr. Ford has been Detroit's most vocal environmentalist since becoming the first family member to run Ford since his uncle, Henry Ford II.
 Even when Ford was living off profits from its big sport utility vehicles, he was pushing to take the company in a greener direction. Ford was the first automaker to bring to market a hybrid version of an S.U.V., the Ford Escape, and it is introducing a new line of Ecoboost engines next year that will cut fuel consumption by up to 20 percent. 
 The Ford family controls the automaker by virtue of its 70.85 million shares of Class B stock, which carry 40 percent voting rights for the entire company.
 But the family's wealth has taken a drastic hit as losses have mounted at Ford and its stock price has plunged.
 The family's Class B shares were worth $101 million at Friday's closing price of $1.43 a share, down 81 percent from a year ago when the shares had a value of $532 million.
 Mr. Ford also owns 5.2 million shares individually, which have dropped in value to $7.4 million from $39 million.
 ''The family clearly has taken an enormous financial beating,'' Mr. Ford said. ''But the family still is here and standing behind the company.'' 
 The company is in better shape than G.M. and Chrysler, but just barely. Ford has lost $24 billion since 2006, and it reduced its cash cushion by $7.9 billion in the third quarter this year. 
 Two years ago, Ford was seen as the riskiest bet in the industry to survive when it mortgaged nearly all its assets, even its blue Ford oval trademark, to secure a huge line of credit.
 Now, with the collapse of the credit market, G.M. and Chrysler cannot borrow money on their assets and could face insolvency by the end of the year without federal assistance.
 Mr. Ford said his company was interested in being able to access government loans only if the economy continues to deteriorate. ''We're trying very hard not to need it,'' he said. ''Our plan is to have our own liquidity and get through without it.''
 Ford has already undergone an extensive revamping at the direction of Mr. Mulally, who succeeded Mr. Ford as the automaker's chief executive in 2006.
 Since then, the company has cut 40,000 jobs, sold off three of its brands and begun an effort to transform its truck-heavy vehicle fleet with an influx of smaller, more fuel-efficient cars.
 Mr. Ford remained in Detroit last week as Mr. Mulally endured two days of harsh criticism by lawmakers over Detroit's financial plight, along with G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, and Chrysler's chairman, Robert L. Nardelli.
 In the interview, Mr. Ford said that some of the skepticism from Congress about the industry's future was justified. ''I completely understand the frustration that Americans feel and it came out loud and clear this week,'' he said. ''I don't think we told our story terribly well.''
 After 15 years of relying on pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s for profit, Ford is putting the bulk of its capital investment into smaller cars.
 Much of the debate in Washington has centered on the best source of government money for an emergency loan program for Detroit.
 One is a $25 billion low-interest loan program already passed by Congress that provides money specifically for improvements in fuel efficiency.
 Ford has applied for $7 billion of those loans, which are administered by the Department of Energy. Mr. Ford expects that any aid from the Obama administration in the future will be tied to improvements in fuel economy.
 ''We just submitted our application to the D.O.E. and what's interesting is in the next two years, 75 percent of our vehicles will qualify for their definition of advanced vehicle technology,'' he said.
 Mr. Ford said he was committed to helping Mr. Obama end America's dependence on foreign oil whether Detroit gets a bailout before the end of the year or not.
 ''It's all about fuel economy and energy independence,'' he said. ''I passionately believe that Ford can and should be part of that solution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Alan Mulally, chief executive of Ford
Bob King, vice president of the United Automobile Workers
Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan
Rory Gamble, of the U.A.W.
and William C. Ford Jr., the executive chairman of Ford, in Dearborn last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B1)
 William C. Ford Jr., 51, the great-grandson of Henry Ford, at Ford headquarters in Dearborn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (72%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (73%); ALAN MULALLY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1034 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Reaction To 3rd Try At Bailout

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Ben White and Keith Bradsher contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Will the third time be the charm?
 Regulators produced two sweeping plans to bail out banks in the last couple of months. And both times, stocks bounced up but dropped quickly because investors remained skeptical. 
 The latest plan, which emerged Sunday night, involves the government's backstopping a portfolio of assets for Citigroup, the financial conglomerate whose stock lost more than half of its value last week. 
 Shares in other banks, like JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, also lost significant ground. 
 The question, as a new week begins, is whether this plan will produce lasting effects not only for Citigroup but also for the broader stock market. 
 Stocks dropped broadly last week, in part because it appeared that the Bush administration did not intend to take further steps to address the financial crisis, leaving a vacuum of leadership until the Obama administration took office in late January.
 Indeed, at the end of the week, when news trickled out that President-elect Barack Obama had selected a Treasury secretary, the stock market turned upward. Then, on Saturday, Mr. Obama indicated that he was planning an immediate and large stimulus for the economy.
 And the reports on Sunday that regulators were trying to help Citigroup may have a similar impact on the markets.
 ''As far as the rest of the market, it could be positive,'' said James Hardesty, president of Hardesty Capital Management, an asset management firm in Baltimore that sold its Citigroup stock in September. ''It basically says the government is not going to let Citi fail. It's not going to be another Lehman Brothers.''
 In trading early Monday in Asia, shares were down slightly. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong fell 1.24 percent, and the S. &P./ASX 200 index in Australia was down about 0.8 percent. Markets in Tokyo were closed for a holiday. 
 But investors were optimistic about American shares. December futures on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had climbed 0.4 percent.
 Still, trading volume might be down in markets in the United States this week, because of the Thanksgiving holiday, and that could cause greater volatility among stock prices.
 Although the government's actions may help the broader market, the question remains whether they will help financial stocks. As the government injects money into banks and other financial companies, that provides stability to the broader system, which should help companies in other sectors. But the government money dilutes the value of pre-existing shares in the banks. 
 Roy C. Smith, a professor of finance at New York University, said that bank stocks have been driven lower by the government's infusion of capital, and many shareholders view that as a step toward nationalizing the banks.
 ''You're going to have the total amount of shares owned by the government be a pretty large amount,'' Mr. Smith said. ''The rest of the shareholders have to divide what remains. All the stockholders are being squeezed into a much smaller house.''
 But some analysts said the government's plan might help Citigroup, simply by removing the uncertainty about what other problems might lurk on the financial conglomerate's balance sheet. Banks of all sizes are plagued by investors' concerns about the unknowable risks they face as all sorts of arcane assets sour.
 ''It is the lack of transparency that is the biggest problem,'' Charles Geisst, a Wall Street historian at Manhattan College, said on Sunday afternoon. ''God knows what other time bombs are out there.''
 The new program, which could become a model for an industrywide plan, raises about as many questions as it answers, and it may not stave off future problems at the banks. It remains unclear how the government would decide which assets to include in the program and how it would value the estimated losses. 
 ''Assets are devaluing on a daily basis,'' said Meredith A. Whitney, a banking analyst with Oppenheimer & Company. ''If they try to draw a line in the sand, there is no definitive line.''
 Even as the government provides a backstop to some of Citigroup's losses, it is unclear whether regulators have considered all the types of assets that may cause future losses. Investors are increasingly concerned that commercial real estate investments will cause large losses at the banks -- a prospect that bank executives dismissed out of hand just six months ago. 
 James A. Wilcox, a former chief economist at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, said the question to focus on was whether Citigroup was more valuable as a going concern or a tombstone on Wall Street. Though shareholders may lose out from the government's steps, a failure of the bank could be worse, he said. 
 ''For the country as a whole, I think Citigroup is worth more alive than dead,'' said Mr. Wilcox, who is now a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (73%); THANKSGIVING (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); JAPAN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1035 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Foes of Security Agreement Cite Its Failure to Shield Assets From Suits

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ and STEVEN LEE MYERS; James Glanz reported from Baghdad, and Steven Lee Myers from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Alissa Rubin, Riyadh Mohammed, Abeer Mohammed and Atheer Kakan from Baghdad.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Iraqi lawmakers opposed to the proposed security agreement with the United States have seized on a new argument that has emerged only in recent days: the accord does not explicitly protect Iraq's vast oil wealth and other assets from seizure to satisfy billions of dollars in legal claims against the former government of Saddam Hussein.
 An extension of this protection, which is guaranteed in the soon-to-expire United Nations resolution that the security agreement is meant to replace, will have to be negotiated separately, a wide range of Iraq and American officials who support the security agreement acknowledged Sunday.
 They also acknowledged that such a move will be critical to protecting Iraq's assets, or the government's main source of revenue -- oil exports -- could be thrown into disarray when the United Nations resolution expires Dec. 31. 
 It appeared doubtful that the newfound hole in the security agreement would create enough additional opposition in Parliament to defeat final approval in a vote that is scheduled for Wednesday. Supporters of the agreement expressed confidence on Sunday that it would still pass by a significant margin and that ways to extend the protection of Iraqi assets would be found. 
 But to Iraqi critics, the failure of the agreement to protect those assets reinforced their doubts. They said the defeat of the agreement, which would become the legal basis for the continued American military presence in Iraq after more than five and a half years of war, could not be ruled out.
 ''There is no respectable government that would sign such an agreement,'' said Mahdi al-Hafedh, a member of Parliament who opposes it and was among the first to raise the issue of the expiring protections. Given all the unknowns, he said, the original United Nations resolution -- not just the protection clauses -- should be extended six months to enable further study of the security agreement.
 The issue first emerged Saturday when parliamentary opponents pointed out that the agreement could not, by itself, ensure that Iraqi assets would continue to be protected against claims that could not only consume billions of dollars but also make it difficult for Iraq to sell oil and move the proceeds through banks around the world, where courts could ''attach'' -- in effect, seize -- money to settle legal judgments.
 Those judgments have been granted or considered in everything from basic claims of damages by Americans who were badly treated as prisoners of war or used as ''human shields'' against American bombardment in the 1991 war, to more fanciful assertions that Mr. Hussein was, for example, behind the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995 or the World Trade Center attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.
 On Sunday, in response to the criticism in Parliament, where both Iraqi and American government officials have labored mightily to win votes for the security agreement, the Iraqi minister of finance, Bayan Jabr, said during a news conference that the Iraqi government ''was not able to achieve all of its wishes'' in sections of the agreement relating to the protection of Iraqi assets.
 But he said that the agreement was well worth supporting because in it, the United States pledged to press the Security Council to continue the protections if Iraq produced a plan for resolving all legal claims on its assets.
 Two senior United States officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the agreement contained assurances that the United States would work to extend the protections by the Security Council.
 ''It is the highest level of assurance in a bilateral agreement between the United States and Iraq that they're ever going to get,'' one said.
 The official said that if Iraq devised a strong plan to resolve outstanding legal claims on its money, they believed the Security Council was likely to extend the protections for a year. 
 Iraq has already started talks with the State Department to consolidate and resolve some of the cases, said Fadhil Mohammed Jawad, a legal adviser to the prime minister, but progress was slow. Hoshyar Zebari, the Iraqi foreign minister, said he thought that in the end, his country would gain Security Council support.
 ''We've already consulted with the permanent members of the Security Council and they will be agreeable,'' he said. Mr. Hafedh, the Parliament member, said such reassurances did not convince him. 
 He pointed out that the American ambassador, Ryan C. Crocker, and other senior American officials from the United States Embassy, who have been personally lobbying members of Parliament before the vote, ''have given us moral and political guarantees that they will support Iraq on the immunity issue, but these guarantees have no legal impact.'' 
 In an illustration of the enormous complexity of the issue, both Mr. Jabr and the minister of planning, Ali Baban, who also attended the news briefing on Sunday, pointed out that it was not only the Security Council that would have to extend legal protection to Iraqi assets: a separate executive order by President Bush also provides some protections to Iraqi government funds held in American banks, and that order might have to be extended as well.
 The order by Mr. Bush formally expires in May 2009, although the next president, Barack Obama, could presumably review it. Mr. Bush has also worked with Congress to reduce the risk that Iraq's assets could be seized.
 Mr. Bush's order is not a mere detail. It is important to enforcing the current United Nations resolution, which requires that all Iraqi oil revenue is first deposited in an account at the New York Federal Reserve Bank before it is sent back to Iraq to satisfy budgetary requirements. 
 The huge balances in the account have been contentious, because they reflect in part Iraq's unwillingness or inability to spend money on its own reconstruction, while the United States has devoted $50 billion of taxpayer money for that purpose.
 Mr. Jabr revealed for the first time on Saturday that the account at the Federal Reserve now contained $20 billion -- about twice the amount it contained at the end of 2007, according to the United States General Accounting Office. (In a separate interview, Mudher Salih Kasim, a senior adviser at the Central Bank of Iraq, said that the account contained, more precisely, $22 billion as of Oct. 10.)
 Despite the interwoven complexities on legal protections of Iraq's assets, Mr. Jabr and other members of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's government said they still strongly supported the security agreement, which also in effect pledges to urge Mr. Obama to continue protecting Iraq's assets in the United States.
 Mr. Obama's position on the protections has not been made clear, but his transition has been well disposed toward the security agreement over all, since it sets a deadline for United States fighting forces to vacate Iraq, a goal Mr. Obama supported during the campaign.
 As members of Parliament considered the new developments in advance of the Wednesday vote, the largest bloc in the Parliament, the United Iraqi Alliance, which represents an array of Shiite lawmakers, met Sunday to set a strategy for pushing the measure through.
 They formed a committee with responsibility for contacting members of the other parliamentary blocs -- Sunnis, Kurds and those Shiites who oppose the pact -- and listening to their positions, said Abbas al-Bayati, a member of the alliance. 
 The effort to win consensus is a response to Grand Ayatollah Ali Al-Sistani, the most senior Shiite cleric in Iraq, who said in the last 10 days that the measure should be approved by a broad majority.
 The United Iraqi Alliance meeting was attended both by Mr. Maliki, who leads the Dawa Party, and Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, who leads the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, the two most powerful Shiite parties. 
 Regardless of the vote outcome, the United Nations will still have to help Iraq deal with claims on Iraqi assets based on acts committed by Mr. Hussein, said Barham Salih, the deputy prime minister who is head of the cabinet's economics committee.
 ''The hope that we have is that the Security Council will decide to maintain these protections for Iraqi oil revenues,'' Mr. Salih said. ''Obviously this is very crucial issue for Iraq. It is very complex and very painful that we will have to pay for the sins of Saddam Hussein.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iraqi political leaders met in Baghdad on Sunday to discuss the proposed security agreement with the United States. (POOL PHOTO BY GETTY IMAGES)(A6)
 Bayan Jabr, Iraq's finance minister, during a Nov. 12 interview in Baghdad. He is lobbying for the contested security pact.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SABAH ARAR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1036 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Bush Claims Modest Gains For Agenda In Peru Talks

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru 

 BODY:
President Bush wrapped up his final meeting with leaders of Asia-Pacific nations here on Sunday, walking away with a collection of modest achievements: an endorsement of his plans for international financial regulatory reform, a renewed call for free trade and a promise from China to host another round of the so-called six-party talks, aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear ambitions. 
 The global financial crisis, free trade and North Korea were high on Mr. Bush's agenda for the meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, his last summit gathering as president. But with fewer than 60 days left in office, advisers to Mr. Bush were realistic about what they could accomplish.
 ''I think the very understandable concern of these foreign governments is, will the new administration do some sort of policy review,'' said Dennis Wilder, Mr. Bush's chief foreign policy adviser for East Asia. ''Will it try to work with some new ideas?''
 So Mr. Bush has spent his time here trying to gain international support for his principles and policies before President-elect Barack Obama takes office. 
 The two-day session in Lima came just one week after Mr. Bush convened leaders of 20 nations in Washington to address the international financial crisis. A dozen of the Asian and Pacific leaders did not attend the Washington conference, but they issued a communique late on Saturday saying they ''strongly support the broad policy response'' adopted in Washington. 
 Mr. Bush came to Lima determined to press his free trade agenda, and furious at the Democratic Congress -- including the now-resigned Mr. Obama -- for failing to pass free trade pacts with Colombia, South Korea and Panama. 
 In a strongly worded speech on Saturday, he lashed out at lawmakers, calling their refusal to adopt the agreements ''extremely disappointing.'' But he found backers among the leaders here, who vowed in their communique to ''refrain within the next 12 months from raising new barriers to investment or to trade in goods and services.''
 On North Korea, Mr. Bush is looking to lock Mr. Obama into the six-party process, in which the United States, Russia, Japan, China, South Korea and North Korea have been meeting since 2003 to bring about a peaceful end to North Korea's nuclear ambitions.
 Mr. Wilder told reporters on the way here that ''our primary goal is to get back to the negotiating table in Beijing,'' so that the six nations could adopt ''verification principles'' by which North Korea could prove it was living up to its promises to dismantle its weapons program.
 The talks will take place on Dec. 8, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told reporters on Sunday, on the way back from Lima. 
 ''I think they're very conscious of the fact that it's important to do this,'' Mr. Wilder said, ''in part because there's an American transition going on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush and leaders of Asian and Pacific nations at a ceremony on Sunday in Lima, Peru. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAWRENCE JACKSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DISARMAMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) PERU (94%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1037 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2308 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: NOVEMBER 24, 2008

 BODY:
International
 SAYING PACT DOESN'T PROTECT ASSETS
Iraq Lawmakers Raise Objections
 The newest in a long set of objections by Iraqi lawmakers to a security agreement with the United States is centered on oil. This new argument hinges on the agreement's lack of protection for Iraq's vast oil wealth and other assets from seizure to sate the nearly billions of dollars in legal claims against the former regime of Saddam Hussein. A range of American and Iraqi experts who support the agreement acknowledge that this complaint is one that will have to be negotiated separately. page A6 
 CHaVEZ TONES DOWN HOSTILITY
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela took a smoother tone with his people went to the polls to cast ballots in state and municipal elections, and depending on the outcome, his power could fade. He asked for his people to abide by whatever the outcome was. That was quite the contrast from recent behavior, included a threat to occupy Carabobo, a state with a heavy opposition base, with the aid of tanks, and calling a top political rival a ''swine.'' Page A12 
 POPE FOCUSES ON DIFFERENCES
 Comments made by Pope Benedict XVI could have broad consequences despite the Vatican's recent reach for interfaith dialogue and understanding. In a letter to an author and politician whose coming book encourages Europe to stay true to its Christian roots, the pope expressed doubt that discussion between faiths could work, and instead advocated the exploration of practical differences among faiths and the results of those differences. Page A7 
 BUSH TRIP ACHIEVEMENTS MODEST
 President Bush can claim a bit of success after his recent meeting with Asia-Pacific leaders in Peru, but with less than 60 days remaining, his advisers pointed out the understandable caution on the part of those leaders. Still, Mr. Bush's plans for international financial regulatory reform were endorsed and he renewed his call for free trade. In addition, he extracted a promise from China to hold another round of six-party talks aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear ambitions. Page A12 
 A RELUCTANT BARD OF REVOLUTION
 The music that accompanies the rallies and protests of President Daniel Ortega's Sandinista Party rings through Nicaragua. Those same songs roused thousands to battle during the war years of the 1980s. Carlos Mejia Godoy is the balladeer behind that music, but not behind its continued usage. Breaking with Mr. Ortega's policies, Mr. Mejia Godoy has demanded that the administration stop using his songs, and he has recently begun writing new lyrics to them --lyrics that lay out disapproval of the way Mr. Ortega has been running the country. Page A6 
 NATIONAL
 OBAMA'S BIPARTISAN EFFORTS 
 Offer Window Into Presidency
 President-elect Barack Obama is working to build a cordial relationship with Republicans by seeking advice on policy proposals and appointments and generally shying away from the still-to-be resolved Senate contests in Georgia and Minnesota. The bipartisan concessions have infuriated many liberal Democrats, but offer a window into how Mr. Obama hopes to approach the presidency. PAGE A17 
 PIONEER, OR DISPIRITING SYMBOL?
 A passionate debate is stirring among professional, working mothers here and abroad as they watch Michelle Obama finalize her transition from hospital executive to self-proclaimed ''mom in chief'' in the White House. Many women remain deeply divided over whether Mrs. Obama will become a groundbreaking pioneer or a dispiriting symbol of the limitations of modern-day, working motherhood. PAGE A15
 KEEPING A $1 MILLION PROMISE
 In September, Kathy Cox, the Georgia state schools superintendent, won $1 million on the television game show ''Are You Smarter Than a Fifth Grader?'' and then garnered praise and national publicity for choosing to donate all of the winnings to local schools. Last week, she and her husband, John, filed for bankruptcy because his home-building business has struggled. But she still plans to fulfill her pledge. PAGE A13
 NEW YORK
 GUNMAN KILLS WIFE, WOUNDS 
 Two Others in Church
 A gunman invaded a small church in Clifton, N.J., during services and killed his estranged wife and critically wounded two other people with shots to the head in what appeared to be the climax of a violent domestic quarrel that had reached from California to India to New Jersey over the past year. PAGE A19
 THOUSANDS LINE UP FOR NEW START
 Last week, Camden, N.J., became the 12th city in the country to hold a federal program called Fugitive Safe Surrender, which encourages primarily nonviolent fugitives to turn themselves in, promising them at best a clean slate, and usually a favorable hearing by a judge. PAGE A20 
 THE NONSENSE THAT GOES ON
 Every Friday afternoon, an e-mail message from a former journalist-turned-artist named Jeff Stark arrives in the in-boxes of his fans around the city, subject heading ''Nonsense NYC.'' Mr. Stark's message provides two services: information for those looking for an unusual weekend excursion, and a voyeuristic glimpse of the city's undaunted exuberance for those who aren't. Big City, by Susan Dominus. PAGE A20 
 BUSINESS
 SLOWDOWN CATCHES UP
 To High-End Spenders
 Rich consumers who were relatively insulated from the economic downturn continued spending for most of this year, but that has changed in the last few months. In October alone, luxury spending dropped 20.1 percent, according to MasterCard SpendingPulse. That dropoff means more bad news for magazines and newspapers that had grown increasingly dependent on luxury advertising. PAGE B1
 PRIVATE HEALTH PLANS FAULTED
 Private health insurance plans, which serve nearly a fourth of all Medicare beneficiaries, have increased the cost and complexity of the program without any evidence of improving care, researchers say in new studies. One says the growth in private plans has driven up costs because the government pays them 13 percent more on average than what it would spend for the same beneficiaries in traditional Medicare. PAGE B2
 SHAKING UP READER'S DIGEST
 Mary Berner has been a jolt to the system for the Reader's Digest Association since she became chief executive in a private equity takeover 20 months ago. She has replaced executives, sold unprofitable businesses and even set out to change the company's name, shaking it up any way she can. Most important, the company is taking risks, starting dozens of new magazines at a time when its peers are contracting. PAGE B4
 SIDESTEPPING LIBEL LAWS
 A computer file purporting to list the 13,000 members of the racist, far-right British National Party appeared on the Internet last week, posing a bit of a tricky reporting issue for British newspapers, which face strict libel laws. But others have made a sport of poring over the list, looking for familiar names. PAGE B3
 A ONE-MAN POWERHOUSE
 Two principles are at the heart of Super Micro Computer, a thriving business that sells about $600 million a year worth of servers to the likes of eBay and Yahoo: give customers what they want, and do it as fast as humanly possible. And at the heart of the two principles is the company's co-founder and chief executive, Charles Liang, who obsesses over every detail of the business. PAGE B7
 THE OBAMA STIMULUS
 President-elect Barack Obama says he will act quickly on a plan to stimulate the nation's economy, but he has already helped put as much as $200 million into the bill just by being elected. That is the running tally on merchandise commemorating his historic victory, and the total will surely jump with sales of tchotchkes for his inauguration as the 44th president. PAGE B5
 Google's Seductive Nature B1
 SPORTS
 YOUNG KOREAN TAKES TITLE
 In ADT Championship
 Ji-Yai Shin, a 20-year-old from South Korea, defeated Karrie Webb, a 33-year-old L.P.G.A. Hall of Famer, by one stroke to win the ADT Championship and a $1 million check in West Palm Beach, Fla. Shin first attracted attention with her victory at the Women's British Open in July, and another one at the Mizuno Classic in Japan two weeks ago. But because she is not yet a member of the L.P.G.A., she was known mostly to golf insiders and aficionados. PAGE D2
 MUSSINA'S HALL CREDENTIALS
 The debate over Mike Mussina's Hall of Fame credentials began in earnest even before he announced his retirement. He seems so definitively on the borderline of the Hall's criteria for induction -- no Cy Young Award, 30 victories short of 300. But among more statistically savvy fans, there is a different benchmark that puts him in the same class as unquestioned choices like Don Drysdale, Whitey Ford and Juan Marichal. PAGE D8
 COLUMBUS WINS M.L.S. TITLE, 3-1
 Defender Chad Marshall ran into Guillermo Barros Schelotto's floating free kick and headed it past Red Bulls goalkeeper Danny Cepero in the 53rd minute for the go-ahead goal as the Columbus Crew won their first M.L.S. Cup title, 3-1, before 27,000 at the Home Depot Center in Carson, Calif. PAGE D2 
 LOSS RAISES SPECULATION FOR IRISH
 The question lingering this week at Notre Dame is whether the surprising 24-23 loss to Syracuse on Saturday will become a defining moment in Charlie Weis's tenure as coach. While he has had some success, leading the Irish to Bowl Championship Series games in his first two seasons and a likely minor bowl this season, victories of significance have been hard to come by. He is signed through 2015, which would mean that a buyout would probably be the largest paid by a college to a coach. PAGE D7
 OBITUARIES
 KIYOSHI ITO, 93
 A mathematician, he created innovative models of random motion that are used today in fields as diverse as finance and biology. He is known for his contributions to probability theory, the study of randomness. His framework for describing the evolution of random phenomena came to be known as the Ito Calculus. PAGE B9
 TOM GISH, 82
 He shined a spotlight on corruption and environmental degradation in his corner of southeastern Kentucky for a half-century as an award-winning publisher of The Mountain Eagle of Whitesburg. PAGE B9
 Arts
 QATAR ERECTS AN ART MUSEUM OF IMPOSING SIMPLICITY
 There is nothing timid about the ambitions of the new Museum of Islamic Art that opens in Doha, Qatar, next week, Nicolai Ouroussoff writes. It is the centerpiece of an enormous effort to transform Qatar into an arts destination. Viewed under the light of a spectacular evening fireworks display, the museum's colossal geometric form has an ageless quality, evoking a past when Islamic art and architecture were a nexus of world culture, Mr. Ouroussoff writes, and at the same time it conveys a hope for reconnecting again. PAGE C1 
 A 'WHITE CHRISTMAS' RETREAD
 You'd have to be in a desperately, even pathologically, nostalgic mood to derive much joy from ''White Christmas'' at the Marquis Theater, a synthetically cozy trip down memory lane, Charles Isherwood writes. In this efficient but bland theatrical version of the 1954 movie, he writes, the principals playing the two couples at the center of things don't bring much in the way of wattage, and the romantic heat generated by both couples put together wouldn't melt a snowflake. PAGE C1 
 TCHAIKOVSKY AT THE MET
 The return of Tchaikovsky's ''Queen of Spades'' to the Metropolitan Opera was not an occasion for great singing, Anthony Tommasini writes. Among the main characters, Ghermann audibly struggled with a cold. Lisa was unrelentingly loud. And Prince Yeletsky had an attractive, warm voice, but scant dramatic energy. Still, the greatness of Tchaikovsky's 1890 opera came through vividly, and much of the credit goes to the conductor Seiji Ozawa, Mr. Tommasini writes. PAGE C9 
 ENDANGERED SPECIES IN BROOKLYN
 Danny Hoch is the author of, and sole performer in, ''Taking Over,'' the fiery polemical portrait gallery of a play that opened Sunday night at the Public Theater and that, Ben Brantley writes, zigzags between peaks of brilliance and plateaus of preachiness. What is being taken over? The Williamsburg of a hard-core group of New Yorkers, of course, who have come under siege by a growing army of upper-middle-class invaders. PAGE C1 
 WHITMAN AT WORK, SET TO CHORUS
 Even in his most seemingly simple or structurally incoherent pieces, the choreographer Paul Taylor is never less than a thoroughly triple thinker, an artist who juggles three or more disparate ideas throughout a work. His latest, which becomes deeply affecting as it proceeds, is just one such feat of poetically virtuoso layering, Alastair Macaulay writes. The poet-protagonist (Michael Trusnovec) in ''Beloved Renegade'' is a version of Walt Whitman, Mr. Macaulay writes. PAGE C9 
 Editorial
 RETURN OF THE PREDATORS
 The demise of the subprime mortgage industry has been hard on predatory brokers, too. Now they are circling again. They have regrouped, this time as loan-modification companies, inserting themselves between hard-strapped homeowners and banks, offering to work deals -- for cash up front. Page A24
 HAS SOUTH AFRICA FIGURED IT OUT?
 South Africa has decided to withhold $30 million in farm aid until there is a representative government in Zimbabwe. That is only a fraction of its assistance, but we hope it means that Pretoria has finally lost patience with Robert Mugabe. Page A24
 FIXING FEMA
 As the new administration ponders how to grapple with the dysfunctional homeland security megadepartment, one fast fix would be to restore the independence -- and depoliticize -- the disaster agency. Page A25
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 The markets are spiraling down, and our leading experts don't have much of a clue as to what to do. Page A25
 NASA'S BLACK HOLE BUDGETS
 Unless NASA learns to control its soaring spending, the future looks grim for America's once-proud space program, writes S. Alan Stern, NASA's former associate administrator for science. Page A25 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); WRITERS (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); SONG WRITING (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (54%); CITIES (54%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (50%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (74%); HUGO CHAVEZ (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NICARAGUA (92%); ASIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HOLY SEE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1038 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
THANKSGIVING WEEK The bond markets will close at 2 p.m. on Wednesday in advance of the Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday, when markets and government offices will be closed. Friday will be a shortened trading day, with stock markets closing at 1 p.m. and bond markets at 2 p.m. 
 Also on Friday, retailers will get a sense of the prospects for holiday sales as consumers head to stores for so-called Black Friday.
 ECONOMIC REPORTS Despite the abbreviated business schedule this week, there will be plenty of new economic data.
 Reports will include existing-home sales for October (Monday); the first revision of gross domestic product for the third quarter, the Case-Shiller home price index for September and the Conference Board consumer confidence survey (Tuesday); durable goods for October, personal income and spending for October, the Chicago purchasing managers' index for November, the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey and new-home sales for October (Wednesday).
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Campbell Soup and Hewlett-Packard (Monday); Bank of Montreal, Borders, D. R. Horton, Hormel Foods, Talbots, TiVo and Warner Music (Tuesday); and Deere and Tiffany (Wednesday).
 ET CETERA Two former Bank of China managers and their wives will be sentenced in Las Vegas in an embezzlement scheme (Monday).
 UBS will have a meeting to inform shareholders about its bailout agreement with the government and changes to its executive pay and bonus system (Thursday).
 The Los Angeles Auto Show continues (through Sunday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (71%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); EMBEZZLEMENT (65%); SENTENCING (51%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (68%); BANK OF CHINA LTD (55%); D R HORTON INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (68%); BMO (NYSE) (68%); 3988 (HKSE) (55%); DHI (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (55%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1039 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Rubinomics Recalculated

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It is testament to former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin's star power among many Democrats that as President-elect Barack Obama fills out his economic team, a virtual Rubin constellation is taking shape.
 The president-elect's choices for his top economic advisers -- Timothy F. Geithner as Treasury secretary, Lawrence H. Summers as senior White House economics adviser and Peter R. Orszag as budget director -- are past proteges of Mr. Rubin, who held two of those jobs under President Bill Clinton. Even the headhunters for Mr. Obama have Rubin ties: Michael Froman, Mr. Rubin's chief of staff in the Treasury Department who followed him to Citigroup, and James P. Rubin, Mr. Rubin's son. 
 All three advisers -- whom Mr. Obama will officially name on Monday and Tuesday -- have been followers of the economic formula that came to be called Rubinomics: balanced budgets, free trade and financial deregulation, a combination that was credited with fueling the prosperity of the 1990s. 
 But times have changed since then. On Wall Street, Mr. Rubin is facing questions about his role as director of Citigroup given the bank's current woes. And in Washington, he and his acolytes are calling for a new formulation to address the global economic crisis that Mr. Obama will inherit -- and rejecting or setting aside, for now, some of their old orthodoxies.
 Instead of deregulation, Mr. Obama has sworn to usher in a period of re-regulation, to avoid the freewheeling risks that Citigroup and the rest of the financial industry undertook after Mr. Rubin, with Mr. Summers, helped tear down the regulatory walls between banks, brokerages and insurance companies, and freed them to trade in unregulated and little-understood derivatives worth trillions of dollars. Mr. Geithner spent his first years as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York seeking ways to at least monitor those markets better. 
 Instead of balancing budgets, the Obama team will be going deeper into debt for at least two years by spending hundreds of billions of dollars more to stimulate the economy, without concern for deficits, for aid to the jobless, states and cities; tax cuts for workers; and job-creating construction of roads, schools and other public works. Nor, given the downturn, is Mr. Obama expected to try to quickly bring in more revenue by repealing the Bush tax cuts for those making more than $250,000.
 Mr. Summers, who may well end up being Mr. Obama's closest economic adviser, has been especially public in calling for a big stimulus package. Many saw his touch in Mr. Obama's call this weekend for the stimulus plan to create or save 2.5 million jobs.
 ''Everyone recognizes that we're looking at deficits of considerable magnitude,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute. ''Whether it's Bob Rubin, Larry Summers or the most conservative economist, that is a widely shared recognition.'' 
 Liberals like Mr. Bernstein had long had an aversion to the kind of centrist economic policies of the Clinton years, which they felt were too concerned with deficit reduction and not focused enough on investment programs for labor and the middle class.
 But Mr. Bernstein's past differences with Mr. Rubin have so softened that the two men recently wrote a column together about their new common ground on spending, regulation and trade protections for workers. 
 As for Mr. Summers, he has ''truly evolved,'' Mr. Bernstein said, based on his reading of Mr. Summers's columns in the Financial Times this year. Both men have been advisers to Mr. Obama, and at a recent meeting, Mr. Bernstein recalled: ''I told him, 'Boy, Larry, your views on trade, on income inequality, on stimulus spending, they're approaching ours at E.P.I.' And he sort of huffed and puffed, and said, 'Oh well, changing circumstances.' ''
 Yet Rubin critics remain, mostly in Mr. Obama's own Democratic Party among liberals and union members who favor even more domestic spending and more protectionist trade policies.
 ''What worries me is there is not one person in the senior group who is the outsider to this club,'' said Robert Kuttner, a colleague of Mr. Bernstein's at the liberal Economic Policy Institute who has written a book, ''Obama's Challenge,'' about approaches to the economic crisis. ''Where is the diversity of opinion in this economic team?'' Mr. Kuttner asked.
 Yet even Mr. Kuttner has warmed to some he calls Rubinistas. He praises Mr. Geithner for not hailing from a Wall Street investment bank and for being ''among the toughest on the need to re-regulate'' the financial industry from his perch at the New York Federal Reserve. 
 Mr. Kuttner calls Mr. Summers brilliant and notes that he has been out front in proposing big stimulus spending. But he disapprovingly noted that in recent meetings of economists advising Congressional Democrats, Mr. Summers has argued against restricting banks' ability to issue dividends to stockholders as a condition of receiving federal bailout money. 
 By all accounts, the trait that ties the 70-year-old Mr. Rubin and the younger men is their braininess. All but Mr. Summers are seen as cautious about policy. And all but Mr. Summers share their mentor's low-key affability and conversational ease; many wonder just how Mr. Summers, whose brusque ways left a trail of enemies when he was president of Harvard, will perform as director of the National Economic Council in the White House when the job demands someone who can coordinate with others, listen to them and fairly represent their views to the president.
 ''There's no way he will be confined to the N.E.C.'s turf; he will be sticking his nose into everything,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a Treasury veteran of the Reagan administration and a Summers admirer. ''Personally, I think that's more good than bad.''
 Mr. Rubin used to recall privately that when he led the National Economic Council, his White House office gave him easy access to the president as well as to Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the first lady -- and in turn, influence. Mr. Summers is sure to use his proximity to the Oval Office to the same end, past associates agree.
 That could mean tensions between him and Mr. Geithner, 47, who was Mr. Summer's only rival for another stint as Treasury secretary under Mr. Obama. Yet people who know both men say they got along well at the Treasury Department in the 1990s. It was Mr. Summers, as Mr. Rubin's deputy secretary, who first mentored Mr. Geithner and later promoted him to be under secretary for international affairs.
 Mr. Rubin, also an adviser to Mr. Obama, supported both men but privately favored giving Mr. Summers, who turns 54 this month, a second chance. Mr. Rubin has long been invested in promoting Mr. Summers, vouching for him against those who object to his personality. He endorsed Mr. Summers to be his successor as Treasury secretary.
 As a member of the Harvard University board, Mr. Rubin next helped Mr. Summers become university president. When Mr. Summers became embroiled in controversies with faculty and some women's groups and African-Americans over his perceived insensitivity, Mr. Rubin lobbied on his behalf. He was unsuccessful, and Mr. Summers was forced to resign.
 The Harvard controversies were a factor in Mr. Obama's consideration of Mr. Summers for Treasury secretary. Leaders of several women's groups said they warned Obama advisers that a 2005 furor over remarks that some interpreted as Mr. Summers questioning women's intelligence in math and science relative to men's, would be revived if he were nominated. The Treasury post requires Senate confirmation; the National Economic Council director does not. 
 Yet Kim Gandy, president of the National Organization for Women, said her group's research actually produced material that recommended him. ''One good thing about Larry Summers,'' she said, ''is that he has written and spoken fairly extensively on the issue of women's wage inequality and the impact that has on the country.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a Political Memo article on Monday about President-elect Barack Obama's reliance on past proteges of Robert E. Rubin, a top economics official in the Clinton administration, misstated the middle initial of Mr. Rubin's son who is on Mr. Obama's economics transition team. He is James S. Rubin, not P. 
An article on Nov. 24 about the links between former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and top economic advisers to President-elect Barack Obama inaccurately quoted a remark by Kim Gandy, the president of the National Organization for Women, about one of the advisers, Lawrence H. Summers. Ms. Gandy, who was asked about misgivings among women's groups over Mr. Summers, said her group's research produced some material that recommended him. But in describing approvingly his work on the subject of wage discrepancies, she did not refer to ''women's wage inequality;'' she said after the article was published that she was referring to his analyses of the income gap between rich and poor, not between men and women.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS
IAN BARRETT/CANADIAN PRESS
CAROL T. POWERS/BLOOMBERG
JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG
 PATRICK ANDRADE) (pg.A18) GRAPHIC THE RUBIN CONNECTION: The people Barack Obama has selected to fill senior economic positions in his administration have close ties to Robert E. Rubin, right, the former Treasury secretary. (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); INSURANCE (64%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1040 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: Obama Aides Signal a Boost in Stimulus Spending

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and JEFF ZELENY; Brian Knowlton, Carl Hulse and Mark Landler contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama has signaled that he will pursue a far more ambitious plan of spending and tax cuts than anything he outlined on the campaign trail -- a plan ''big enough to deal with the huge problem we face,'' a top adviser said Sunday -- setting the tone for a recovery effort that could absorb and define much of his term. 
 A member of the Obama economic advisory team, William M. Daley, acknowledged that because of the gravity of the situation, Mr. Obama was leaning toward letting a Bush tax cut for the wealthy expire on schedule in 2011 rather than repealing it sooner.
 There were hints Sunday that a stimulus package might be extraordinarily large. Austan Goolsbee, a senior Obama economic adviser, charged that the Bush administration had ''dithered'' as the economy turned down and suggested that the incoming administration would take dramatic action. 
 ''We're out with the dithering, we're in with a bang,'' he said on CBS. A senior Democrat, Senator Charles Schumer of New York, said that any package should be as much as $700 billion, equivalent to the recent financial bailout plan.
 In the Democrats' weekly radio address, Mr. Obama said that he would direct his economic team to craft a two-year stimulus plan with the goal of saving or creating 2.5 million jobs. 
 ''Our hope is that the new Congress begins work on this as soon as they take office in early January, because we don't have time to waste here,'' David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president-elect, said on ''Fox News Sunday.''
 When asked if the tax cuts might be allowed to expire on schedule, Mr. Axelrod replied: ''Those considerations will be made.'' 
 In an inauguration year Congress usually convenes in early January, a few weeks before the inauguration, then members leave again. This year, however, they intend to stay and work in anticipation of the president's inauguration and the heavy agenda he is expected to bring.With the economy likely to get worse before it gets better, Mr. Axelrod said, ''We want to hit the ground running on Jan. 20,'' the day of Mr. Obama's inauguration. He said a plan should be ''big enough to deal with the huge problem we face.''
 Mr. Obama said Saturday that he hoped to sign the stimulus package into law soon after taking office. He is already coordinating efforts with Democratic leaders in Congress. 
 But some members of Congress said Sunday that even that might not be soon enough -- Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said that President Bush and Mr. Obama should work together now to put a stimulus package in place by early next year. Otherwise, he said, the Obama approach would probably take until the second quarter of next year, ''and that's too long.'' 
 Advisers to Mr. Obama say they want to use the economic crisis as an opportunity to act on many of the issues he emphasized in his campaign, including cutting taxes for lower- and middle-class workers, addressing neglected public infrastructure projects like roads and schools, and creating ''green jobs'' through business incentives for energy alternatives and environmentally friendly technologies. 
 In light of the downturn, Mr. Obama is also said to be reconsidering a key campaign pledge: his proposal to repeal the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. According to several people familiar with the discussions, he might instead let those tax cuts expire as scheduled in 2011, effectively delaying any tax increase while he gives his stimulus plan a chance to work.
 That approach, Mr. Daley said on NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' ''looks more likely than not.''
 On Monday morning in Chicago, Mr. Obama plans to hold his second news conference since the election to introduce his economic team, led by his Treasury secretary, expected to be Timothy F. Geithner. News that Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, would get the job helped send the stock market up by nearly 500 points on Friday after days of sharp losses.
 Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers is to be the director of the National Economic Council in the White House, the president's principal economic adviser and policy coordinator, according to an Obama aide. 
 Mr. Axelrod appeared to tacitly confirm those two nominations, though he said that another widely reported nomination, that of Governor Bill Richardson as commerce secretary, might be premature.
 Referring to the stimulus plan being prepared, Mr. Axelrod said, ''We need the best people we can find, the best minds in our country to help us accomplish that plan, and people like Tim Geithner and Larry Summers are among those people.'' 
 Mr. Obama, in his address, underscored the economic challenge facing the new team. ''The news this week has only reinforced the fact that we are facing an economic crisis of historic proportions,'' he said. ''We now risk falling into a deflationary spiral that could increase our massive debt even further.''
 Senator Schumer used a similar argument on Sunday in calling for a stimulus package of $500 billion to $700 billion. ''We're on the edge of deflation,'' he told ABC's ''This Week.'' ''Once you get into deflation you almost never get out.'' 
 Mr. Goolsbee, asked about the possibility of so large a package, declined to offer numbers but agreed that ''the problem is very, very serious'' and suggested that the package would be considerable. He noted on CBS that Mr. Obama had spoken during his campaign of a $175 billion package, then added, ''and the economy has gotten substantially worse since then.''
 The new economic team, in addition to Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers, will include Peter Orszag, the head of the Congressional Budget Office, who will be the next White House budget director.
 Mr. Summers, who served as a campaign adviser to Mr. Obama, has advocated for a forceful stimulus plan in recent newspaper columns, saying the federal government should be doing more, not less, in areas like health care, energy, education and tax relief. Obama seemed to echo those thoughts in his radio address.
 ''We'll be working out the details in the weeks ahead,'' Mr. Obama said, ''but it will be a two-year, nationwide effort to jumpstart job creation in America and lay the foundation for a strong and growing economy. We'll put people back to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, modernizing schools that are failing our children, and building wind farms and solar panels, fuel-efficient cars and the alternative energy technologies that can free us from our dependence on foreign oil and keep our economy competitive in the years ahead.''
 Mr. Obama's announcement came after market declines and the prospect of a collapse by automakers and other storied companies had sparked growing criticism last week that he was sitting on the sidelines. 
 The $175 billion stimulus plan that Mr. Obama proposed in October included a $3,000 tax credit to employers for each new hire above their current work force and billions in aid to states and cities. 
 Separately, Democratic leaders in Congress have been calling for a robust economic recovery initiative of up to $300 billion, including major investments in infrastructure to create jobs. President Bush has refused to consider a package so large, but even some conservative economists have said $300 billion is the minimum needed to spur the economy.
 ''There are no quick or easy fixes to this crisis, which has been many years in the making,'' Mr. Obama said Saturday. ''And it's likely to get worse before it gets better. 
 ''But January 20th is our chance to begin anew, with a new direction, new ideas and new reforms that will create jobs and fuel long-term economic growth.''
 Some Republicans might be won over should Mr. Obama decide not to repeal the Bush tax cuts for those making more than $250,000. By simply letting the cuts expire after 2010, as the law now provides, Mr. Obama would in effect delay the tax increase that high-income taxpayers would have faced in the next year or two under his original plan.
 That could have economic and political benefits. Mr. Obama would not be open to the charge from Republicans and other critics that he is raising taxes in a recession, which many believe is counterproductive. His Republican presidential rival, Senator John McCain of Arizona, had raised that argument during the campaign.
 By letting the tax cuts expire, Mr. Obama would get the benefit of higher revenues in 2011 and beyond to help finance his promised health care plans without having to propose raising taxes on the affluent and without the Democratic majority in Congress having to vote on a tax increase.
 Also, Mr. Obama is under far less pressure in the short term to raise revenues to help finance campaign promises because the seriousness of the economic crisis has brought bipartisan agreement that the government must do whatever it can to spur economic growth. 
 Mr. Bush and the Republicans who controlled Congress in 2001 agreed that his tax cuts would expire after 10 years as a way of minimizing the projected revenue losses in future years, to comply with congressional budget rules and to help pass the legislation. The president repeatedly called for making the tax cuts permanent, but no action was taken.
 The 2.5 million jobs that Mr. Obama promises to save or create over two years is a gross number. With about 1.2 million jobs lost this year, and more projected to be lost in 2009, Obama advisers expect that job losses will outnumber new jobs next year. For 2010, the advisers are projecting the reverse if Mr. Obama's plans become law. 
 Nearly every spending program and tax cut that Mr. Obama proposed during the campaign could end up in the stimulus package, advisers indicated. For example, Mr. Obama's proposals to invest in energy alternatives and advanced ''green'' technologies will most likely be part of the package, rather than proposed later in his administration.
 In effect, the stimulus will be seen by the Obama administration as ''a down payment,'' as one adviser put it, on Mr. Obama's entire domestic platform, allowing him to try to take maximum advantage of the first year of his presidency. Traditionally, the first year is the one in which modern presidents have achieved most of their major victories. 
 Some economists welcomed Mr. Obama's plan, though they said it was difficult to assess without full details. The focus on creating and saving jobs made sense, they said, given the deterioration of the job market. 
 ''The unemployment rate is soaring,'' possibly into the double digits, said Kenneth Rogoff, an economics professor at Harvard. 
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said in a statement, ''We will soon finally have a leader and partner in the White House who recognizes the urgency with which we must turn around our economy, and I look forward to working with him and the new Congress to do so.''
 Republicans in the next Congress could still block a big stimulus package in the Senate, as Mr. Obama seemed to recognize. 
 ''I know that passing this plan won't be easy,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I will need and seek support from Republicans and Democrats, and I'll be welcome to ideas and suggestions from both sides of the aisle.
 ''But what is not negotiable is the need for immediate action.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); NETWORK TELEVISION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DAVID AXELROD (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1041 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Report Calls for a Fresh Approach to Latin America

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With the election of Barack Obama, the United States has a fresh chance to reinvigorate its relations with Latin America, according to a new report that recommends Washington overhaul its drug policies at home and pursue a rapprochement with Cuba.
 The report, compiled by prominent former policy-makers from the United States and Latin America and scheduled for release on Monday by the Brookings Institution, called on the new administration to put Latin America at the center of its foreign policy radar screen. 
 Among the most striking recommendations is a near-total reversal in policy toward Cuba. The report advocates lifting all restrictions on travel by Americans, promoting more contacts with Cuban diplomats and taking Cuba off the State Department's list of state sponsors of terrorism.
 ''This may make the over-40 generation of Cuban-Americans in Miami jump-up-and-down mad, but there is a whole generation of Cuban-Americans who want to change this relationship,'' said Thomas R. Pickering, a longtime diplomat and former under secretary of state.
 Mr. Pickering, who once served as American ambassador to El Salvador, is co-chairman of a commission that produced the report, along with the former president of MexicoErnesto Zedillo.
 Younger Cuban-Americans, Mr. Pickering said, are less interested in isolating the Castro government than in bettering the conditions of their families still living in Cuba. Lowering barriers between Cuba and the United States, the report says, would enable other voices to emerge there.
 The report sets out several other specific and general measures, including Congressional approval of free trade agreements with Colombia and Panama and a re-evaluation of American counternarcotics policy -- the war on drugs -- which it condemns as a failure.
 ''We've been reluctant to acknowledge this in the United States,'' Mr. Pickering said. ''We don't want to shine a spotlight on ourselves; we want to shine it on places where the stuff is coming from.''
 Efforts to eradicate drug production in Colombia, Peru and Bolivia have become less successful as drug traffickers have moved their operations farther into the jungle, Mr. Pickering said. While these efforts must go on, he said the United States needed to stem demand at home.
 The number of heroin and cocaine addicts in the United States, the report says, has not changed much since the mid-1980s, a fact that the report attributes to a failure to reduce production and to an ineffectiveness among American drug prevention and treatment programs.
 Mr. Zedillo said in a telephone interview that drug trafficking, fueled by such a huge and hungry market, had spread throughout Latin America and should no longer be thought of as a Colombian, Mexican or Bolivian problem.
 The report was equally blunt about trade policy, saying that Congress needed to pass the Colombia trade deal to maintain the credibility of the United States. Then, it said, the United States should de-emphasize bilateral deals in favor of reviving the moribund trade negotiations known as the Doha Round.
 The election of Mr. Obama sends mixed signals on the Colombia trade issue. Some analysts said they believed Mr. Obama remained, at core, a believer in globalization and free trade. But as a senator, he resisted passage of the Colombia deal because of concerns about violence toward union officials there.
 ''How a President Obama, working with a Democratic Congress, reconciles those goals and principles is going to be tricky,'' said Strobe Talbott, the Brookings Institution president.
 Protectionist sentiment is likely to intensify because of the economic crisis, Mr. Talbott said. The crisis has already hit Brazil and Mexico hard, though Mr. Zedillo noted that they were better equipped to bounce back than during previous upheavals because of sounder economic policies.
 If the Colombia deal dies, trade experts said, it will mainly penalize American exporters, since Colombian exports to the United States already enjoy favorable terms. But the experts said it could undermine Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe, one of the region's most pro-American leaders.
 Mr. Obama's election, experts said, could change the tenor of relations with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, whose periodic anti-American outbursts have poisoned ties with a once-reliable ally.
 ''Hugo Chavez is conscious of the fact that Barack Obama is on his side of the fence, representing the downtrodden side of American society,'' Mr. Pickering said. ''Does he really want to take on Obama?''
 The report does not criticize the Bush administration, though it says that relations with Latin America have languished in recent years because the White House has been preoccupied with other matters.
 As it happens, President Bush made his last scheduled foreign trip over the weekend to Peru, for a meeting of leaders from Asia-Pacific countries. But in a sign of the White House's agenda, his crucial one-on-one meeting before the conference was with China's president, Hu Jintao. 
 China has established a foothold in several countries in Latin America as a trading partner and investor, according to the report, which predicted Beijing would vie with Washington for influence.
 Thomas A. Shannon Jr., the assistant secretary of state responsible for Latin America, said the report was constructive, though its call for closer ties with Cuba did not confront the fact that this would depend on the Cuban government's moving toward democracy, something it has not done. 
 Mr. Shannon also disputed the contention that the United States had neglected Latin America, pointing out that Mr. Bush's trip to Peru was his ninth to the region as president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); HEROIN (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); COCAINE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); APPROVALS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TERRORISM (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); EL SALVADOR (79%); PERU (79%); PANAMA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1042 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People, Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 MillerCoors, a joint venture of the Molson Coors Brewing Company and SABMiller, consolidated its assignment for general-market planning and buying in the traditional media, with spending estimated at $400 million, at MC Media, Chicago. MC is being formed by two agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies -- Draft FCB and Initiative -- and the Kinetic unit of the WPP Group. The media assignments for Molson Coors brands had been divided between Draft FCB, for buying, and Initiative, for planning. The media assignments for Miller brands had been handled by Starcom USA, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe. Planning and buying for digital media continue to be handled by Digitas, part of Publicis, and Razorfish, part of the Microsoft Corporation.
 The CBS Corporation, New York, shifted its media planning and buying assignment, with spending estimated at $135 million, to OMD, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, from Initiative, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The assignment is for the CBS and Showtime networks. 
 The Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, expanded its agency roster by adding Deutsch, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, for work on the consumer inkjet product line. Spending was estimated at $40 million to $50 million. The assignment had been at the longtime Kodak agency, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of the WPP Group, which continues to handle other Kodak accounts.
 Sport Chalet, La Canada, Calif., expanded its relationship with TM Advertising, Dallas, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. TM, which already handles media planning and buying, adds assignments like creative and strategic planning that had been handled internally at Sport Chalet, a sports equipment company.
 People
 Clayton F. Ruebensaal III joined Cliff Freeman & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, as chief executive. He succeeds Jeffrey McClelland, who left, the agency said, after serving for three years in the post. Mr. Ruebensaal had been executive vice president and senior account director at BBDO Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group.
 Shaun Holliday joined MPG, New York, part of Havas, as chief executive for North America, effective on Jan. 1. He will succeed Charlie Rutman, who becomes a senior adviser to MPG and joins the MPG North American advisory board.
 James Fox joined BBDO North America, New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, as executive vice president and planning director on the AT&T account. He assumes duties from Mike Teasdale, who had been planning director on AT&T for five years; Mr. Teasdale is returning to his native Britain, the agency said, to work with William Eccleshare, chairman and chief executive at the BBDO Europe unit of BBDO, based in London. Mr. Fox had been chief strategic officer at the New York office of Taxi.
 Keith Levy, vice president for brand management at Anheuser-Busch, St. Louis, was promoted to vice president for marketing as part of a series of appointments after Anheuser-Busch was acquired by InBev. Mr. Levy succeeds David A. Peacock, who is now president at the Anheuser-Busch unit of Anheuser-Busch InBev. Tony Ponturo, the longtime vice president for global media and sports marketing at Anheuser-Busch, is retiring, effective on Dec. 31; a successor is expected to be named soon. Mr. Ponturo was considered one of the most powerful executives in sports marketing because of the dominant role played by Anheuser-Busch in sponsoring sports programming like the Super Bowl. Robert C. Lachky will continue as chief creative officer at Anheuser-Busch, working with the advertising agencies that create campaigns for beer brands like Budweiser and Bud Light.
 Miscellany
 Renegade, New York, regained its independence after Dentsu Holdings USA, part of Dentsu, sold its majority stake in the agency to Drew Neisser, chief executive at Renegade. Financial terms were not disclosed.
 The Publicis Groupe, Paris, acquired Tribal, Sao Paulo, Brazil, an interactive agency. Financial terms were not disclosed. Tribal will operate autonomously as part of the Digitas unit of Publicis.
 The Advertising Council, New York, presented its Gold Bell award, for creative excellence for a campaign produced for the council, to the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas. The award honored a campaign carrying the theme ''Think before you speak,'' which was created with the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network. The campaign, which was the subject of an article in The New York Times on Oct. 8, was the first in the 66-year history of the council to address a social issue of concern to gay men and lesbians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (88%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (76%); BRANDING (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); SPORTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (63%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (95%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (86%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); CBS CORP (83%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (70%); WPP PLC (58%); SABMILLER PLC (58%); SHOWTIME NETWORKS INC (55%); SPORT CHALET INC (54%); HAVAS SA (54%); MDC PARTNERS INC (53%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (53%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (52%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (50%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (95%); TAP (NYSE) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (86%); PUB (PAR) (84%); CBS (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (70%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); SOSAB (JSE) (58%); SAB (LSE) (58%); SPCHA (NASDAQ) (54%); HAV (PAR) (54%); MDZ.A (TSX) (53%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (70%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (54%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (77%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008



1043 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; 2009 AUDI Q5 LA AUTO SHOW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Arriving as the Party Winds Down

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
Introduced on Wednesday: 2009 Audi Q5 
 Is it real? Yes, despite being at least four years behind competitors like the BMW X3, the Q5 is finally coming to America. Unfortunately now that it is almost here, what is missing is a compelling reason to spend over 40-large for one. 
 What they said: ''The Q5 combines the dynamism of a sports sedan with highly variable interior and versatile options for leisure-time and family use. Strong and efficient engines, quattro permanent all-wheel drive and agile running gear have been brought together to create a superior technology package for both on- and off-road driving,'' the press materials explained.
 What they didn't say: Well, they did say ''strong and efficient engines'' (plural), but that's what Europeans get; the United States will only see an engine (singular). Audi said it can't make a business case for bringing American customers the engines that could give this A4-based crossover up to 40-mile-a-gallon fuel economy. 
 What makes it tick? A 3.2-liter 6-cylinder engine with direct fuel injection, 270 horsepower and 243 pound-feet of torque gives the Q5 zero-to-60 acceleration of 6.7 seconds -- but fuel economy of just 17 in town and 24 on the highway. More economical alternatives, including a turbocharged gas engine and a pair of turbodiesels, are still somewhere over the rainbow. 
 How much, how soon? About $39,000 to start, but options like the $3,000 Audi Drive Select handling package can drive the window sticker to dizzying heights. Latest best guess from Audi is an on-sale date of next April (subject to change, as it already has -- multiple times).
 How's it look? Formal wear for the crossover crowd. Compared with its appearance-challenged peers like the X3, Infiniti EX35, Land Rover LR2 or Acura RDX, the Q5 looks freshly laundered, pressed and starched to a fine crease. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1044 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: A Radiant Coast of Mexico, Blighted by Drug Wars

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
class=''additionalinfo''>E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ENSENADA, Mexico 

 BODY:
 JUST off the highway in the scrubby hills north of town stands a walk-in shrine to a man known as the ''narco saint,'' Jesus Malverde, a Robin Hood-like bandit who is said in Mexican lore to have performed miracles for the desperate after he was hanged in 1909.
 The ''saint'' -- he is not recognized by the Catholic church -- now has a new clientele: drug traffickers in northern Baja California, where hundreds of the guilty and the innocent have been murdered in narcotics-related shootings this year. Some of the criminals leave graffiti on the shrine, which has a mural of Malverde with the Virgin of Guadalupe protectively behind. 
 ''This one says 'Thank you for making my business prosper,' '' said Saul Alarcon, translating one of the scrawled messages from drug dealers. Freshly lighted votive candles glowed on wood shelves. 
 This was just another business trip for Mr. Alarcon, 38, a conservation manager for Wildcoast, a nonprofit conservation group with offices in Imperial Beach, Calif., and in Tijuana, the Mexican border city about 65 miles north of here. 
 Last Friday, he and Serge Dedina, the executive director of the organization, drove me on a daylong trip through the northern section of the troubled Baja peninsula. 
 Mr. Dedina, 44, co-founded the group in 2000. That was when he and friends who had grown up surfing the coast of Southern California and Baja saw that a national border did nothing to stop environmental problems -- initially the raw sewage that poured into the sea from rapidly developing Tijuana. 
 The group has 12 employees and many volunteers. Its work has evolved into preserving coastal habitats, with a recent push down the peninsula to work with Mexican officials and others to limit rapacious land development (now visibly stalled by the bad economy) on the northern Baja coast.
 The work often requires long drives. Trips used to be merely time-consuming. ''But things have changed dramatically'' with the potential for violence, Mr. Dedina said. And like many business travelers working in suddenly dangerous places, the employees of Wildcoast say they are learning quickly to adapt.
 The headlines from Baja are stunning. Earlier this month, hours after 2,000 people marched through Tijuana to protest violence, drug gangs shot 11 people dead, including a 14-year-old girl. More than 600 people, some innocent bystanders like the girl, are believed to have been murdered this year in drug-related shootouts in Baja California.
 Robberies, kidnappings and shakedowns on highways are now routine for travelers in Baja. ''We used to drive a lot at night. We try to avoid that now,'' said Mr. Alarcon, whose job often involves working with coastal landowners deep in Baja.
 To avoid driving deep into Baja, Wildcoast employees have sometimes traveled on small propeller aircraft, with flight time donated by supporters. That helps to avoid nocturnal carjackings. But last spring, Mr. Dedina said, a small plane that a Wildcoast board member had rented was stolen from a remote beach in Baja.
 The business is intensely personal. At the sprawling fish market in Ensenada, Mr. Dedina worked his way along stalls stacked with the day's catch from boats docked nearby. Mr. Dedina spoke affably in Spanish with fishmongers, quietly gathering timely anecdotal information and gossip about fishing and catches and who is working the coastal lagoons. 
 Wildcoast workers and volunteers have become vigilant about staying in touch and avoiding obvious trouble spots. Once-casual business trips are now carefully scheduled. The workers and volunteers now routinely carry satellite phones.
 The troubles have badly hurt tourism in Baja. On Friday, the normally bustling streets of Tijuana and Ensenada were empty. Shopkeepers looked stricken.
 And the violence is never far. At the end of our drive, on the American side of the border, Mr. Alarcon pulled the truck over to take a cellphone call from a woman in Baja with whom he had been working on a land project. She apologized for canceling a meeting. A week earlier, her niece had been murdered in a gang shootout as she sat in a cafe in a town near Ensenada. 
 ''She was 23 years old,'' Mr. Alarcon said.
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); MURDER (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); GANGS (77%); VANDALISM (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); GRAFFITI (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1045 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; 2009 BMW 335D SEDAN LA AUTO SHOW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: High-Performance Diesels, an Oxymoron No More

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
Introduced on Wednesday: 2009 BMW 335d sedan
 Is it real? Oh, yes, even if an diesel is still considered by a certain slice of American car buyers as having all the sporting panache of driving a forklift. 
 What they said: ''Thanks to BMW's BluePerformance diesel technology, the 335d sedan offers an unparalleled blend of performance and efficiency,'' BMW's press materials said. Along with the similarly powered X5 xDrive35d, ''no other diesels in the U.S. will perform like this pair of BMW Advanced Diesel models.'' 
 What they didn't say: This award-winning engine is almost too frisky for its own good. It makes so much torque, BMW couldn't find a manual transmission strong enough for it. So a 6-speed automatic is the only gearbox available.
 What makes it tick? A 3-liter in-line 6, with two turbochargers (and urea injection, making the 335d emissions-legal in all 50 states). The turbos are sequential, a small unit kicking in immediately and a larger one coming on-line as the r.p.m. builds. The output is ''only'' 265 horsepower, but the torque rating is a wrenching 425 pound-feet. This translates to 6-second-flat zero-to-60 times and a 135 mile an hour top speed -- and 36-m.p.g. highway fuel economy. 
 How much, how soon? Oy! Though BMW diesels add as little as $1,500 to the price of its models in Europe (where they constitute two-thirds of BMW's sales), the company has decided to try and balance its books with a premium of nearly $4,000 stateside. When the first models start appearing in showrooms in late December, they'll have a starting price of at least $44,725.
 How's it look? Like any other 3 Series sedan, which by the way, start at approximately $11,000 less. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (91%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (91%); BMW (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1046 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC SLUMP MAY LIMIT MOVES ON CLEAN ENERGY

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Just as the world seemed poised to combat global warming more aggressively, the economic slump and plunging prices of coal and oil are upending plans to wean businesses and consumers from fossil fuel.
 From Italy to China, the threat to jobs, profits and government tax revenues posed by the financial crisis has cast doubt on commitments to cap emissions or phase out polluting factories. 
 Automakers, especially Detroit's Big Three, face collapsing sales, threatening their plans to invest heavily in more fuel-efficient cars. And with gas prices now around $2 a gallon in the United States, struggling consumers may be less inclined than they once were to trade in their gas-guzzling models in any case.
 President-elect Barack Obama and the European Union have vowed to stick to commitments to cap emissions of carbon dioxide and invest in new green technologies, arguing that government action could stimulate the economy and create new jobs in producing sustainable energy. 
 But as the United Nations prepares to gather the world's environment ministers in Poznan, Poland, next week to try to agree on a new treaty to reduce emissions, both the political will and the economic underpinnings for a much more assertive strategy appear shakier than they did even a few weeks ago. 
 ''Yes things have changed,'' said Yvo de Boer, executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in a phone interview. He is organizing the meeting in Poland. 
 ''European industry is saying we can't deal with financial crisis and reduce emissions at the same time,'' he said. ''Heads of government have other things on their minds.''
 The economic decline also could complicate the political calculus of limiting emissions in developing countries, especially China.
 China overtook the United States as the largest producer of greenhouse gases in 2007. But the surge in heavy industry there that produced a sharp increase in its emissions already has given signs of turning into a bust.
 Some experts argue that China's emissions -- and the pressing need to limit them -- may recede until economic conditions improve.
 No government has officially repudiated climate goals; in Bali last year, all the nations of the world promised to pursue an emissions control treaty. Mr. de Boer said he remained optimistic that major powers would ultimately stick to pledges to reduce emissions.
 ''I don't think anyone will show the stupidity to focus on the short term and ignore the long-term issue because these decisions will be with us for 30 years,'' he said. 
 Even so, there are signs of considerable backpedaling in at least near-term commitments to invest in green technology and alternative energy. 
 Italy's environment minister, Stefania Prestigiacomo, said last month that ''profound changes'' were needed in the European Union climate package because of the global economic crisis. Coal-based economies like Poland's have expressed similar worries. 
 Theolia, one of France's largest alternative energy companies, has canceled plans for a subsidiary devoted to emerging markets, and pulled back on its goals of how much energy it could produce by 2009. 
 In the United States, T. Boone Pickens, the Oklahoma oil tycoon who leased hundreds of thousands of acres in West Texas for a giant wind farm, has now delayed the project. He told reporters at a recent news conference that fossil fuel prices would have to rise again before it was economically viable.
 Barbara Helfferich, the European Commission spokeswoman on the environment, said, ''Investing in reducing emission is more difficult to do in times of economic downturn than when you have money to spend.'' 
 Mr. Obama, Mr. de Boer and Stavros Dimas, the European Union environment commissioner, all argue that by promoting new green jobs, even with heavy government subsidies, they could create an engine of economic growth that would help countries pull themselves out of the recession. 
 Mr. Obama, without releasing specifics of his proposed economic stimulus package, called on the country to build ''wind farms and solar panels, fuel-efficient cars and the alternative energy technologies that can free us from our dependence on foreign oil and keep our economy competitive in the years ahead.'' 
 The European Commission says it is planning to stay its course toward lower emissions -- a 20-percent reduction by 2020 -- and in so doing hopes to have a ''first mover advantage'' in terms of job creation, renewable sources and energy innovation once the global economy rebounds. 
 ''I know it sounds counterintuitive, but our argument is that because there is an economic turndown, it is just the time to tackle the transition from a high-carbon to a low-carbon economy,'' Ms. Helfferich said. 
 Recessions can be good or bad for achieving environmental goals, and it remains uncertain how this one will play out. 
 In the short term, economic declines tend to reduce emissions, because industrial production slows down. Retrenchment will certainly curb fast-growing emissions from China, for example, where double-digit economic growth has been based partly on production from the most polluting industries, such as steel, cement and aluminum. But such reductions are inevitably temporary, rebounding when the economy picks up. 
 Against this, the current economic slump could have serious long-term environmental consequences, because it may reduce investment in greener production technologies without fundamentally changing the longer-term emissions picture. With so many renewable energy projects and programs in their nascent stages, their success is easily undercut by lack of credit or financing. 
 Centrica, a British company that has been building wind farms to meet its target of having 15 percent of that country's energy come from renewable sources by 2020, has put three planned offshore wind farms on hold, in part because of rising credit costs. Without projects like these it is unclear if Britain's ambitious emissions reductions target can be met. 
 At the same time, the price of buying permits to emit carbon dioxide in Europe -- a system the European Union uses to discourage companies from polluting -- have fallen by half compared with the price a year ago, largely because of slower growth. 
 Wind costs more than $2.5 billion per gigawatt to build, compared with $600 million for gas. Carbon permits and subsidies can narrow that gap, but the current low prices mean that it is cheaper to burn coal, even after paying penalties for the carbon dioxide emissions.
 The United Nations says that 40 percent of the world's power generating capacity has to be replaced in the next 5 to 10 years. Six months ago, high oil prices, easy credit and political pressure led many governments to promote biofuels, wind farms and nuclear projects and phase out fossil fuel plants. But the logic of spending more on such plants has at least partly evaporated.
 ''If because of the current economic scenario, you choose cheap and dirty, we'll be in big trouble,'' Mr. de Boer said.
 Paradoxically, it may not look that way, at least at first. One big short-term effect of the economic situation is likely to be a reduction of emissions from the developing world. In the decade after the Eastern bloc countries gained independence in 1989, pollution dropped precipitously, as Soviet-era heavy industry shut down.
 Emissions dropped sharply between 1990 and 2000, only to start rebounding in the boom years after 2000. By 2006, for example, emissions dropped by 1 percent in industrialized countries (mostly those in Western Europe) that report their emissions to the United Nations. At the same time, they increased by 3 percent in the so called ''economies in transition,'' including the former Soviet bloc states of Eastern Europe. 
 In the current global recession China could follow a similar trajectory.
 The number of cement plants in China rose to 7,000 from 3,000 from the year 2002 to 2007, as China built new cities at a record pace. That catapulted China to top of the list of global emitters, more than a decade earlier than scientists had anticipated just a few years before.
 Yet straight-line projections about China's emissions are now again in question, said Trevor Houser, a visiting fellow at the Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics. 
 ''Demand for goods like steel, cement and aluminum is contracting severely, so the energy used to produce them is also severely down,'' he said. 
 Last month, he said, China's energy use fell by 4 percent compared with the same month in 2007. A year ago, use was growing at an annual rate of 15 percent.
 That may ultimately be a good thing for the Chinese economy as well as the environment, because heavy industry produces heavy emissions, but very few jobs. 
 Indeed, the slowdown may provide an opportunity for China, too, to reinvent itself with investment in a greener economy. ''Slower energy demand provides an opportunity to move away from coal,'' he said.
 Still, such benefits may be more apparent to environmentalists than to factory owners and finance ministers trying to meet budgets and make profits. The European Union estimates that it will cost Italian industry 13 billion euros, about $16.7 billion, to reduce emissions. Italy puts the cost up to 27 billion euros, which is says it cannot afford. 
 ''Transitions are expensive, but this one will help avoid the ups and downs we've recently seen,'' Ms. Helfferich said. ''This is a short-term bitter apple to create new sectors that are conducive to fighting climate change and jobs as well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People looking for coal at a dump in Changzhi, China. The nation depends heavily on fossil fuels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); COAL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); ITALY (93%); EUROPE (93%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ASIA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1047 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: In Bleak Economy, Hospitals, at Least, Are Preserving Jobs

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
Even as layoffs at one giant company after another raise concerns that New York City's economy is shrinking fast, the hospitals and universities that dominate the city's large nonprofit sector are generally holding firm and accounting for a growing share of private-sector jobs.
 Instead of laying off large numbers of employees, which banks like Citigroup are doing, the city's hospitals and universities are trying to weather the economic storm without significant cuts. That approach could shift the balance among the city's biggest private-sector employers and pose problems for city officials who are scrambling to fill a growing budget gap. 
 Before the financial crisis began unfolding last year, the ranks of the city's biggest employers already included several large hospitals and universities, which, because of their nonprofit status, do not pay corporate or property taxes. Now, with several of the biggest for-profit companies eliminating thousands of jobs, the city is becoming more dependent on nonprofit employers like NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University.
 ''The phenomenon of hospitals and health care systems representing a large part of a region's employment is not unusual,'' said Dr. Herbert Pardes, the president and chief executive of NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System, which operates NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. He pointed to Birmingham, Ala., and Rochester, Minn., as examples.
 But no civic leader in New York wants to look to much smaller cities as models for a vast metropolis. Large companies with concentrations of employees serve as crucial attractions to major cities, economists say.
 ''They help provide New York City with its unique human capital characteristics and provide a range of employment opportunities,'' said James Parrott, the chief economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a research group. 
 Even after the implosion this year of some of the pillars of its most profitable industry, New York will still have a considerably more diverse economy than most cities, said Steve Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a research group.
 ''This city, despite its reliance on Wall Street, is nowhere near as vulnerable as many American cities that have seen their big employer or employers disintegrate,'' Mr. Malanga said. ''One thinks of Kodak and Rochester, or Detroit and the Big Three.''
 City officials said they did not maintain a list of the city's largest private-sector employers; they routinely cite a list that is published annually by Crain's New York Business.
 The latest edition of that list, compiled last year, was studded with some global financial companies and even more nonprofits, including the operators of many of the city's biggest hospitals. Of the 16 companies and organizations that employed more than 10,000 people in 2005, there were three Wall Street companies, six hospital operators, two universities and two utilities. The three banks -- Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley -- have each eliminated several hundred jobs this year. The only other for-profit companies among the 16 were Macy's and Time Warner. Macy's had 17,000 workers in New York City in 2005, according to Crain's. Now, Macy's employs about 14,500 people at its stores in the five boroughs and at the headquarters of its East division in Manhattan, according to Elina Kazan, a company spokeswoman.
 Time Warner has eliminated about 900 jobs in the city, said Edward I. Adler, a company spokesman. Those cuts will reduce the company's employment in the city to about 12,000, he said.
 As a result, at least two hospital operators -- NewYork-Presbyterian and Continuum Health Partners -- have more employees in the city than Macy's or Time Warner. NewYork-Presbyterian has about 20,000 people, including doctors, nurses, lab technicians and executives. Continuum, which operates Beth Israel Medical Center, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn, employed about 15,500 workers at last count, a spokesman said.
 Columbia University, the largest school in the city, has about 14,100 employees, according to a spokesman, Robert Hornsby. The university has not had any layoffs lately but in a Nov. 11 letter to the faculty and staff, its president, Lee C. Bollinger, said the school had created a hiring review committee ''that will look carefully at every new or vacant position in the central administration before allowing it to be filled.''
 It is the health care industry, however, that has traditionally been less sensitive to swings in the overall economy because the sick and injured require care in good times and bad. 
 Although employment in health services has declined slightly in the city in the past few months, the city's biggest hospitals have avoided significant layoffs so far, according to Brian Conway, a spokesman for the Greater New York Hospital Association. 
 But Mr. Conway added that hospital executives were concerned that proposed state budget cuts would force them to reduce services and, in turn, eliminate jobs. 
 Each of the financial giants has announced at least one broad layoff this year. Just last week, Citigroup alarmed city officials with the announcement of a much bigger layoff than had been expected, a plan to reduce its total employment by 52,000 in the next seven months. Citigroup had been the biggest for-profit employer in the city, with its rival bank, JPMorgan, running a close second, according to Crain's. (Executives of the banks would not reveal just how many employees they have in any particular location or business unit.)
 Those banks are still among the city's largest employers, but their payrolls are much smaller than they were at the peak of the last financial boom. JPMorgan is in the process of eliminating about 3,000 jobs in its investment banking unit, which is based in the city.
 Despite the cuts, James Brown, an analyst with the New York State Department Association, said he expected the big banks to continue to be pillars of the city's economy. ''There are so many very large financial companies in New York City,'' Mr. Brown said. ''Even if you considered that they were going to be significantly downsizing, they would still be major employers.''
 Mr. Malanga said the city could continue to thrive even if its biggest for-profit employers were smaller in the future.
 ''The issue is not so much who are going to be the large employers on the other side of this meltdown,'' he said, ''but will the city continue to be a home for creating entrepreneurial activity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (69%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1048 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: A Berkeley Museum Wrapped in Honeycomb

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
I have no idea whether, in this dismal economic climate, the University of California will find the money to build its new art museum here. But if it fails, it will be a blow to those of us who champion provocative architecture in the United States.
 Designed by the Japanese architect Toyo Ito, the three-story structure suggests an intoxicating architectural dance in which the push and pull between solitude and intimacy, stillness and motion, art and viewer never ends. Its contoured galleries, whose honeycomb pattern seems to be straining to contain an untamed world, would make it a magical place to view art. 
 Beyond its aesthetic appeal, however, Mr. Ito's design underscores just what is at stake as so many building projects hang in the balance. On a local level, the museum could help break down the divide between the ivory tower at the top of the hill and the gritty neighborhood at the bottom. More broadly, it could introduce an American audience to one of the world's greatest and most underrated talents, sending out creative ripples that can only be imagined.
 The museum would replace the existing Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive, a bunkerlike building completed in 1970 that was badly damaged in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. 
 Standing on a rough commercial strip at the campus's southern edge, the old building is still marred by the big steel columns that were installed after the quake to support its cantilevered floors. Its rough, angular concrete forms and oddly shaped galleries are awkward settings for art.
 The new museum would rise several blocks away, at the seam between the main entrance to the university's leafy hillside campus and Berkeley's downtown area. Mr. Ito conceived the design as part of a drawn-out public promenade, and he has packed the bookstore, a cafe, a gallery, a 256-seat theater and a flexible ''black box'' onto the ground floor. The more contemplative galleries, which include spaces for temporary exhibitions and the museum's permanent collections of Western and Asian art, are on the second and third floors.
 In the renderings the building's creamy white exterior vaguely resembles a stack of egg cartons that has been sliced off at one end to expose the matrix of contoured chambers inside. The forms peel away at various points to create doorways and open up tantalizing, carefully controlled views into the interiors, as if the building's facade had been slowly eroding over the millenniums.
 Teasingly voyeuristic, the effect brings to mind partly demolished buildings and the aura of intimate secrets about to be revealed. But Mr. Ito is not interested in simply obliterating boundaries, as you would with a conventional glass box. His aim is to create a relaxed relationship between private and public life: while acknowledging that contemporary museums are often hives of social activity, he understands that they can also be places where we want to hide from one another and lose ourselves in the art. 
 The ground floor is conceived as an intense, compressed version of the surrounding street grid. Once inside, visitors will have to pay to enter a formal temporary gallery just to the right of the main entry. Or they can slip around it and follow the procession through the more informal interstitial spaces, which will be used for video art and site-specific installations. The theater and black box space are tucked away in the back.
 Mr. Ito once said that he would like to create spaces that are like ''eddies in a current of water.'' The interstitial spaces seem to swell open and close up to regulate the movement of people through the building; the self-contained, honeycomblike spaces, by contrast, produce a sense of suspension rather than enclosure, as if you were hovering momentarily before stepping back into the stream.
 As you ascend through the museum, this effect intensifies, and the spaces become more contemplative. The main staircase is enclosed in one of the contoured volumes, giving you psychological distance from the activity below. Once you reach the main gallery floors, the experience becomes more focused: the rhythm through the rooms is broken only occasionally, when a wall peels back to allow glimpses of the city.
 Mr. Ito has positioned most of the doorways in the galleries' contoured corners, which allows for a maximum of uninterrupted wall space for the art while emphasizing the rooms' sensual curves. Most of the galleries have a single opening; others are contained in interstitial spaces, part of the general flow through the building. The contrast, which creates unexpected perspectives, has more to do with Tiepolo's heavens than with Mondrian's grids.
 As with all of Mr. Ito's work, the building's structural system is not an afterthought but a critical element of the ideas that drive the design. The honeycomb pattern gives the building a remarkable structural firmness, allowing for walls only a few inches thick. Made of steel plates sandwiched around concrete, they will have a smooth, unbroken surface that should underscore the museum's fluid forms. The tautness of the bent steel should also heighten the sense of tension.
 Of course, Mr. Ito is still fine-tuning his design, and critical decisions have yet to be made. Museum officials plan to eliminate two 30-foot-high galleries that were part of the original proposal to add wall space and cut costs. This is unfortunate: the soaring spaces would tie the building together vertically and create voids on the upper floors that would add to the sense of mystery. 
 The museum is also pushing to make the curved corners in the galleries more compact to add still more wall space, which could create an impression that the art is crammed in.
 For decades now, Mr. Ito has ranked among the leading architects who have reshaped the field by infusing their designs with the psychological, emotional and social dimensions that late Modernists and Post-Modernists ignored. They have replaced an architecture of purity with one of emotional extremes. The underlying aim is less an aesthetic one than a mission to create a more elastic, and therefore tolerant, environment.
 These ideas have found their firmest footing in Europe and Japan and are now filtering into the mainstream here. It would be a shame to leave Mr. Ito out of that cultural breakthrough. The museum would not only be an architectural tour de force but would also introduce him to a broad American audience, stirring an imaginative reawakening in a country that sorely needs it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A model of the Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOYO ITO & ASSOCIATES, ARCHITECTS)
Above, a digital rendering of the exterior and a pedestrian walkway of the Berkeley Art Museum. At left, a photograph enhanced to show the area to be occupied by the new museum.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOYO ITO & ASSOCIATES, ARCHITECTS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1049 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Rosie O'Donnell's Special, A Test for Variety Format

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
''Rosie Live,'' the one-hour special to be shown by NBC on Wednesday night, is an audition. 
 The Thanksgiving-eve audience will see an attempted revival of the variety show format, a staple of television in the 1960s and '70s. Taking pages from Carol Burnett, Ed Sullivan and Sonny and Cher, the show will serve up Broadway dancers, celebrity appearances, musical acts and comedy sketches. Rosie O'Donnell, an executive producer and the host, sees a template for a weekly series. 
 ''For about the past five years I've been pitching this exact show,'' she said last week, taking a break from rehearsals at the Ripley-Grier Studios on Eighth Avenue, in Midtown Manhattan. ''I've done it a million times in my head already.'' 
 Ms. O'Donnell isn't the only variety host in waiting. The broadcast networks are making expensive bets that the format is finally ready for an encore. 
 ''The entire industry has been trying to figure out a way to bring back variety in some way,'' Mike Darnell, the president of alternative programming for Fox, said in an interview last summer, when the network signed Ozzy Osbourne's family to star in a variety show. The untitled Osbournes show does not have a premiere date. 
 Competitors will be watching to see whether the NBC special succeeds. The singer John Mayer is reportedly in talks to host a variety show for CBS, although the network has not confirmed that the show is in development.
 Against a bleak economic backdrop that reminds some of the '70s, television executives said they were hoping that families would gather in the living room for an upbeat hour of comedians, musicians and surprises. 
 ''I think it's fun, it's celebratory, it's light and breezy, and it's a good showcase,'' said Ben Silverman, the co-chairman of NBC Entertainment, who accepted Ms. O'Donnell's pitch for ''Rosie Live'' earlier in the year. 
 What Mr. Silverman didn't say was that given the sorry state of NBC's prime-time schedule, ''Rosie Live'' could be a desperately needed shot in the arm. Promotions for the show remind viewers that ''anything can happen''; in a decade of time-shifting and fast-forwarding, ''live'' is an important sales pitch. 
 It's not only ''American Idol,'' the nation's most-watched show, that proves the point: NBC's only show among broadcast's Top 20 for the week ending on Nov. 16 was Sunday's live N.F.L. game. And the network's most storied franchise, ''Saturday Night Live,'' has had a robust year.
 While ''Rosie Live'' commercials have run frequently on NBC, the show's host is herself a walking, talking promotion. When Ms. O'Donnell says that the show will consist of ''no politics, no feuds, no fighting, just one hour of entertainment,'' every celebrity magazine reader knows she is referring to the year she spent on ''The View'' and the animosities that may or may not remain. 
 The supposed feud between Ms. O'Donnell and Barbara Walters, one of the other ''View'' hosts, re-emerged in a conference call last Wednesday when a reporter asked Ms. O'Donnell about her opinion of the program. Ms. O'Donnell's comment about a lack of camaraderie among the current hosts prompted Ms. Walters to spend a minute on Thursday's show chastising ''ladies'' who criticize ''The View.'' 
 The spat was good for scores of press mentions, conveniently published days before Ms. O'Donnell's show. (The two women share a publicist.)
 On Friday morning Ms. O'Donnell waltzed into the rehearsal room, donned a black top hat and recounted her most recent exchange with Ms. Walters for her group of dancers. ''Call me 'lady' from now on,'' she joked.
 After switching from boots to high heels, she practiced the show's opener, a rendition of ''City Lights'' from the 1977 Broadway musical ''The Act,'' with its original star, Liza Minnelli. After about 10 rehearsals, the scene seemed stage-ready. 
 ''I did it, Denis,'' Ms. O'Donnell exclaimed to her choreographer, Denis Jones. ''I didn't think I could do it.'' 
 The one-hour special amounts to a re-emergence for Ms. O'Donnell, who hosted a daytime talk show from 1996 to 2002. On Wednesday she will deliver a monologue, introduce musical performances by Alanis Morissette and Ne-Yo and chat up the ''30 Rock'' cast members Alec Baldwin and Jane Krakowski. 
 Surprise guests, comedic skits and a pair of tap dancers will lead up to a finale by the singer Gloria Estefan. The show's other executive producer, David Friedman, calls it ''very old-school variety.'' 
 ''There really isn't anything like it on TV,'' he said. 
 Wednesday night will test whether viewers want to watch. Series like ''The Carol Burnett Show'' and ''The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour'' were ratings hits in the three-network era. But by 1980 they had all but vanished from television. 
 ''I think partly they died because they were sort of stuck'' in the past, Mr. Darnell said. ''If you look back at them, they look very much of the era. They don't translate well. But that doesn't mean there isn't a new way to present them.'' 
 Ms. Burnett, for one, is ready for their return. ''I'm happy that the V word isn't so nasty anymore,'' she said in a telephone interview on Monday. ''It's a genre that I think is sorely missed.''
 Ms. Burnett's show ended in 1978, but it remained popular in syndication, on VHS and DVD and more recently on YouTube. A retrospective that CBS showed in November 2001 drew almost 30 million viewers. 
 A number of producers have tried to bring the variety format back, often with a sketch comedy bent, with little success. But the format is evident in ''American Idol,'' ''Dancing With the Stars'' and other reality hits. The talent competitions are variety shows, Ms. O'Donnell observed, ''only without a lot of variety.'' 
 Ms. O'Donnell said she believed the timing was right for a variety revival, partly for practical reasons. ''It's a lot less costly than a one-hour drama, people are getting fed up with reality, and sitcoms don't seem to be working,'' she said. 
 The one-hour special is being produced with an eye toward a regular series run. Ms. O'Donnell's contract calls for episodes to be ordered in batches of six. Mr. Silverman isn't ready to commit yet, but he said, ''Hopefully, the audience will be as excited as we are.'' 
 Broadway -- Ms. O'Donnell calls herself its ''ultimate fan'' -- will surely be watching. As Ms. O'Donnell sat on a bench outside the rehearsal hall and reminisced about previous variety shows, a dancer interrupted and said, ''Thanks for bringing it back.'' 
 Ms. O'Donnell smiled and answered, ''I'm trying.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rosie O'Donnell and cast members rehearsing ''Rosie Live,'' to be broadcast on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Rosie O'Donnell and Denis Jones, her choreographer, at work.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); DANCERS (71%); MUSIC (71%); FAMILY (70%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%)

PERSON: BEN SILVERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: Rosie Live (TV Program)>; Rosie Live (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1050 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Another Crisis, Another Guarantee

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Guarantees that could not be honored thrust the world financial system into its worst crisis since the Great Depression. Will a guarantee by the United States government finally restore confidence in the American financial system?
 Only a week after Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said that the government bailouts had stabilized the most important financial institutions, plunging stock prices forced the government to step in again, both to make another direct investment and to guarantee that losses would be contained from $306 billion in possibly toxic assets on Citigroup's balance sheet.
 The move sent stock prices soaring Monday, with financial stocks leading the way. But those gains did not come close to erasing last week's losses, and left open the possibility that a renewed sense of concern about the safety of other banks could force still more bailouts in coming weeks. 
 One lesson may be that it is perilous for the government to even hint that it thinks it is through bailing. That can renew fear about banks, driving down share prices and forcing the government to do the opposite of what it had intended. Since the government has a printing press, it need never be short of dollars. That fact makes this guarantee much more credible than the ones, from bond insurers and other companies, that helped persuade banks and others to take what turned out to be huge risks. Many of those guarantors, it turned out, could not honor their obligations. The government feared financial chaos if there was a string of collapses.
 Even if Citigroup is the last bailout, the Bush administration, whose rhetoric was perhaps more supportive of free, unhindered markets than was that of any of its predecessors, will leave a trail of socialized risk.
 But that trail may not be at an end. The auto companies want billions in bailouts, and other industries are lining up.
 And as the nation's obligations rise into the trillions, at some point investors may begin to question whether a government running huge deficits can also credibly promise that the dollar will not lose its value. Such a worry conceivably could push up the very low interest rates the Treasury now pays to borrow from foreign investors to foot an ever-larger rescue bill.
 But those are problems for another day. Now the priority is to keep the financial system from collapsing. The problems of recession, constricted lending markets and falling real estate prices will remain even if everyone concludes the big banks are safe.
 In the latest bailout, the government injected an additional $20 billion into Citigroup, on top of the $25 billion it invested a few weeks ago. It also said that it would cover 90 percent of the losses on those $306 billion in securities after Citigroup absorbed the first $29 billion of losses.
 The fact that it was necessary to guarantee so many assets -- about a sixth of the $2 trillion in assets that Citigroup reported at the end of September -- was another indication of both the complexity and the opacity of many of the securities that were created by financial engineers in the great wave of innovation.
 The assets in question -- described by the government as ''loans and securities backed by residential real estate and commercial real estate, and their associated hedges'' -- must be valued at current market value before the guarantee kicks in, but the government and the bank have yet to agree on those values.
 That phrase ''associated hedges'' captures the fact that Citigroup, like many others, had sought to insure itself against losses with a variety of transactions, including the purchase of insurance, only to learn that the losses were overwhelming those who had promised to pay.
 The boom of the first half of this decade will be remembered as a time that financial innovations overwhelmed the capacity of both regulators and banks to assess risk.
 The collapses of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, both of which were primarily regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, served to focus attention on the agency, which was effectively forced out of that financial soundness regulation area after the Federal Reserve assumed oversight of several of the large companies for which it had been responsible.
 But Citigroup had always been under Fed regulation, and the need for repeated bailouts there shows both that the regulation was ineffective and that even after the crisis began, the government underestimated its severity.
 At first, the Fed hoped that just making more loans available to banks would reassure markets. Then, as losses mounted, the government tried capital injections. In both cases, investors first showed relief, then grew afraid again.
 The newest bailout includes more than the guarantee and the capital injection. It enables Citigroup to treat the guaranteed assets as being relatively safe, thereby improving its apparent capital position.
 It could need all the reported capital it can get. David Hendler, an analyst at CreditSights, pointed out that Citigroup's other assets included $91 billion in credit card receivables, $272 billion in non-United States consumer loans, $163 billion in corporate loans and a net $104 billion in assorted derivatives. Those assets, he wrote, ''are not immune to weakness in the overall economy.''
 Citigroup was hardly alone in failing to understand the risks it was taking. As financial assets became more and more complex, and harder and harder to value, investors were reassured by the fact that both the bond rating agencies and bank regulators accepted presumably sophisticated models, which showed the risks were small.
 Insurance on the assets was issued both by the bond insurers and by others that wrote what were known as credit-default swaps, which amounted to insurance, but were not regulated in the same way. Those who wrote large amounts of such insurance are now in trouble, either negotiating to pay claims for less than promised or, in the case of the American International Group, still in business only because of a government bailout.
 In retrospect, perhaps the fact there was a demand for such insurance should have served as a warning that the risks were greater than acknowledged. But at the time, the bond insurance companies thought they would pay few, if any claims, and the A.I.G. executives responsible for writing the swaps told investors they would never suffer any losses.
 As Citigroup's stock was plunging last week, there were also big declines in the shares of the other large banks, including Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. It remains to be seen whether investors will now be reassured about them as well, or will show the same level of fear that forced the issuance of the latest guarantee.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ISTOCKPHOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RECESSION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INSURANCE (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1051 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Travel Is Bargain Spot For the Willing

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
The travel industry is bracing for a painful holiday season as people scale back their discretionary spending. But that is good news for anyone who has yet to book a winter getaway, with hotels, airlines and cruise operators introducing last-minute deals to entice vacationers.
 Holidays are the busiest time of year for most travel companies, a season when they command the highest rates for popular winter destinations. 
 But as the economy's decline has accelerated, nervous consumers have started to shut their wallets and put off vacation plans. For the first time in six years, Thanksgiving travel is expected to decline, according to AAA, the automotive group, with about 41 million Americans taking trips of 50 miles or more from home, a dip of 1.4 percent from last year. 
 Despite lower gas prices, 1.2 percent fewer Americans expect to travel by car, AAA said -- more than 33.2 million Americans this year, off from the 33.6 million people who drove a year ago. 
 ''There is no part of the industry that will go unscathed,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst with Forrester Research. 
 Now travel companies are rushing to fill space, with resorts in popular holiday hotspots reducing minimum stay requirements, throwing in extras and cutting prices.
 Ski.com, which negotiates discounts with resorts, is offering rate reductions as deep as 50 percent for lodging in Steamboat Springs, Colo., over the Christmas and New Year's holidays. Last week, American Airlines was offering nonstop flights between Washington and Miami for $212 round trip, down from about $310 on average, and flights between Detroit and Chicago for as little as $119 round trip, down from about $185, during Christmas week. 
 As of Monday, Expedia.com was offering a four-night Bahamas cruise from Miami for just $99 a person. ''That's $25 a night including room and board and entertainment,'' said Chris McGinnis, editor of the Expedia Travel Trendwatch. ''You can't live at home for that cheap.'' 
 For hotels, the holiday outlook is not looking very merry or bright. ''This will be one of the largest declines in hotel occupancy,'' said Bjorn Hanson, an associate professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. ''The only comparable periods were 2001 and the early 1970s.'' 
 With declines in bookings across the board, Mr. Hanson predicts hotel occupancy rates to decrease to as low as 53 percent this holiday period from about 58 percent last year. 
 ''It's just really hard to find some good news -- except for travelers,'' he said. ''Without trying too hard,'' he said, consumers will be able to find hotel rates 10 percent lower than last year. 
 That plays to the advantage of those who have procrastinated in making holiday travel plans. Ray Harkness, a computer programmer in Mustang, Okla., is one of them. He usually flies to Disney World with his wife, Nancy, every December. This year, he put off buying airline tickets after turning up fares of around $450 apiece during the spring and summer. 
 Two weeks ago, Southwest Airlines reduced one-way fares from Oklahoma City to Orlando, and Mr. Harkness was able to snap up two tickets in mid-December for about $270 each.
 ''We're almost paying the price of one ticket for both of us,'' he said. ''For us, that's going to be Christmas.''
 The Air Transport Association, the trade group for airlines in the United States, said earlier this month that it expected the number of passengers to decline 10 percent this Thanksgiving holiday compared with last year, the first dip in seven years.
 Faced with empty seats, airlines are cutting prices. On average, airfares are significantly cheaper now than for those who bought tickets this summer, or even a few weeks ago. The average one-way coach ticket bought in advance was $117 last week, down 13 percent from $135 in early July, according to Harrell Associates, a consulting firm that tracks airfares.
 ''Airlines put very high fares out there to see who would bite,'' said Robert Harrell, who leads the firm. ''They're not seeing enough takers, so fares are beginning to drop.'' 
 Even airlines that are not promoting outright sales have been offering bargains. JetBlue Airways has been offering fares as low as $49 each way for midweek travel from New York to Richmond, Va., and $125 each way for travel through Dec. 15 from New York to San Francisco, Burbank or Long Beach, Calif.
 Fares may have dropped in recent months, but they are not necessarily cheaper than they were last holiday season, suggesting the airlines' cuts to their schedules may be helping the bottom line.
 In addition, all the newly imposed fees for items like pillows or checked bags can add up quickly. Checking two bags round trip on a domestic flight can add as much as $80 to the price of a ticket. And that is not counting charges for overweight or oversize luggage.
 ''The addition of incremental fees means that if a passenger succeeds in getting a lower base fare than last year, their out-of-pocket expense actually ends up being higher,'' said Jamie Baker, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase. 
 All the travel bargains are little consolation to travelers who booked early only to miss out on savings. Jason Ma, an actor from Manhattan, paid $650 in September to purchase a round-trip flight from New York to Los Angeles for Christmas. Last week, the same itinerary was going for $539. 
 ''I kind of didn't want to know,'' said Mr. Ma, who also works as a temp for Airfarewatchdog.com, a bargain site, and thus has been acutely aware of his missed opportunity.
 For bargain hunters, some of the usual rules of airfares still apply. The best deals will go to travelers with flexible schedules. ''Stay away from Sundays,'' said Rick Seaney, chief executive of Farecompare.com, which tracks airline prices. 
 Those dates will be among the busiest and costliest because both Thanksgiving and Christmas fall on a Thursday this year, he said. Flying on the holiday itself can also be cheaper. 
 To help fill seats, some airlines, including American, United and Northwest, have introduced color-coded calendars with their holiday sales this year, which point out the best days to fly and save. Travelers can also check ITASoftware.com, which lets you easily search any 30-day period for the lowest price. 
 Making a pit stop can also cut down costs. A nonstop flight on Continental from Newark to Portland, Ore., over the Christmas holiday was $791 in a recent online search. By making a stop in Atlanta, a traveler could save about $150. More stops, of course, mean more chances for delays and a missed connection. 
 Airlines have also been advertising quick sales on trips to Europe. British Airways introduced a three-day sale last week with flights to London as low as $396 round trip from New York, not including taxes or fees. Eurofly, an Italian carrier, is charging as little as $559 round trip from New York to Rome, including fuel surcharges but not taxes or fees. 
 Because first- and business-class travel typically slows during the holidays as business travel drops off, some of the best bargains are in the front of the plane. American Airlines is offering round-trip business-class fares over Christmas and New Year's from New York to London -- a route where walk-up fares can be close to $10,000 -- for as low as $1,784, not including taxes and fees.
 For travelers who fly coach, a hundred dollars here and there can make a big difference. In September, when James Welle, a software developer from Seattle, began searching for airline tickets to Fargo, N.D., to visit his family this Thanksgiving, prices were hovering around $700 round trip. 
 He consulted multiple Web sites and changed his travel dates to see if he could get a lower fare, but to no avail. ''I kept checking back and looking for deals,'' he said. 
 Just when he was considering flying into Minneapolis and making the three-and-a-half-hour drive to Fargo, he stumbled on a sale at Northwest. He booked a flight for himself and his wife at $460 a person round trip, a savings of $240 each.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sarah and James Welle of Seattle saved several hundred dollars each on a flight to Fargo, N.D. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER YATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Jason Ma paid $650 in September for a ticket from New York to Los Angeles that now goes for $539. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A23) CHART: Better Fares for Those Who Waited: This year, as opposed to last year, posted airfares have fallen since summer. So a flier who waited longer to buy a ticket for the holidays or a winter getaway could have gotten a better deal.(Source: Harrell Associates)(A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CRUISES (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); SKIING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (72%); SPORTS BUSINESS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (92%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (92%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (92%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1052 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: For Lobbyists, No Downturn, Just a Turnover

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Richard Hunt, a top Republican lobbyist for the securities industry, was among the first to go, just a week after the election. Marc Racicot, the president of the American Insurance Association and former Republican Party chairman, resigned a few days later. So did Frank L. Bowman, the retired admiral and Republican-leaning chief of the nuclear energy lobby, citing ''this period of dramatic change in Congress and the White House.''
 All were casualties of a broad shake-up of the lobbying world set off by the Democratic ascendance in Congress and at the White House. Republican lobbyists are feeling the demand for their services plummet as struggling businesses slash their lobbying budgets, the outgoing Bush administration hemorrhages resumes, and their party retreats to its lowest ebb of power since the election of President Jimmy Carter 32 years ago. 
 ''This is rather unique -- much more difficult for Republicans than in past transitions,'' said Eric Vautour, a former Reagan administration official who recruits former officials for lobbying jobs. 
 After eight years of the so-called K Street Project -- the effort by Republican lawmakers and operatives to pressure companies, trade associations and lobbying firms to hire their fellow Republicans -- the tasseled loafer is on the other foot. Companies and interest groups are competing to snap up Democrats. And scarcity has added to their value because so many well-connected Democrats are angling for jobs in the Obama administration, which has promised ethics rules that may block lobbyists from certain jobs. Meanwhile, recently passed Congressional ethics rules restrict the ability of departing Congressional staff members to lobby as well.
 ''The Democratic market is kind of frozen, while the Republican market is about to be engorged'' with former Bush staff members, said Tony Podesta, founder of the Podesta Group, a major lobbying firm. 
 The starting salaries for former officials tell the story. An assistant department secretary leaving the Bush administration three years ago, with Republicans in control of the House, Senate and White House, might fetch as much $600,000 to $1 million a year in the influence business, recruiters and lobbyists said. But the same person might now expect less than half as much.
 ''Don't be the last guy off the train,'' said Peter Metzger, vice chairman of the recruiting firm CT Partners, recalling his advice to government officials considering other work in Washington.
 But for Democrats, the bidding is fierce. Three years ago, a Democratic staff director for an important House or Senate committee might have earned about $130,000 a year on Capitol Hill, and jumped to K Street for an annual salary of about $250,000. Now, the same person might command as much as $500,000 to $800,000 a year, several recruiters said. 
 ''There is a supply-and-demand issue with finding enough Democrats who have had senior-level positions,'' said Nels Olson, of the recruiting firm Korn/Ferry International. ''It is certainly a difficult time for Republicans.''
 For an industry that prefers to talk about selling policy expertise and sophisticated arguments, the turnabout is a stark reminder that what clients want are personal connections. ''People who need to get something done know what the price of a drink is,'' Mr. Metzger said. ''This may sound terribly Washington, but access trumps expertise.''
 W. Henson Moore III, a former Republican congressman from Louisiana and deputy secretary in the Energy Department who recently retired as head of a trade group, put it bluntly: ''Republicans are going to be to some extent almost irrelevant in the next two years.''
 Many trade groups and Republican lobbying firms did not wait until the election on Nov. 4. The lobbying firm of Barbour, Griffith and Rogers, for example, was once almost synonymous with Republican power. Its three name partners were all well-known White House officials under President Ronald Reagan and the first President George Bush. One, Haley Barbour, went on to become Republican Party chairman and is now the governor of Mississippi.
 But in the aftermath of the Democratic victory in the 2006 elections, the firm's partners decided to shorten the name to the less evocative ''BGR Group,'' and started to hire more Democrats. Last month, the firm even held a fund-raiser for the Democratic campaign of Senator-elect Mark Warner of Virginia. And on Election Day, it acquired the Democratic firm of Westin Rinehart, headed by a former Clinton administration official, Morris L. Reid.
 ''To go bipartisan, we rebranded the business,'' Ed Rogers said Friday, speaking by telephone from a business trip to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. ''Lobbying is like a slow-motion jury trial. First you need to find out who the jury is and then meet with each of them one by one. So the more Democratic officeholders there are, the more you need effective, smart Democrats.''
 In 2005, at the apogee of Republican power, the Motion Picture Association of America recruited John Feehery from a top job with former Representative J. Dennis Hastert, the Illinois Republican who was then speaker of the House. But when the Democratic takeover the next year devalued Mr. Feehery's Republican connections, he lost his defense against internal personality conflicts, people involved in the association's lobbying say, and within weeks he was out the door.
 A spokesman for the association declined to comment on the departure. So did Mr. Feehery, who now runs his own lobbying shop. But he said Republican lobbyists would always be in demand because Democrats lack the stomach to push for industry goals that go against their party, like rolling back environmental regulations.
 ''At the end of the day,'' Mr. Feehery said, ''Democrats don't like to ask for the order'' -- the client's objective.
 All acknowledge, however, that the current anxiety among K Street Republicans is unusually feverish because it coincides with the economic crisis. Companies and trade associations across town are cutting back on their lobbying budgets, and amid the Democratic ascent, it is the Republican lobbyists who are the most vulnerable. 
 The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, reorganizing its staffs after the merger of two industry trade groups, recently laid off dozens of people, including its top Republican lobbyist, Mr. Hunt. He had earned about $650,000 a year in salary and benefits, according to a 2005 filing with the Internal Revenue Service. (Michael Pease, a former top aide to Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Finance Committee, was hired in October to head the association's lobbying efforts, while Mr. Hunt leases space from the association to start his own firm.)
 Officials of the American Insurance Association said its president, Mr. Racicot, the former Republican Party chairman and former governor of Montana, decided to step down in part because he concluded that the declining value of his party connections no longer justified his own compensation -- $1.8 million in 2006, according to filings.
 ''One fortunate thing for us is that a lot of our issues are not so partisan,'' said Blain K. Rethmeier, a spokesman for the association. (A former Republican aide in the Senate and the White House, Mr. Rethmeier said he was ''getting inundated now with resumes from people leaving the administration with the clock ticking down.'') 
 Mr. Bowman, who retired from the Nuclear Energy Institute, made about $1.5 million in salary and benefits in 2006, according to its filings. J. Scott Peterson, a spokesman for the institute, said the group was ''looking at the opportunity of the changing landscape to plug in a new head at the top of our organization'' and the search committee will be looking at Democrats.
 ''That would certainly, I gather, be a strength,'' Mr. Peterson said.
 Lobbying firms known for Democratic ties are experiencing a swift uptick in business. Mr. Podesta said his firm had signed up about a dozen new clients in the last few weeks. 
 ''Some of them are just calling and saying, 'We are clueless, we don't know much about the people who run the Congress and we know even less about the people who will run the White House, so help us,' '' he said.
 His brother, John Podesta, a former Clinton administration official and founder of the Center for American Progress, is heading President-elect Barack Obama's transition team. But Tony Podesta said that only ''very unsophisticated'' clients would consider his firm just for that reason, noting that John Podesta will leave in a few months at the end of the transition and that the firm does not lobby him in any event. 
 What is more, Tony Podesta said his firm had grown fully bipartisan during the Republican ascendance, even hiring more Republicans than Democrats so far this year. ''I think the market overvalues Democrats and undervalues Republicans right now,'' he said.
 Some have begun to wonder if elected Democrats, flush with a level of power the Republicans experienced a few years ago, would now emulate the K Street Project by encouraging corporations and trade groups to hire fellow Democrats instead of Republicans.
 ''It wouldn't surprise me if they do,'' said Leon E. Panetta, a former Democratic representative from California and chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, ''because the name of the game is money, and the fact is they still largely depend on lobbyists for the money to bulk up their campaigns.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (74%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); ETHICS (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1053 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: Xerox Jumps on Upbeat Forecast

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Xerox Corporation, a supplier of printing and document management services, forecast 2009 profit in line with analysts' expectations on Monday, setting off a 17.9 percent gain in its share price.
 Xerox said business from repeat customers and a recent round of cost cuts should help it weather the economic downturn.
 Shares of Xerox, which is based in Norwalk, Conn., rose 94 cents, to $6.19.
 Xerox, which said last month it planned to pare about 3,000 jobs, or about 5 percent of its work force, said it expects a profit of $1 to $1.25 a share in 2009. Analysts on average expect the company to post a profit of $1.20. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (55%)

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (94%)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1054 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'GEOMETRY OF FIRE'; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Father, Son and Issues Collide at Nexus of Iraq

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
An Iraq war veteran struggles to integrate back into a world that has no place for him in ''Geometry of Fire,'' a low-key drama by Stephen Belber that opened on Monday night at the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater. 
 Kevin O'Donnell gives a quietly compelling performance as Mel Anderson, an ex-marine back just four months after two tours and now living with his father in an apartment outside Washington. His father, Bob (Jeffrey DeMunn), gently encourages Mel to seek psychiatric care to shake him out of his emotional torpor, but the tension between them goes deeper. The liberal Bob opposed the war and was mystified when his son, an economics major and former financial analyst, enlisted. Mel resents that Bob does not see the honor in his service. 
 This fraught relationship is set alongside the story of an Arab-American's fight for justice for his dying father. Tariq (Donnie Keshawarz), who prefers the nickname T-Bone, has discovered that the house he grew up in, where his father now lies dying of a rare cancer of the blood, was built on a former testing ground for military weaponry. A class-action lawsuit has been filed by some in the neighborhood who believe the land is contaminated.
 The hard-edged intersection linking the two stories is articulated by Bob: ''We are in a war about oil gussied up as a war about chemical weapons that were never found except here in the backyard of your Saudi father's house!''
 Why is Bob talking to Tariq? As dramatic fate has it, Bob works for a company that tests the soil for the government. The two plots are further linked through the play's fourth central character, Cynthia (Jennifer Mudge), Tariq's new girlfriend, who tends bar at the dive just up the street from Mel and Bob's apartment. Mel has been killing his afternoons with Jim Beam and beer, nurturing a quiet crush on the bartender at the same time. 
 Mr. Belber, the author of several plays seen in New York in recent years, including ''Match,'' ''McReele'' and ''A Small, Melodramatic Story,'' writes fluid, naturalistic dialogue and shapes his characters with care. ''Geometry of Fire'' is hindered by the schematic, um, geometry of its plotting, but Mr. Belber's primary theme -- that we all have a responsibility to the world around us, even if it is not easily discerned -- is smartly woven into the texture of the play. (Only occasionally does a character articulate it too bluntly.)
 Mr. Belber's sensitive depiction of Mel's inner turmoil, the pride that keeps him from seeking therapy until it is possibly too late, is the strongest emotional arc in the play. And the relationship between a war-hating, self-confessed ''tree-hugger'' father (well played by Mr. DeMunn) and a son who enlists is a fresh take on the Iraq war story. 
 The production, smoothly directed by Lucie Tiberghien, shifts easily between the two primary plots on a single set by Robin Vest. Ms. Mudge also plays an officious Pentagon worker who rebuffs Tariq's questions about contamination, and a therapist who treats Mel. Mr. DeMunn doubles as an ex-serviceman, Chuck, who now gives inspirational talks to soldiers about the workings of the mind and the effects of trauma. 
 Unfortunately, Mr. Belber spoils some of the effect of his sympathetic writing in a last scene that feels contrived to produce a punchy climax. Mel has been making progress in therapy, but a confrontation with Tariq at the bar finds him going for a gun. The resolution of the scene is ambiguous, but it still concludes the play on a false, histrionic note that clashes with the quietly probing tone of what has come before. 
 GEOMETRY OF FIRE
 By Stephen Belber; directed by Lucie Tiberghien; sets by Robin Vest; costumes by Anne Kennedy; lighting by Peter West; sound by Broken Chord Collective; stage manager, Katrina Renee Herrmann; fight director, Rick Sordelet; technical director, Brian Smallwood. Presented by the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, David Van Asselt, artistic director; Sandra Coudert, managing director. At the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, between West 11th and Perry Streets, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444. Through Dec. 14. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes. 
 WITH: Jeffrey DeMunn (Bob/Chuck), Donnie Keshawarz (Tariq), Jennifer Mudge (Cynthia and others) and Kevin O'Donnell (Mel). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin O'Donnell, top, plays an ex-marine, and Donnie Keshawarz an Arab-American in ''Geometry of Fire.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDRA COUDERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (89%); THEATER (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); DRINKING PLACES (67%); CANCER (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); BLOOD DISORDERS (52%); LITIGATION (51%); CLASS ACTIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

TITLE: Geometry of Fire (Play)>; Geometry of Fire (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1055 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; 2010 BENTLEY AZURE T CONVERTIBLE LA AUTO SHOW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Out of Reach for the Merely Rich

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
Introduced on Thursday: 2010 Bentley Azure T convertible.
 Is it real? Yes. While other automakers are breaking out the lifeboats, Bentley was breaking out the bubbly (actually Gloria Ferrer Sparkling Wine; 90 points, according to Wine Spectator) at the introduction of the swank Azure T. 
 What they said: ''The Azure's proportions provided us with the ideal platform to work with when creating the new Azure T,'' said Raul Pires, Bentley's chief designer. ''The prominent haunches and supermodel body inspired our designers to create a new interpretation of a Bentley convertible with the accent placed on a more muscular, sporting stance.''
 What they didn't say: There are the rich, the very rich, and then there are the U.H.N.W. individuals. U.H.N.W. stands for Ultra High Net Worth, and it is meant to describe someone with at least $30 million (subject to change; see: ''Bailout, U.S. Treasury'') on hand in petty cash. That's who the Azure T is meant for.
 What makes it tick? A 6.75-liter V-8 -- essentially the same engine that has powered Bentleys since 1970, except that the model T also gets twin turbochargers. This configuration generates 500 horsepower and a wrenching 738 pound-feet of torque Let's hope the mileage is at least slightly better than the Azure, which at 9 m.p.g. city ranks in E.P.A. ratings as unabashedly worst-in-class.
 How much, how soon? Only 100 a year will be built, starting in fall 2009. Current headwinds in the economy notwithstanding, isn't it reassuring a decent convertible can still be had for less than $400,000? 
 How's it look? Reminiscent of classic Bentleys like the 1946 Mk. 6 and the 1955 Park Ward S1 Drophead Coupe. The stitching of the buttery leather interior is evocative, however, of the diamond quilt pattern of a 1970s polyester ski parka.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); WINE (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (69%); QUILTS & QUILTING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1056 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Strong Dollar Hurts Campbell's Profit

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Campbell Soup Company said on Monday that its quarterly profit fell 3.7 percent, despite a strong increase in soup sales, and that currency exchange rates would hurt its results for the full year. 
 Campbell said soup sales rose 12 percent and sales over all were up 3 percent as the economic downturn forced more consumers to prepare their own meals instead of eating at restaurants.
 The company said it earned $260 million, or 71 cents a share, in the period, down from $270 million, or 70 cents a share, a year earlier, when it had more shares outstanding.
 Sales in the period, which ended Nov. 2 and was the first quarter of Campbell's fiscal year, rose to $2.25 billion, from $2.19 billion.
 Campbell said a stronger dollar, which lowers the value of sales overseas, would reduce sales and earnings growth rates in the 2009 fiscal year by about five percentage points each. Campbell said it derived 25 to 30 percent of its sales from outside the United States. 
 Christopher Growe, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, said the growth in Campbell's United States soup sales, though strong, had come against easy comparisons and produced relatively little in terms of profit growth during the quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (95%)

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (95%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1057 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2281 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: November 25, 2008

 BODY:
International
 MUGABE DRAWS CRITICISM 
 For Excluding Mandela Group
 President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe heard harsh words from three members of the Elders, a group created by Nelson Mandela to handle intractable problems, after he prevented them from entering the country. The threesome described a grave humanitarian crisis in Zimbabwe and expressed disappointment in local leaders, who they said could have done more to prevent the situation. Page A8 
 AS IRAQ MULLS PACT, 18 ARE KILLED
 As if seeking to provide some sort of punctuation, three bombs -- one a suicide device carried by a woman -- were detonated in Baghdad during the morning rush hour, even as Iraq's government pressured Parliament for approval of a security pact with the United States. The explosions killed 18 people, according to the Interior Ministry. Page A12 
 THAI PROTEST SPREADS
 A protest in Thailand spread out across Bangkok in a renewed attempt to force the government to resign. The protest has forced the besieged government to abandon offices in the city's secondary airport, where the prime minister and his cabinet had been holding meetings to shield themselves from the protesters. Page A14 
 A CHANGE OF MIND IN TURKEY?
 When Recep Tayyop Erdogan was first elected prime minister, it was under a banner of reform. He made bold policy moves, and the country's liberals threw their support behind him. But he now finds himself under fire from those same former supporters, as promised reforms have failed to appear. His recent stances and speeches have reminded many of Turkey's former hard-line nationalists and military. Page A10 
 NORTH KOREA'S THREAT TO CUT TIES
 North Korea deviated sharply from recent progress in relations with South Korea when it vowed to ban tourists from the ancient city of Kaesong and ''selectively expel'' South Koreans working in a joint industrial complex there starting Dec. 1. This threat came despite the North's agreement to hold six-nation talks next month with its southern neighbors and other world powers seeking to dismantle its nuclear weapons program. Page A8 
 KREMLIN'S OPTIMISM FOR U.S. TIES
 Officials in Russia expressed optimism about improving ties with the United States under the coming administration of President-elect Barack Obama. In particular Russian leaders expressed hopes of coming to mutually satisfying terms on military issues, like the extension or replacement of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty. The treaty has significantly reduced the nuclear arsenals of both the United States and Russia. Page A10 
 National
 DOCUMENTS TIE DRUG MAKER 
 To Child Psychiatry Center
 E-mail messages and internal documents from Johnson & Johnson reveal that Dr. Joseph Biederman, a world-renowned child psychiatrist, pushed the company to finance a research center at Massachusetts General Hospital to ''move forward the commercial goals of J.& J.'' Massachusetts General said in a statement that it took the accusations related to the research center ''very seriously.'' A22
 BIDEN'S AIDE TO FILL SENATE SEAT
 Edward Kaufman, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s longtime chief of staff, will fill Mr. Biden's seat when he resigns to become vice president. Mr. Kaufman, 69, said he wanted ''to make clear that I am very comfortable with retiring after two years.'' That left open the possibility that Senator Biden's son Beau, Delaware's attorney general, could run for the seat in 2010. PAGE A20
 DOCTOR LEAVES INSTITUTE HE STARTED
 Dr. Melvin D. Levine, the famed pediatrician who is facing five lawsuits accusing him of molesting young boys during physical examinations, resigned from the North Carolina institute he founded to train teachers in helping learning disabled children. Dr. Levine, who has denied the allegations, has voluntarily suspended his license to practice and is under investigation by the North Carolina Medical Board. PAGE A17
 WEB SUICIDE SPURS DEBATE
 When a 19-year-old in Florida broadcast the video of his suicide online, some viewers cringed while others laughed. The case has prompted an outpouring of sympathy and second-guessing online. Online communities ''are like the crowd outside the building with the guy on the ledge,'' said Jeffrey Cole, a professor at the University of Southern California. ''They can enable suicide or help prevent it.'' PAGE A16
 GROUP PREDICTS SPIKE IN POVERTY
 Rising unemployment rates could push an additional 7.5 million to 10.3 million people below the federal poverty line, according to a research group. If its analysis is correct, it would be the largest jump in the poverty rate since the prolonged recession of the early 1980s, when the number of poor people climbed to 35 million from 26 million over four years. PAGE A17
 PLANNING THE PRESIDENT'S SOIREES
 The White House's next social secretary will be Desiree Rogers, above far left, a well-connected Harvard-educated socialite who is something of a Chicago celebrity. She will oversee every social event on the White House grounds, from Easter egg hunts to lavish state dinners. ''You will definitely see some new things,'' she said. ''We're not going to be superpredictable, where everything looks the same.'' PAGE A20
 New York
 TRIAL BEGINS FOR ACTOR
 Accused in Officer's Murder
 As a teenager, Lillo Brancato Jr. acted alongside Robert De Niro in the movie ''A Bronx Tale.'' Now he faces life in prison as his trial begins for a burglary that resulted in the shooting death of Police Officer Daniel Enchautegui, above. PAGE A28
 REPLACING SENATOR CLINTON
 How difficult can it possibly be to find a new junior senator for New York once Hillary Rodham Clinton takes charge at the State Department? Gov. David A. Paterson will get to pick her successor. It should be a breeze. He just needs to find a gay, black, Roman Catholic woman with a Latino surname, preferably from upstate, to satisfy every group. Clyde Haberman, NYC. PAGE A27
 Business
 WITH HIS STOCKS STRUGGLING,
 Buffett Sees His Image Take a Hit
 Warren Buffett's pronouncements and prognostications are treated by investors with uncommon reverence, with thousands of people descending upon Nebraska every year for the shareholder meeting at his holding company, Berkshire Hathaway. But amid the tumult in the markets, his image as a Wall Street soothsayer has taken a hit, as Berkshire's stock has tumbled 36 percent since Oct. 1. PAGE B1
 CONCERNS OVER TREASURY PICK
 When President-elect Barack Obama introduced his economic team, Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Mr. Obama's choice to head the Treasury Department, was the man at the center of the ensemble. But some Wall Street executives wonder if Mr. Geithner has the experience and if he's learned from his past mistakes. Andrew Ross Sorkin, Dealbook. PAGE B1
 BRITAIN TRIES TO KICK-START ECONOMY
 Britain is trying to spend its way out of its first recession in 17 years with a new plan to cut taxes and increase public spending despite a budget deficit that was among the largest of any developed nation. ''If we do nothing, we'd have a longer and deeper recession,'' said Alastair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer. PAGE B7
 A CASE OF ACUTE 'CYBERCHONDRIA'
 Microsoft published a study of Web searches conducted on the company's Live search engine and found that Web surfers commonly use the Internet to self-diagnose medical problems. But that often leads Web searchers to conclude the worst about what ails them. ''If they find 'brain tumor' or 'A.L.S.,' that's their launching point,'' said a company researcher. PAGE B3
 Sports
 WITH A POWERFUL BUSINESS MODEL,
 ESPN Flexes Its Muscle
 While the sports divisions of traditional broadcast networks derive their revenues from advertising, ESPN has billions of dollars flowing from subscribers and advertisers combined with a gaggle of cable networks, online firepower, a magazine, a radio network and international operations. Last week, it outbid Fox by $100 million to carry college football's Bowl Championship Series from 2011 to 2014. The network's stable now includes ''Monday Night Football,'' the N.B.A., Major League Baseball and vast quantities of college football and basketball. ''Where's the ceiling?'' an executive at a rival network asked. Richard Sandomir, TV Sports. PAGE B14
 DREAMING OF A SUBWAY SUPER BOWL
 The Jets and Giants have rarely been good at the same time. When one team has been good, the other has been awful. But with the Giants and the Jets each in first place and with five games remaining in the regular season, could the two franchises finally be headed toward a Super Bowl showdown? Dave Anderson, Sports of The Times. PAGE B14
 ON THE BENCH WITH THE GREAT ONE
 Wayne Gretsky comes to Madison Square Garden, where he spent three years of his storied career with the Rangers. But this time, he will arrive in his role as the head coach of the Phoenix Coyotes, a young, promising team that has not made the playoffs in five seasons and is hoping to mold itself around him. PAGE B18
 TRAINER GIVES DNA TO AUTHORITIES
 Brian McNamee, Roger Clemens's former trainer, has submitted samples of his DNA to federal investigators, who are seeking to determine whether Clemens committed perjury when he told Congress that he had never used performance-enhancing drugs, according to two persons familiar with the matter. PAGE B16
 Obituaries
 RICHARD HICKOX, 60
 He was most recently the music director of Opera Australia and was a frequent presence in the pit of the Royal Opera House in London. He had wide range and considerable entrepreneurship, made more than 300 recordings, and helped to establish a period instrument orchestra, Collegium Musicum 90. PAGE B11
 JOHN MICHAEL HAYES, 89
 He wrote some of Alfred Hitchcock's best-known films before the two split after a fight over screen credit. He adapted four films for Mr. Hitchcock: ''Rear Window,'' ''To Catch a Thief,'' ''The Trouble With Harry'' and ''The Man Who Knew Too Much.'' PAGE B11
 Arts
 KANYE WEST'S NEW TACK:
 Emotions Without Frills
 Kanye West's music is usually as self-aware as it is self-aggrandizing. His latest, ''808s & Heartbreak,'' tries a different tack, singing instead of rapping, and doing so with a kind of straightforward bluntness that Jon Caramanica writes suggests a lack of filters. PAGE C1 
 WHEN 'BIRDBRAIN' IS A COMPLIMENT
 Alex, a mischievous, bossy African gray parrot, had a vocabulary of 150 words, and could understand concepts like ''bigger,'' ''same,'' ''different'' and maybe even the existential idea of ''none.'' In ''Alex and Me,'' Irene M. Pepperberg, Alex's owner and a scientist, makes the case that ''animals know more than we think, and think a great deal more than we know.'' PAGE C1
 ROSIE REVIVES THE VARIETY HOUR
 Could the television variety show be making a comeback? Rosie O'Donnell certainly hopes so. Her one-hour special, ''Rosie Live,'' which will air Wednesday on NBC, is a trial balloon of sorts, to see if the format of comedy sketches and musical acts that was popular in the 1960s and 1970s could pull in viewers today. PAGE C1
 Science Times
 DETECTING A WHISPER, PERHAPS, FROM THE UNIVERSE'S DARK SIDE
 Is the dark side speaking? A concatenation of puzzling results from an alphabet soup of satellites and experiments has led a growing number of astronomers and physicists to suspect that they are getting signals from a universe of dark matter that makes up a quarter of creation but has eluded direct detection until now. Maybe. PAGE D1 
 MIRACLES IN MEDICINE AND LIFE
 Even die-hard skeptics stumble across medical miracles all the time: miracles disputed, miracles pursued, miracles that unfold against all expectations. Two new books go a long way toward explicating the last two categories. Dr. Jacalyn Duffin, a Canadian medical historian, examines the miracles that pave the road to sainthood in the Catholic Church. Those who prefer their miracles in more secular form might turn instead to Gary Presley's memoir of a life after polio. PAGE D5 
 HARD-TIMES HOME COOKING
 As times get tougher and reconfigured budgets force a cutback on eating out, taking out and buying expensive processed foods, a growing number of American families must now rely more on home cooking. There are time-honored tricks to making budget-conscious meals efficiently. There are also some real benefits to home cooking, not the least of which is an improvement in nutrition and health. Personal Health by Jane E. Brody. PAGE D7 
 Editorial
 MR. OBAMA'S ECONOMIC ADVISERS
 The question that most needs answering is not whether Timothy Geithner, Mr. Obama's choice for Treasury secretary, and Lawrence Summers, his choice for director of the National Economic Council, are men of talent -- obviously they are -- but whether they have learned from their past mistakes. If so, what? Page A30
 INDEFINITE DETENTION
 For more than five years, the Bush administration has been holding Ali al-Marri under the ''enemy combatant'' doctrine. The Supreme Court needs to make clear that a president cannot imprison people indefinitely simply by asserting that they are tied to terrorism. Page A30
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 The United States is gearing up to spend billions on infrastructure projects. The big challenge is to spend the money wisely. Page A31
 DID BRITAIN JUST SELL TIBET?
 Last month, Britain's foreign secretary announced that, after almost a century of recognizing Tibet as an autonomous entity, Britain had changed its mind. In an Op-Ed article, Robert Barnett, the director of the Modern Tibetan Studies Program at Columbia, writes that the concession is China's most significant victory in almost 40 years. Page A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); DISARMAMENT (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); AIRPORTS (69%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); PSYCHIATRY (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (80%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (80%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) ZIMBABWE (95%); IRAQ (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); THAILAND (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1058 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: The $64,000 Question: Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE economic downturn is renewing interest on Madison Avenue in a marketing mainstay that is particularly popular during tough times: cash giveaways.
 Contests and sweepstakes with money prizes rather than merchandise like cars, furniture or trips are appearing more frequently as the financial crisis continues. In some instances, the dollar amounts are as high as seven figures, as in a contest with a $1 million bonus being sponsored by the Doritos brand of snack chips sold by Frito-Lay.
 Who wants to be a millionaire? These days, just about everyone -- even people who a few months ago were billionaires.
 ''Everyone is trying to get you to buy something at a time when no one is buying,'' said Michael Watras, president at Straightline International, a brand consultancy in New York. ''They've got to do what they can.'' 
 The trend includes these other examples:
 ''Secret Millionaire,'' which Fox Broadcasting will introduce on Dec. 3. The reality series features wealthy men and women who live incognito in everyday neighborhoods, deciding whether to give up to $100,000 of their own money to deserving residents.
 Although Fox, part of the News Corporation, announced the show in May -- when the Dow Jones industrial average was about a million points higher than today -- ''it comes on at a time when people are more attuned to the fact many of our fellow citizens are having a hard time,'' said Chris Coelen, chief executive of RDF USA in Santa Monica, Calif., which is producing the series.
 Dubai Duty Free is dangling a $5 million prize in a raffle that is being called ''the world's biggest duty-free promotion.'' The winner will be chosen from among the purchasers of 5,000 tickets, each costing about $1,360.
 ''Wheel of Fortune,'' the game show syndicated by a unit of the Sony Corporation of America, is celebrating 5,000 episodes by giving away $5,000 a day through May 24, 2009, to members of the Wheel Watchers Club. There is also a ''Spin ID sweepstakes,'' with a $50,000 prize, for viewers who have Sony Card Visa credit cards.
 The trend echoes what took place during the Depression, when marketers eagerly gave away cash prizes on radio quiz shows and in contests advertised in magazines and newspapers. Some, like a puzzle contest sponsored by Old Gold cigarettes, which offered what Time magazine described as an ''unprecedented $100,000 first prize,'' became national crazes.
 Two decades later, when television supplanted radio, the dollar amounts ballooned; the radio quiz ''The $64 Question'' became ''The $64,000 Question'' on TV. More recently, the money multiplied again, with shows like ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'' and ''Deal or No Deal.''
 ''Money has been an incentive for a long time,'' said Andrew Keller, vice president and co-executive creative director of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners. ''Certainly the notion of offering money at a time like this is more appealing.''
 For a client, Volkswagen of America, Crispin Porter worked with @Radical.Media on a series for the Speed cable channel that chronicled a race among 30 drivers, ages 16 to 26, featuring Volkswagen Jetta TDI clean-diesel cars. In a 90-minute documentary, ''Racing Under Green,'' that Speed showed on Saturday, the winner of the race, Josh Hurley, 23, of Cooper City, Fla., won $100,000 from Volkswagen to begin his racing career; he will win another $150,000 if he lands a berth with a professional team.
 ''For young people getting into racing, they've experienced for some time what might be termed a financial crisis,'' Mr. Keller said, ''because it's an expensive sport.''
 However, at a time when many companies have less to spend on marketing, Mr. Keller wondered whether giving cash to consumers amounts to '' 'renting' them to participate in your advertising.''
 That thought was echoed by David Melancon, chief executive at the Ito Partnership, a brand consulting company in New York, who warned about the long-term implications of what he described as ''selling out your brand for a couple quarters of growth.''
 ''While you can say, 'If I don't make it through the next two quarters, there is no long term,' certain marketing tactics are like taking a mortgage against your brand,'' Mr. Melancon said, ''and mortgages are what got us into this.''
 A cash giveaway can make sense ''when it connects in the consumer's mind to the brand's purpose,'' he added, citing a contest sponsored by CNBC called the CNBC.com Million Dollar Portfolio Challenge. The first prize is $500,000 in cash, the second prize is $200,000, and the third prize is $100,000.
 ''The prize money is certainly attractive,'' said Tom Clendenin, vice president for marketing at CNBC, part of the NBC Universal division of the General Electric Company. ''But people like the opportunity to learn more about the market and about the cnbc.com site.''
 This is the third time for the contest, which was first played in spring 2007 and returned in spring 2008. The fall run began its make-believe trading on Nov. 17 and ends on Feb. 6, 2009.
 ''We're trying to capitalize on the traffic to the site,'' Mr. Clendenin said, referring to the increasing number of visitors to cnbc.com, ''as well as drive people to the site.'' The contest has ''thousands of players,'' he added, declining to be more specific.
 For the Doritos contest, Frito-Lay, a unit of PepsiCo, is somewhat more forthcoming with statistics. The $1 million bonus has resulted in ''a pretty significant increase'' in entries, said a spokesman for Frito-Lay in Plano, Tex., Chris Kuechenmeister to more than 1,700 from about 1,100 for a previous contest.
 The Crash the Super Bowl contest asks consumers to create commercials for Doritos for a 30-second time slot during Super Bowl XLIII on Feb. 1, 2009. Five finalists will be announced in January; each wins $25,000. Computer users will be able to vote online from among the five spots for the commercial they want to see during the game.
 If that commercial is ranked first in the annual Ad Meter poll conducted by USA Today, the creator gets the $1 million bonus. 
 Although the idea for the bonus came well before the financial crisis began, ''certainly the $1 million prize is something we thought people would find attractive,'' Mr. Kuechenmeister said.
 Asked whether a million dollars seemed more valuable today than when the idea was developed, he replied, laughing, that even ''a dollar seems more valuable today.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CNBC is offering cash prizes to participants in a fantasy stock picking contest created to market its Web site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SWEEPSTAKES (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BRANDING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); SNACK FOODS (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%); STOCK INDEXES (65%); PRINT ADVERTISING (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); NEWS CORP (68%); FRITO-LAY INC (57%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (52%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (68%); NWS (ASX) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1059 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Times Home Cooking, Made Easier

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
As times get tougher and reconfigured budgets force a cutback on eating out, taking out and buying expensive processed foods, a growing number of American families must now rely more on home cooking. 
 Before you despair at the prospect of spending many more hours in the kitchen, realize that there are time-honored tricks to making budget-conscious meals efficiently. There are also some very real benefits to home cooking for you and your loved ones. Not the least of them is the improvement in nutrition and health that comes from cooking for a few instead of many and from being in control of the ingredients and portion sizes.
 You just may find that when the economic crisis eases, you're not even tempted to return to your old dependence on foods made by others.
 ''The trend toward home cooking may be the one benefit to come from what's happening to the economy,'' said Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at New York University and the author of books on food, including the very helpful ''What to Eat'' (North Point Press, 2006). 
 ''Today, nearly half the typical family's food budget goes for food prepared and eaten outside the home, where businesses with motives having nothing to do with health are in control of content and amounts,'' Dr. Nestle writes in the book. 
 As a friend recently put it: ''If I eat out on Saturday and Sunday, I end up weighing three to five pounds more on Monday. No matter how carefully you choose, you can't know how each dish is prepared and how many calories you're consuming.'' 
 The same is true of processed foods from the supermarket. ''The cost is higher because you're paying for the packaging and processing, and the most heavily advertised foods are high in added sugars and salt that none of us need,'' Dr. Nestle said in an interview. 
 Cooking at home can help you retrain your taste buds and learn to enjoy the natural flavors of foods.
 Saving Time in the Kitchen
 Time is a valuable commodity, and I'm the last to suggest squandering it. But when you prepare only one meal at a time, that is exactly what you're doing. Who made a rule that you can't eat the same meal two or three nights in a row? I cook in batches, making enough of a recipe for two, three, even four meals and often enough to freeze an individual portion or two. 
 ''Cooked food is sterile to begin with, and if it is stored at refrigerator temperatures, it can keep for a week,'' Dr. Nestle said. ''Or you can freeze portions to eat several weeks later.'' (Be sure to label and date whatever you put in the freezer.)
 Frozen vegetables are another time saver. 
 ''Since they are usually picked at the peak of ripeness, they tend to be highest in nutritional value and flavor,'' Dr. Nestle said. No washing, peeling or cutting involved. They are ready to heat or combine with other ingredients. Those tiny frozen peas add color, texture and valuable nutrients to many dishes. And a package of frozen vegetables serves three or four.
 If you prefer fresh vegetables and are cooking for one or preparing only one meal at a time, you will waste less food if your market has a salad bar where you can buy just the amount of vegetables you need.
 While purists may insist on cooking dried beans from scratch, which saves money but costs time, canned beans that are rinsed to reduce the salt and get rid of the gunk are excellent sources of protein. 
 Like peas, beans can be combined with many other foods, including rice or pasta (very cheap) and couscous or bulgur (more expensive but also more nutritious). If you do take the time to cook beans from scratch, make enough to freeze. 
 Pasta, of course, is an inexpensive and satisfying food that even the most finicky of eaters is likely to enjoy. Whole wheat varieties cost a bit more but are also more nourishing. 
 Pasta or potatoes can be mixed with simple sauces containing vegetables and small amounts of meat, fish, poultry or beans to create a one-dish family meal. A handful of nuts can add delightful crunch, flavor and protein. Save time by preparing the remaining ingredients or a salad while the pasta water boils or the potatoes cook.
 But pay attention to portions. A serving of pasta is two ounces of the dried food, which means a pound contains eight servings, not two or three. If you eat two servings, which most people would, you double the calories.
 Perhaps the biggest health benefit of home cooking can be getting used to a more reasonable amount of food, not the gargantuan portions served in most restaurants.
 Flavor From a Windowsill
 While relatively few Americans have the space and climate to grow their own food year-round, nearly everyone can grow herbs in pots on a windowsill and add flavor to foods without overdoing salt, sugar and fat.
 As for beverages, forget bottled water and soda. Tap water is fine. Consider buying milk by the gallon for a family. But if it takes you two weeks to use up a quart, try a more costly but less wasteful ultrapasteurized brand. Or divide ordinary milk into small containers and freeze them.
 For desserts, try seasonal fruits, fresh or cooked, either alone or as a topping on low-fat or nonfat vanilla yogurt. Apples and pears are at their best right now, and we'll soon have plenty of American-grown oranges and grapefruits. Apples baked or cut up and simmered with raisins are a nutritious and delicious family favorite.
 For breakfast, try a hot cereal like oatmeal -- regular or quick-cooking -- or French toast made with whole wheat bread, either of which can be topped with fresh or stewed fruit. A grilled cheese sandwich on whole grain bread is another nutritious, economical choice. If time is an issue in the morning, set up the breakfast the night before for quick cooking when it's time to eat. 
 The Brown Bag
 For meals that must be eaten out, I've been a brown-bagger my whole life, both at work and on family excursions. It saves time and lots of money, and I know what my family and I are eating. 
 Once you get over the ''have-tos'' of cooking, you just may discover that it's fun. 
 ''You can experiment, try a variety of foods, flavors and dishes, make a family activity out of it, and you get to eat the result,'' Dr. Nestle said. ''Children who are involved in food preparation are likely to be more interested in eating the output. At the same time, they acquire a valuable life skill.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY AUDE VAN RYN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); FOOD MFG (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NUTRITION (75%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); WRITERS (67%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (56%); NORTH POINT PRESS (55%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1060 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Hugo Chavez's Choice

 BODY:
Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, is not feeling the love. Collapsing oil prices have sharply curtailed his ability to buy public sympathies, and Barack Obama's election has removed the United States as a convenient foe to be berated as needed to energize his base. 
 In Sunday's state and municipal elections, Venezuelans showed just how fed up they are with his government's authoritarianism and incompetence by rejecting the president's allies in significant races. 
 Mr. Chavez did pretty much everything he could to skew the elections. His government increased public spending by 60 percent in the last year. A government watchdog disqualified many opposition candidates on what international monitors agreed were bogus corruption charges. 
 Despite that, the opposition carried Venezuela's two largest cities, including Caracas, the capital. It also won 5 of 22 provinces, including the richest and most populous. The results mean that the opposition will rule more than half of Venezuela's population. 
 The president's allies still control the National Assembly, the Supreme Court and all the state-run companies, including Petroleos de Venezuela, the oil monopoly known as Pdvsa. His government has whittled away at provincial governors' power and revenue. 
 For all the rhetoric about revolution and social change, the Chavez era also has brought Venezuelans soaring food prices, overflowing sewers and a surge in gang violence. The lesson from Sunday's defeat -- less than a year after voters rejected his plan for a power-grabbing constitutional reform -- is that Venezuelans don't want to give Mr. Chavez even more power. 
 He should heed the message. Rather than lash out at his opponents, Mr. Chavez must accept democratic limits to his rule. He should stop trying to extend his control -- by hook or crook -- over all of Venezuela's political and economic institutions. He should abandon for good his push to change the Constitution so that he can run for a third term in 2013. Venezuelans deserve the chance to choose a competent government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); FOOD PRICES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); CITIES (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%)

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1061 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Buffett to Offer Details on Derivatives

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Warren E. Buffett has long been an proponent of transparency and a critic of murky financial instruments. Now, as his investment firm's stock takes its worst beating in years, America's avuncular prophet of capitalism is promising to shed some light on his own opaque investments.
 Shares of Mr. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, a sprawling empire of companies and stocks with the highest possible credit rating, have tumbled 36 percent since Oct. 1. And the cost of protecting Berkshire against default -- a measure of investor confidence in a company -- has doubled over the past two weeks, reaching levels more often associated with debt ratings near junk status.
 The primary concern is Berkshire's involvement in two types of derivatives, instruments that became increasingly taboo after the declines at the American International Group, Lehman Brothers and other financial institutions.
 While Mr. Buffett once derided derivatives as ''weapons of financial mass destruction,'' investors were concerned about bets he made that assume four stock market indexes, including the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, would rise to certain levels by 2019. 
 On Monday, Mr. Buffett said he would disclose in the next annual report more information about how Berkshire Hathaway calculates losses on such investments. 
 To say Mr. Buffett is among the world's most respected investors is an understatement. Thousands descend on Nebraska every year to listen to his observations at Berkshire's shareholder meeting, and dozens of books have been written about his buy-and-hold investing strategy. Companies acquired by Berkshire are considered best-in-breed -- Goldman Sachs and General Electric sought such prestige when they announced investments by Mr. Buffett in September and October. (To secure his support, both agreed to pay millions of dollars in annual dividends to Berkshire.)
 During the 2008 presidential campaign, Mr. Buffett was more than an informal adviser to Senator Barack Obama: his name was invoked by both candidates as a bipartisan totem, meant to assure voters that the economy would get better. 
 But Mr. Buffett's primary business, Berkshire, has been tarnished. Class A shares in the company, whose core business is insurance, fell for nine straight days through Thursday and are down 38 percent for the year.
 The Class A shares rose Friday but fell Monday, to $87,500. That values Berkshire, which owns NetJets, See's Candies and Fruit of the Loom, as well as shares in blue-chip companies like Coca-Cola and General Electric, at about $136 billion, a 37 percent decline from Berkshire's $216 billion market value on Jan. 2.
 That decline has struck hard at Mr. Buffett's personal fortune, a third of which is tied up in Berkshire stock. And it is a sign of the malaise that has gripped markets amid the most sweeping financial turmoil since the 1930s. 
 ''It is truly an extraordinary sign of the times that people appear to have lost faith in Buffett's investing acumen and conservative nature,'' Whitney R. Tilson, a hedge fund manager who owns Berkshire shares, said. 
 In a recent interview on the Fox Business Network, Mr. Buffett professed little worry about Berkshire's steep stock drop. ''It's happened to me three other times in my life, too,'' he said, mentioning a 55 percent decline in 1974-75 and a 50 percent fall between 1998 and 2000.
 Yet Mr. Buffett's stamp of approval has failed to work its former magic more often than not recently. In October, he publicly supported the government's first proposed bailout plan -- only to see the House of Representatives shoot it down. And despite his glowing appraisals of Goldman and G.E., the former has since fallen about 46 percent and the latter 38 percent.
 On paper, Berkshire's core business appears to be performing in line with the rest of the market. The company's third-quarter profit fell 77 percent from last year, hurt in part by the impact of two hurricanes on its insurance business and drops in the value of many of its stock investments. Still, Berkshire avoided the sort of risky bets that sank rivals like A.I.G., and its wide array of portfolio companies could help ensure that at least some of its businesses are doing well.
 Nonetheless, investors had become increasingly nervous about Berkshire's derivative bets -- in particular, those that gambled on targets for four major stock market indexes by 2019. Berkshire sold these private contracts to unknown investors, reaping $4.85 billion upfront. 
 In the worst-case situation -- that each index falls to zero then -- Berkshire could have to pay as much as $35.5 billion when the contracts come due. 
 Because of accounting rules, Berkshire has already had to mark down the value of those contracts by $6.73 billion. Many in the markets appeared to fear that Mr. Buffett had chased easy money and exposed his company to significant risk. Letters disclosed by the Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday show that the S.E.C. began asking Berkshire for more information on the contracts in June.
 Perhaps the most striking indicator of that concern was in Berkshire's credit-default swaps, which protect buyers of those contracts against the company's inability to meet its debt payments. Buying $10 million worth of that protection cost $490,000 on Thursday, nearly double what the cost was on Nov. 6, according to data from CMA DataVision. On Jan. 1, that same protection would have cost $32,600. (On Monday, the cost of that protection fell to $365,000.)
 But Mr. Buffett has said Berkshire does not have to post collateral on those derivative contracts until they expire in at least 10 years, yielding no exposure to potentially enormous payments until 2019. Mr. Tilson, the hedge fund manager, predicted that Mr. Buffett ''will not have to pay out a single dollar'' on those derivatives, adding that the rising swap prices might stem from the illiquid market for those instruments. Mr. Tilson added that Berkshire had invested in derivatives like these before.
 And while Berkshire's credit-default swaps have jumped in price, the company's bonds have not shown any signs of distress, with none trading below 95 cents on the dollar. That suggests that bond investors consider the likelihood of a Berkshire default highly unlikely.
 Mr. Tilson said some of the selling in Berkshire shares came from institutional investors like mutual funds, some of which needed to raise cash to meet investor redemption requests.
 Some investors say that the drop in Berkshire's stock has its upside.
 ''I hope I don't run out of cash before I get a chance to acquire more wonderful shares in Berkshire,'' Frank Betz, a partner at Carret Zane Capital Management, said. 
 As for Mr. Buffett, he conceded to Fox Business Network that he had made mistakes in the past. But, he added, so what?
 ''If you don't make mistakes, you don't get out of bed in the morning,'' he said. ''That doesn't bother me at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren E. Buffett, chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) CHART: Buffett's Shine Dims: Confidence that Berkshire Hathaway, run by Warren Buffett, will stay unscathed by the financial crisis has waned recently, with the stock falling and the cost of credit-default insurance rising.(Sources: Bloomberg
 CMA DataVision) Chart details line graphs.(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DIVIDENDS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); NETJETS INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM OPERATING LTD (51%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INTERNATIONAL LTD (51%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INC (51%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (91%); BRK.A (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (51%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (51%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1062 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Polly Wanna Cracker? Squawk! Do Better, That's So Bush League

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
ALEX & ME 
 How a Scientist and a Parrot Uncovered a Hidden World of Animal Intelligence -- and Formed a Deep Bond in the Process 
 By Irene M. Pepperberg 
 Illustrated. 232 pages. Collins. $23.95. 
 When Alex the African gray parrot died in 2007, the world mourned. The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times and The Boston Globe ran articles reviewing his life achievements. The Economist devoted its obituary for the week of Sept. 22, 2007, to Alex. (Earlier weeks had featured Luciano Pavarotti and Ingmar Bergman.) ABC News, CNN and National Public Radio did segments about his lifetime collaboration with the scientist Irene M. Pepperberg. And an Internet condolence book (remembering-alex.org) was set up so that fans could grieve in public.
 ''Alex, the African gray parrot who was smarter than the average U.S. president, has died at the relatively tender age of 31,'' read an obituary in The Guardian of London. ''He could count to six, identify colors, understand concepts such as bigger and smaller and had a vocabulary of 150 words. To his supporters he was proof that the phrase 'birdbrain' should be expunged from the dictionary.'' 
 As his owner and colleague, Dr. Pepperberg, writes in her charming new book, ''Alex & Me,'' the parrot she bought in a Chicago pet store in 1977 would help open a new window on the capacity of birds and other animals to think and communicate. 
 ''Alex taught me to believe that his little bird brain was conscious in some matter, that is, capable of intention,'' Dr. Pepperberg writes. ''By extrapolation, Alex taught me that we live in a world populated by thinking, conscious creatures.'' 
 In this volume Dr. Pepperberg -- an associate research professor at Brandeis and a teacher of animal cognition at Harvard -- describes her three-decade-long relationship with Alex and her struggle to win recognition from the scientific establishment, which was dominated, when she began working with the parrot, by ''the behaviorists' gospel,'' which held that ''animals are automatons, responding mindlessly to stimuli.'' 
 In the 1980s, however, ''the fortress of human uniqueness came under attack'' with the findings of Jane Goodall and others who worked with primates, and Dr. Pepperberg proposed to ''replicate the linguistic and cognitive skills that had been previously achieved with chimps in a gray parrot, an animal with a brain the size of a shelled walnut, but one that could talk.'' 
 Her book movingly combines the scientific detail of a researcher, intent on showing with ''statistical confidence'' that Alex ''did indeed have this or that cognitive ability,'' with the affectionate understanding that children (and children's books about animals) instinctively possess: that ''animals know more than we think, and think a great deal more than we know.'' While her training as a scientist keeps her from lapsing into sentimentality, her love for her longtime avian colleague keeps her from sounding like a stuffy academic. 
 Through years of painstaking trials, Dr. Pepperberg worked to show that her parrot was not just parroting things he'd heard from his handlers, but that he could also distinguish colors and shapes and sizes, that he understood concepts like ''bigger,'' ''same,'' ''different'' and perhaps even the existential idea of ''none.'' 
 Intellectually, Dr. Pepperberg said, Alex had the development of a 5-year-old; emotionally, that of a 2-year-old. He could identify objects by their color, size and material; do basic addition; and is said to have had a concept of phonemes, the sounds that make up words. 
 When Alex was sick of working, Dr. Pepperberg reports, he would ignore his handlers, preen his feathers or say, ''Wanna go back,'' meaning he wanted to return to his cage. When he knocked over a coffee cup or gave a wrong answer, he would say, ''I'm sorry,'' suggesting, Dr. Pepperberg says, that he'd ''learned that 'I'm sorry' is associated with defusing a tense, angry and potentially dangerous moment.''
 Alex's essential personality, however, was mischievous, supremely confidant, even bossy. ''Once Alex had learned how to label objects and request things,'' Dr. Pepperberg writes, ''he relished the control it gave him over his environment, the ability to manipulate the people around him.'' Her students joked that they were ''Alex's slaves,'' and he was merciless with new handlers, running through his entire repertory of labels and requests: ''Want corn ... want nut ... wanna go shoulder ... wanna go gym.'' 
 He was easily bored with the repetitious trials Dr. Pepperberg and her students created for him, and he could be condescending with the other birds in the lab, correcting them with a brisk ''You're wrong'' or ''Say better.'' 
 And yet, like most gray parrots, who grow up in the wild in highly socialized communities, Ms. Pepperberg writes, Alex ''was very empathic'':
 ''He could sense when I was particularly blue. He would sit close with me at these times, just being Alex. Not Alex the mischievous imp; not Alex the boss of the lab; not the demanding Alex. Just Alex the empathic presence. He'd sometimes say, 'You tickle,' and bend his head so I could scratch his face. As I did, the white area around his eyes turned a subtle pink, blushing as grays do when being intimate. His eyes would squint almost closed.'' 
 Alex (whose name began as an acronym for the research project Avian Language Experiment) died on Sept. 6, 2007, apparently of a fatal arrhythmia, heart attack or stroke. His last words to Dr. Pepperberg were: ''You be good. I love you.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Irene M. Pepperberg (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARPERCOLLINS VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ZOOLOGY (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (89%); ANIMALS (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (74%); PETS (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); LINGUISTICS (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Alex & Me (Book)>; Alex & Me (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1063 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Not A Moment Too Soon

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
It looks as if the U.S. is about to have a president, at long last, who gets it when it comes to jobs.
 There doesn't appear to be anything faint-hearted about Barack Obama's plans to stimulate the economy, which hasn't come this close to flat-lining since the 1930s. The president-elect's recovery plan emphasizes job creation, and the path to that end winds through the nation's long-neglected infrastructure.
 Some of us have been beating that drum for years. 
 In a radio address on Saturday, Mr. Obama described his plan as follows:
 ''It will be a two-year, nationwide effort to jump-start job creation in America and lay the foundation for a strong and growing economy.
 ''We'll put people back to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, modernizing schools that are failing our children and building wind farms and solar panels, fuel-efficient cars and the alternative energy technologies that can free us from our dependence on foreign oil and keep our economy competitive in the years ahead.''
 The message is many years overdue. The hope is that it hasn't come too late.
 The idea that the nation had all but stopped investing in its infrastructure, and that officials in Washington have ignored the crucial role of job creation as the cornerstone of a thriving economy is beyond mind-boggling. It's impossible to understand.
 Impossible, that is, until you realize that bandits don't waste time repairing a building that they're looting.
 The question now is whether the nation, in the midst of a full-blown economic emergency, can keep its cool and be smart as it marshals billions of public dollars for a new infrastructure initiative. It won't be helpful to have sparkling new bridges to nowhere being built from coast to coast.
 The smartest step when it comes to infrastructure would be for the new administration to follow through on the president-elect's campaign promise to create a national infrastructure bank that would not just raise money and invest in the nation's infrastructure, but would also bring a measure of coherence to the myriad projects that need to go forward.
 One of the reasons the U.S. is in such deep trouble is that it has stopped being smart -- turning its back on excellence, sophistication and long-term planning -- in its public policies and corporate behavior. We've seen it in Iraq, in New Orleans, in the fiscal policies of the Bush administration, in the scandalous neglect of public education, in the financial sector meltdown, the auto industry and on and on. We've lionized dimwits. And now we're paying the price.
 If we're going to rebuild the nation, with the hope of putting millions to work in the process, we should do it in the way that makes the most sense and brings the biggest bang for our megabucks.
 Right now infrastructure projects go forward willy-nilly. They are often financed haphazardly and are subjected to the worst kinds of political influence.
 Senator Chris Dodd of Connecticut is sponsoring a bill that would create an infrastructure bank with a bipartisan board of directors and a chief executive to be appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. 
 The board would streamline the process of reviewing and signing off on major infrastructure proposals. It would determine the value to the public of each project -- and its environmental impact. It would provide federal investment capital for approved projects and use that money to leverage private investment.
 ''Our major economic competitors in the 21st century are spending seven, eight, nine percent of their gross domestic product on infrastructure,'' said Senator Dodd. ''We're spending almost nothing at all.''
 The U.S. is moving from a period in which leaders spent money on wars and on lavish tax cuts for the rich, but not on investments in the nation's future. That era of breathtaking irresponsibility must come to an end. Which means that now, with so much federal money soon to be available for infrastructure projects, it's crucially important to spend the money as wisely as possible.
 Investment in infrastructure right now is vital for two reasons. In a New York Review of Books article pushing the idea of an infrastructure bank, Felix Rohatyn and Everett Ehrlich wrote:
 ''Ultimately, we face a future of mass transit strained beyond capacity, planes sitting on tarmacs, slow traffic and wasteful sprawl, ports that lack the capacity to operate efficiently, and increasing numbers of bridges and dams that are obsolescent and dangerous to the public's health and safety.''
 That's one reason. The other is that we're never going to get out of this economic fix if we can't swing open the doors to millions of new jobs. Infrastructure investment is one of the keys to that objective.
 So we're going to do it. But will we be smart about it? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); WIND ENERGY (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (67%); WIND POWER PLANTS (67%); SOLAR ENERGY (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1064 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA AND BUSH WORKING TO CALM VOLATILE MARKET

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Edmund L. Andrews and David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama sought to seize the reins of the economic crisis Monday as he and his new economic team worked closely with President Bush to inject confidence into the trembling financial markets, which rallied and erased most of last week's losses.
 The coordination between Mr. Obama and Mr. Bush was taking place among aides, as well as in direct talks about the rescue plan for Citigroup and unresolved details of the overall Treasury bailout plan. The president said his successor would be informed of every ''big decision'' that was made, adding, ''It's important for the American people to know that there is close cooperation.'' 
 To calm anxious markets, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury plan to announce a major lending program on Tuesday to jump-start frozen loan markets, administration officials said. The Treasury had signaled earlier this month that it was considering such an action for consumer loans, but the action to be announced will broaden the program to include business debt. 
 In effect, the program would create a government bank to finance hundreds of billions of dollars in commercial debt, like car loans, student loans and business leases. The Treasury is expected to contribute $10 billion to $20 billion in seed capital, which would come from the $700 billion originally provided to shore up the financial system. The Federal Reserve would lend the new entity as much as 20 times that amount.
 For his part, Mr. Obama sought to assure Americans and foreign investors that he was seeking to fill any leadership vacuum, and said his economic advisers would begin working ''today.'' The advisers include Timothy F. Geithner, his choice for Treasury secretary. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index rose 6.4 percent, and the Dow Jones industrials jumped 4.9 percent, reprising the Friday upswing.
 As if to underscore the transfer of power now under way, Mr. Obama introduced his new economic team at a news conference here shortly after Mr. Bush made brief remarks outside the Treasury Department.
 Mr. Obama expressed support for the Citigroup plan and urged Congress to adopt swiftly a major plan to stimulate spending and to reverse job losses.
 ''The news this past week, including this morning's news about Citigroup,'' Mr. Obama said, ''has made it even more clear that we are facing an economic crisis of historic proportions. If we do not act swiftly and boldly, most experts now believe that we could lose millions of jobs next year.''
 Democratic leaders in Congress are gearing up to move quickly on an economic recovery package that aides said could cost more than $500 billion. The goal is to have a legislative package approved by the House and the Senate and ready for Mr. Obama to sign, perhaps on his first day in office, in January.
 ''We have to make sure,'' Mr. Obama said, ''that the stimulus is significant enough that it really gives a jolt to the economy.'' 
 The president-elect declined to estimate the size or scope of such legislation, but he said, ''We are going to do what's required.'' 
 In addition to Mr. Geithner as his nominee for Treasury secretary, Mr. Obama also named a former Treasury secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, to head the White House Economic Council and described Mr. Summers's experience as essential to ''navigate the uncharted waters of this economic crisis.''
 The selections of Mr. Geithner, who played a large role in the Citigroup rescue plan as president of the Federal Reserve Bank in New York, and Mr. Summers, now a Harvard economist, signaled that Mr. Obama intended to pursue aggressive, yet centrist policies, in finding ways to help jump-start the economy. 
 Over the next four weeks, Mr. Obama intends to announce most of his cabinet. 
 While he has already settled on most of the key members, including Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico as commerce secretary, the president-elect made certain that his first formal cabinet selections dealt with the economy rather than national security, which more often is given first mention.
 Mr. Obama also announced Monday that he had chosen Christina D. Romer to head his Council of Economic Advisers and Melody Barnes as director of his White House Domestic Policy Council. Ms. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley; Ms. Barnes is a longtime aide to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 Mr. Obama, who has largely been secluded from public view since being elected three weeks ago as the 44th president, is taking steps to be more visible in the next phase of his transition. He is scheduled Tuesday to name his budget director, Peter R. Orszag, who held the job under President Bill Clinton, and is expected to outline new budget reforms that will call on Americans to make sacrifices.
 ''Right now, our economy is trapped in a vicious cycle,'' Mr. Obama said at the news conference here. ''The turmoil on Wall Street means a new round of belt-tightening for families and businesses on Main Street, and as folks produce less and consume less, that just deepens the problems in our financial markets.''
 As a presidential candidate, Mr. Obama criticized the Bush administration tax cuts for upper-income Americans. On Monday, he declined to say whether he would seek to repeal the tax cuts immediately or rather wait for them to expire in 2011. His advisers have said that his January economic stimulus plan will not include tax increases, for fear of upsetting the economy.
 Mr. Obama noted that he still intended to pursue a middle-class tax cut. ''The very wealthiest among us,'' he said, ''will pay a little bit more in order for us to be able to invest in the economy and get it back on track.''
 He also said the struggling domestic automobile industry could not be allowed ''simply to vanish.'' But he also said that companies should not get ''a blank check'' from taxpayers and that he was surprised the auto companies' chief executives were not better prepared with specific recovery proposals when they visited Capitol Hill last week.
 ''My attitude is that we should help the auto industry,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But what we should expect is that any additional money that we put into the auto industry, any help that we provide, is designed to assure a long-term, sustainable auto industry and not just kicking the can down the road.''
 Under the new financing program that Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. plans to announce on Tuesday, the Federal Reserve would create a new special-purpose entity that would buy a wide range of consumer and business debt. The Treasury would contribute the ''equity'' part of the fund, which would absorb most of the losses that might occur. The Fed would then pump in as much as 95 percent of the money that would be used to purchase assets.
 The new fund would, in effect, close the circle in the chaotic evolution of the Treasury rescue effort, officially known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. Under the new version, the government would once again plan to buy assets, including some troubled ones. The Fed would provide most of the money and buy comparatively healthy debt, like bundles of car loans, that private investors have stopped buying in recent weeks. 
 Laurence H. Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, said the new program would give the Federal Reserve a new way to reduce borrowing costs at a time when its standard tool, the overnight federal funds rate, is already close to zero.
 ''This approach,'' Mr. Meyer wrote in a note to clients on Monday, ''would allow the Fed to buy private assets that are now very illiquid and trading at distressed levels.'' 
 Mr. Obama offered few specific details of his economic program but suggested that he would include an array of his campaign proposals into his opening legislative package. Rebuilding the economy, he said, ''will require action on a great variety of fronts, from education and health care to energy and Social Security.''
 Throughout the news conference, which was televised by all the cable and broadcast networks, Mr. Obama spoke in serious tones. There were no bursts of laughter or light-hearted moments, which punctuated his first postelection news conference more than two weeks ago. Instead, he described the financial outlook in some of the bleakest terms he has used. 
 ''The economy's likely to get worse before it gets better,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Full recovery will not happen immediately. And to make the investments we need, we'll have to scour our federal budget, line by line, and make meaningful cuts and sacrifices.''
 The announcement of Mr. Obama's economic team, as well as the broad outlines of his recovery plan, was met by positive reviews from Congressional leaders. But few details have been worked out for how such a sweeping proposal could be ready in time for Mr. Obama's swearing in.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Tuesday about the naming of President-elect Barack Obama's new economic team misidentified the job held in the Clinton administration by Peter R. Orszag, who has been selected as Mr. Obama's budget director. He was an economic adviser to President Bill Clinton; he was not Mr. Clinton's budget director.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President-elect Barack Obama on Monday in Chicago with three new members of his economic team, from left, Timothy F. Geithner, Christina D. Romer and Lawrence H. Summers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A1)
 Barack Obama on Monday with his economic advisers, from left, Timothy F. Geithner, Christina D. Romer, Lawrence H. Summers and Melody Barnes. Also on the stage is Joseph R. Biden Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HAYNES/REUTERS)(A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); APPROVALS (68%); CORPORATE DEBT (68%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (74%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1065 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Geithner, Rescue-Team Veteran, Has Head Start in Seizing Reins

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For the last year, Timothy F. Geithner has been at the very heart of dealing with the financial crisis, the junior partner with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve. Together, they scrambled to save Bear Stearns, American International Group and Citigroup, while letting Lehman Brothers fail.
 Now Mr. Geithner, youthful president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and President-elect Barack Obama's choice for Treasury secretary, will be thrust from go-between to the head of the table. He will graduate from team player to team captain, steering the new administration's economic policies and its plan to rescue the financial system.
 The two-month wait until Mr. Obama takes office could be awkward, so much so that people who know Mr. Geithner say he may step down from the New York Fed within a few weeks. That would give him an early start in developing a stimulus plan, which Mr. Obama's aides say they are coordinating with Democratic leaders in Congress and hope to pass before the inauguration. 
 Mr. Geithner's immersion in the critical events of the crisis and his close ties to Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke, both appointees of President Bush, will provide a vital sense of continuity for the rescue effort, Mr. Obama indicated on Monday in Chicago.
 ''Tim will waste no time getting up to speed,'' Mr. Obama said in announcing his intention to nominate Mr. Geithner. ''He will start his first day on the job with a unique insight into the failures of today's markets and a clear vision of the steps we must take to revive them.''
 Experts said Mr. Geithner would have to make a series of difficult decisions, in quick succession, about how to proceed with a rescue effort that has been marked by political tension, reversals and a growing sense of confusion, as Mr. Paulson appears to be hostage to events.
 And he will have to do this in the vortex of a deepening economic crisis, at home and abroad, that could limit his options. Though Mr. Geithner, 47, cut his teeth in past crises, most overseas, economists who know him say little could have prepared him for the magnitude of responsibility he is assuming.
 ''It's hard to think of a moment in history where a new Treasury secretary has started in this position,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard. ''It's a position of incredible responsibility. He really has to reshape the financial system, on the run.''
 While the weekend rescue of Citigroup calmed the financial markets, Mr. Rogoff described it as merely a ''temporizing measure'' that would have to be followed by other steps. Indeed, there were reports Monday of a vast new loan-purchase initiative being readied by the Fed and the Treasury.
 As the rescue plan has mutated from asset purchases to direct injections of capital, Mr. Geithner has worked hard to maintain a public alliance with Mr. Paulson, who on Monday welcomed his nomination and noted that Mr. Geithner had been ''critical to designing and implementing'' the financial industry's rescue. 
 But people familiar with his thinking say Mr. Geithner has had significant differences with Mr. Paulson over how the bailout should proceed.
 Mr. Geithner has expressed support for the idea of modifying large numbers of loans held by subprime borrowers, a move Mr. Paulson has largely avoided. Such modifications would create a psychological lift for the nation, Mr. Geithner has told others, and would help resolve uncertainty in the financial markets by creating support for home prices. 
 Mr. Geithner has also voiced private support for purchasing distressed assets from banks, which was originally the focus of the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. Mr. Paulson abandoned that strategy this month in favor of direct capital injections into the banks. Asset purchases, Mr. Geithner has told associates, would revive investor confidence in many banks, whereas announcing plans to abandon those purchases introduced more uncertainty, as Citigroup discovered last week.
 Lobbyists for the financial industry who favor asset purchases are hopeful that Mr. Geithner will move the program back in that direction. The bailout of Citigroup was a positive step, they say, although what the government has agreed to do is absorb most of the losses on $306 billion in home and commercial real estate assets on Citigroup's balance sheet rather than buying those assets outright.
 ''It's getting closer to the piece we think is necessary, but it doesn't quite get us there,'' said Timothy Ryan, chief executive of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.
 Mr. Ryan, who helped direct the government's rescue of the savings and loan industry in the 1990s, said Mr. Geithner's involvement in the current rescue effort would give him an invaluable head start.
 ''He's one of a core group of government executives who's been part of every decision,'' Mr. Ryan said.
 Robert S. Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum, which represents large institutions, said the transition from Mr. Paulson to Mr. Geithner was like ''delicate surgery,'' adding, ''If you have to switch doctors, you don't want to bring in someone who hasn't even watched the surgery.''
 If there is a mystery about Mr. Geithner, industry executives said, it is his views on tax matters. Having spent his career in international economics before becoming a central banker, he has said almost nothing about his views on issues like capital gains taxes and dividends.
 Whatever substantive change Mr. Geithner makes could well reflect a personal style that is different from Mr. Paulson's. The current Treasury secretary for decades was a Wall Street deal maker, accustomed to short-term, trigger-quick decisions -- and reversals. Some say that accounts for the rescue program's constant evolution and its stop-and-start tendencies.
 ''Geithner has had a very different upbringing: a much more studious, and sober, professional training,'' said a former Treasury official and Wall Street executive who knows both men.
 Robert Gibbs, Mr. Obama's press secretary, said that the president-elect spoke with Mr. Bernanke on Monday morning and that the Fed chairman asked that Mr. Geithner remain at the New York Fed until he could be replaced, ''to ensure a smooth transition.'' Mr. Obama agreed, Mr. Gibbs added.
 Once Mr. Geithner steps down, it is expected that he will join Lawrence H. Summers, the incoming director of the National Economic Council, in drafting the two-year economic stimulus package of spending and tax cuts Mr. Obama has called for. In addition, he will have to organize his Treasury staff, prepare for his Senate confirmation hearing and continue to oversee the rescue effort.
 Though Mr. Geithner is expected to be easily confirmed by a Democratic-controlled Senate, he will face questions about the bailout effort at his hearing, before the Senate Finance Committee, given unhappiness in both parties about the way that program has been operated.
 As secretary, Mr. Geithner will have to juggle his oversight of the financial rescue program, the process of enacting and carrying out the economic stimulus package and the development of annual budgets.
 Given that, people who know both Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers see potential for tension between them, should Mr. Summers, given his proximity to the Oval Office and his aggressive style dominate the internal budget and tax debates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner on Monday in Chicago, where he was introduced by Barack Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); POLITICS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HENRY PAULSON (89%); BEN BERNANKE (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1066 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK COLUMN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Where Was Geithner In Turmoil?

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama unveiled on Monday an economic team with deep experience handling economic crises. But does the man at the center of this star-studded cast, Timothy F. Geithner, the nominee for Treasury secretary, have what is needed to take the nation in a new financial direction? 
 That is what a number of Wall Street chieftains are quietly asking, even after the stock market surged with relief after his nomination. 
 One reason Mr. Obama gave for nominating Mr. Geithner was his ''unparalleled understanding of our current economic crisis, in all of its depth, complexity and urgency.'' More important, he suggested, ''Tim will waste no time getting up to speed. He will start his first day on the job with a unique insight into the failures of today's markets -- and a clear vision of the steps we must take to revive them.'' 
 Mr. Geithner is clearly a 47-year-old wonder boy.
 A graduate of Dartmouth, he has a master's degree from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, did a turn with Henry Kissinger's consulting firm, a stint in the Clinton administration and, for the last five years, has been the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
 He will effectively lead the team Mr. Obama has chosen to mend a crippled economy. That's important because they won't just be debating economic theory -- they will be making deals Wall Street-style, negotiating billion-dollar bailouts and restructuring entire industries on behalf of their client, the taxpayers.
 But Mr. Geithner's involvement in several ultimately ill-fated efforts to buttress the American financial system is the very reason some Wall Street C.E.O.'s -- a number of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of piquing the man who regulates them -- question whether he's up to the challenge.
 ''We have only two things to say about Tim Geithner, who we do not know: A.I.G. and Lehman Brothers,'' said Christopher Whalen of Institutional Risk Analytics. ''Throw in the Bear Stearns/Maiden Lane fiasco for good measure,'' he said.
 ''All of these 'rescues' are a disaster for the taxpayer, for the financial markets and also for the Federal Reserve System as an organization. Geithner, in our view, deserves retirement, not promotion.'' 
 Ouch. 
 ''He was in the room at every turn of the crisis,'' said another executive who participated in several such confidential meetings with Mr. Geithner. ''You can look at that both ways.'' 
 While Henry M. Paulson Jr., the current Treasury secretary, has taken a drubbing for the changeable nature of the government's efforts to bolster the financial industry -- some of which clearly contradicted each other -- Mr. Geithner has managed, for the most part, to remain unscathed. He's been widely praised as a bright, articulate out-of-the box thinker who is a bailout expert, to the extent anyone can truly be an expert at fast-changing emergencies.
 Behind the scenes, Mr. Geithner was the point person for weeks of sleep-deprived Bailout Weekends. It was Mr. Geithner, not Mr. Paulson, for example, who put together the original rescue plan for the American International Group. 
 And, of course, Mr. Geithner also oversaw and regulated an entire industry whose decline has delivered a further blow to an already weakened American economy. Under his watch, some of the biggest institutions that were the responsibility of the New York Fed -- Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and most recently, Citigroup -- faltered. While he was one of the first regulators to smartly articulate the potential for an impending disaster, a number of observers question whether he went far enough to stop the calamity.
 Perhaps what has most people on Wall Street stirring is Mr. Geithner's role in the fall of Lehman. At the time of its bankruptcy, he, along with Mr. Paulson, appeared to be the most vocal in supporting the government's refusal to bail out the firm, according to people involved in various meetings. With hindsight, many in the financial industry blame a deepening of the global financial crisis on the government's decision to let Lehman crumble. 
 Perhaps not surprisingly, there have been moves afoot in recent weeks by some in the New York Fed and Obama team to put distance between Mr. Paulson and Mr. Geithner, whose salary was $398,200 last year and who will take a pay cut to $191,300 in his new role.
 These include the suggestion that Mr. Geithner was not in league with Mr. Paulson over Lehman; that Mr. Geithner pressed to save the firm from bankruptcy; that he was a lone voice on the subject and was overruled by Mr. Paulson and Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, on this issue.
 The validity of this new claim is hard to verify. The New York Fed declined to comment. 
 Many executives suggest it may be a bit of revisionist history. ''If that's true, he did a good job of hiding it,'' said one executive who spent the weekend at the New York Federal Reserve the weekend of Lehman's fall. 
 Mr. Paulson has only praise for Mr. Geithner. ''I have the highest regard for Tim -- his judgment and creativity have been critical to designing and implementing the necessary actions we've taken to protect and strengthen our financial system,'' he said.
 Let's hope he's right.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The DealBook column on Nov. 25, about the nomination of Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to be Treasury secretary, incompletely described the regulatory oversight of investment banks. While the New York Fed helps oversee activities of investment banks and has taken a more active role in the past year, legal regulatory authority over the banks rests with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy Geithner, Treasury secretary-designate, and Christina Romer, who will be the Council of Economic Advisers director.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HAYNES/REUTERS)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHRISTINA ROMER (59%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1067 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama's Economic Advisers

 BODY:
In introducing his economic team on Monday, President-elect Barack Obama said that he had chosen leaders who would offer sound judgment and fresh thinking. Was that an order? 
 In various high-level government positions, Timothy Geithner, Mr. Obama's choice for Treasury secretary, and Lawrence Summers, his choice for director of the National Economic Council, each have demonstrated a capacity for good judgment and good ideas. 
 Both served in the Clinton Treasury Department -- Mr. Summers as secretary and deputy secretary and Mr. Geithner as a top aide -- where they won high marks for helping manage the fallout of that era's crises, including the Mexican peso devaluation, the Asian financial meltdown, the Russian bond default and the collapse of the hedge fund Long Term Capital Management. 
 Both men, however, have played central roles in policies that helped provoke today's financial crisis. Mr. Geithner, currently the president of the Federal Reserve Bank in New York, also has helped shape the Bush administration's erratic and often inscrutable responses to the current financial meltdown, up to and including this past weekend's multibillion-dollar bailout of Citigroup. 
 Given that history, the question that most needs answering is not whether Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers are men of talent -- obviously they are -- but whether they have learned from their mistakes, and if so, what. 
 We are not asking for moral mea culpas. But unless they recognize their past mistakes, there is little hope that they can provide the sound judgment and leadership that the country needs to dig out of this desperate mess. 
 As treasury secretary in 2000, Mr. Summers championed the law that deregulated derivatives, the financial instruments -- a k a toxic assets -- that have spread the financial losses from reckless lending around the globe. He refused to heed the critics who warned of dangers to come. 
 That law, still on the books, reinforced the false belief that markets would self-regulate. And it gave the Bush administration cover to ignore the ever-spiraling risks posed by derivatives and inadequate supervision. 
 Mr. Summers now will advise a president who has promised to impose rational and essential regulations on chaotic financial markets. What has he learned? 
 At the New York Fed, Mr. Geithner has been one of the ringmasters of this year's serial bailouts. His involvement includes the as-yet-unexplained flip-flop in September when a read-my-lips, no-new-bailouts policy allowed Lehman Brothers to go under -- only to be followed less than two days later by the even costlier bailout of the American International Group and last weekend by the bailout of Citigroup. 
 It is still unclear what Mr. Geithner and other policy makers knew or did not know -- or what they thought they knew but didn't -- in arriving at those decisions, including who exactly is on the receiving end of the billions of dollars of taxpayer money now flooding the system. 
 Confidence in the system will not be restored as long as top officials fail or refuse to fully explain their actions. 
 Mr. Summers does not face Senate confirmation; Mr. Geithner does. The senators should press him for the answers that have been lacking. That is the only way to understand his philosophy and approach going forward. 
 Congress must play a more active role in crafting, analyzing and continuously monitoring all bailout efforts -- current and those to come. Unlike President Bush, who ceded far too much power to his treasury secretary, Mr. Obama must challenge and question his advisers' recommendations and decisions. He has chosen tough advisers. He must be even tougher than they are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEVALUATION (74%); TOXIC ASSETS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); BONDS (69%); DEREGULATION (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



1068 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2008

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: It's Hong Kong beach season! (For the cool-blooded)

BYLINE: JOYCE HOR-CHUNG LAU


HIGHLIGHT: The beaches are a great escape from the sweltering, sweaty city crowds in the summer months of June, July and August. But, at that time, the beaches are hot, hot, hot, and jam-packed. (If you have the sense of personal space a Hong Konger does, that won't bother you.) 

 BODY:
Keen readers of this blog will have noticed a similar headline on a beachy post in June.
Well, that was me thinking like a Hong Konger: The beaches are a great escape from the sweltering, sweaty city crowds in the summer months of June, July and August. But, at that time, the beaches are hot, hot, hot, and jam-packed. (If you have the sense of personal space a Hong Konger does, that won't bother you.)
The other part of me -- the part that grew up in New England and Canada -- is going to revise that advice and say that is the best time to do outdoorsy stuff in Hong Kong. (A British newspaper approached me in July to do a mountain-climbing article, and I was like, "Why not wait several months?" My inbox is just filling up with BBQ and hiking invites now.)
In the late fall, November heading into December, Hong Kong has highs of 25C and lows of 15C. (About 60-80 F). To many Hong Kongers, this is freezing. To me, it's T-shirt and cardi weather -- a summer evening in Montreal or an "Indian summer" delaying the autumnal turning of leaves in Connecticut.
Even if you're stuck in the city, now is the best time to be here. The skies are as blue and clear as they're going to get. It's the best time of year to view that famous neon skyline from across the harbor -- night or day. It's less rainy and humid than the spring, less hot and stormy (typhoon-y) than the summer, but not as freezing as the post-Chinese New Year cold snap. (NB: Most homes and hotels here have no central heating.)
If you have the internal thermometer of a Northerner, you could enjoy walking along the beach without the hassle of crowds. If you were, say, a crazy Canadian, you might even take a dip. You could experience them the way they were a few generations ago, when the population was a fraction of the size, and the suburbs hadn't spread into the rural areas.
The obvious differences between people -- the ones travel writers are always going about -- are language, culture, food, religion, etc. But how about varying views towards the weather? Has anyone else noticed that gap? Any Indians in flowing, ankle-length robes out there laughing at the red-faced, dehydrated backpackers in their tank tops? Any Swedes out there who show up in a T-shirt and shorts in Delhi, while everyone else is in sweaters and scarves?
Even I am amused by the apparent lack of tolerance Hong Kongers have for the slightest draft.
Walking into the office after lunch on a warm, sunny afternoon, I came across the door lady, who exclaimed (very Chinese-auntie-like) that I should not go out in such skimpy clothes. (I was wearing a top and skirt).
I took her hand, and it was ice-cold, even though she was wearing a suit and jacket, and indoors.
"What's wrong with you?" I asked.
"Wow. Your hand is so warm," she said back. "I don't know. I don't even drink cold things."
Upstairs in the office, the Westerners were in shirt-sleeves. But the Chinese office manager was wearing one of her three coats (one leather, one suede, one canvas) and the Hong Konger assistant was wearing one of those padded, duvet-like coats with a fur-trimmed hood. I've worn less while riding through the English countryside through "freezing fog" (a whole new weather phenomenon I discovered in the U.K.)
I went over to investigate. No, the assistant wasn't trying for some hip-hop styling. If it dips below 20 degrees C, or 70 degrees F, she feels like she's living in the tundra.
****
I regularly commute up to Lowu on the Hong Kong / Mainland border. Judging by the outfits, you'd think it was the train to Siberia, not Shenzhen.
I stand out in that crowd A) because I am going horseback riding instead of swarming to the fake/cheap goods mecca in the giant series of malls just across the border and B) I am wearing not a down parka, but a T-shirt (also jodhpurs).
Random travel tip: If crowds and noise bother you, spend the extra money to travel first-class on this line. Economy costs about H.K. $35 (about U.S. $4) while first-class costs HK $70 (about U.S. $9). The last time I rode cattle class, I watched as nobody would give up their seat for a very old, frail couple, even after they asked. (I was standing.) So much for traditional Chinese respect for the elderly. Then, a drunk man with no teeth tried chatting me up by asking if I was a jockey. Trust me. During rush hour, five extra bucks is worth it for the 45-minute journey from Tsim Sha Tsui East to Lowu.
[An addendum: Immediately after posting this, I got a complaint from a reader saying I was irresponsibly misleading people about the weather. Hong Kong Observatory is predicting "cold and very dry weather" in the coming days. So beware! It's going to be 13-19 C,or 55-66 F, for TWO whole days before getting warm again. I was reprimanded twice in one hour for wearing nothing with a long-sleeved shirt -- once by my taxi driver, once by the door-lady who commanded that I run home, take a hot bath and go to bed before catching cold. BTW, "very dry" means the relative humidity is dropping below 40%. We're practically in the Sahara! ]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); TYPHOONS (74%); HIKING (74%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (69%); WRITERS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); RELIGION (50%) Travel and Vacations; Hong Kong; Globespotters

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%); DELHI, INDIA (55%) NORTHEAST USA (72%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (72%); CANADA (72%); INDIA (55%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012



1069 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Hospitals Plan Angers Preservationists

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
Local and federal officials on Tuesday announced plans for a 70-acre medical campus in the heart of New Orleans to replace two hospitals damaged during Hurricane Katrina, a $2 billion investment that supporters say will create thousands of jobs and begin to rebuild the city's shattered health care system.
 One of the hospitals, to be built by Louisiana State University, would replace the city's landmark Charity Hospital, a lifeline for generations of the city's poor, which has been vacant since the storm damaged its lower floors. The other would replace the vacant Department of Veterans Affairs hospital, also severely damaged by the flooding. The old hospitals and adjacent buildings will be abandoned under the plan, which officials here described as the foundation for a new economy for New Orleans, and the largest investment in the area since Katrina. 
 But the plan, brewing for months, has drawn strong criticism from preservationists and neighborhood activists because it will lead to the destruction of dozens of old houses and buildings in the Mid-City National Register Historic District. They had urged the Veterans Affairs Department and the state to consider alternative locations. 
 ''In selecting these sites, the V.A. and L.S.U. have made a serious error,'' said Richard Moe, president of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, in a statement after the announcement here. ''They chose the alternatives that will not only be the most time-consuming, costly, and complex, to implement, but will needlessly destroy a historic neighborhood where residents are struggling to rebuild their community in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.''
 Mr. Moe noted that the state had not secured the money for the L.S.U. teaching hospital that would replace Charity.
 Officials at Tuesday's news conference said steps would be taken to mitigate the loss, including moving some houses in the way of the proposed development. But they suggested the city's higher priority was to begin rebuilding the economy with a high-impact project.
 ''Today we are not thinking small, we are thinking right,'' said Mayor C. Ray Nagin. ''We're talking about something spectacular. This is an incredible, incredible announcement where we are re-establishing first-class medical care for this city.''
 James P. McNamara, who heads the Greater New Orleans Biosciences Economic Development District, said the campus was the most important project in the city, and would create jobs with an average salary of $87,000.
 ''For us, that is enormous,'' he said. That some will lose their homes as a result, he added, is ''just the reality of life.'' 
 The Veterans Affairs hospital will house about 200 beds and should be open by 2013, officials said. The L.S.U. teaching hospital is planned for 424 beds but does not have a target date yet. State officials are still locked in a dispute with the Federal Emergency Management Agency over how much Washington will pay for Charity's damage, and that money will be used to help pay for the new teaching hospital.
 The long shadow of this city's recent natural disaster has redrawn the odds on even the most unassuming districts, promising obliteration for some, like this composite of ghostly wrecks and painted shotgun-house gems a single room wide, adjacent to downtown. 
 Even acknowledging that Katrina upended everything in New Orleans, many residents are mystified by this logic, in a city with vast stretches of underused, unused and downright derelict property. New Orleans has an ample supply of vacant office buildings, vacant hospitals, vacant storefronts and vacant lots, many conveniently located downtown. 
 ''It's a terrible idea,'' said Wallace Thurman, who lives on Palmyra Street in the heart of the new campus, in a handsome Arts-and-Crafts-style house that was partly underwater after the storm. ''I was born in my house, and I'm going to lose it to put up a hospital?'' He spent some $50,000 to get his house back in shape after Katrina, he said, ''and they're going to tell me I can't live here?'' 
 So why get rid of a neighborhood that is functioning, in its teetering New Orleans way, when so much of the city lies empty and unused? Many residents urged the state to rebuild Charity Hospital rather than build a new one, and said the veterans hospital could go on the site of the ruined Lindy Boggs Medical Center, more than a dozen blocks away.
 City and federal officials say the answer lies in the need to build the two hospitals next to each other, allowing them to save money and be more efficient by sharing some medical and parking services, among other savings. Combined, the new medical center will be a huge shot in the arm for downtown New Orleans, they say, restoring thousands of health care and related jobs that were lost after Katrina. 
 ''We're talking about a total redefinition of the future,'' said Edward J. Blakely, executive director of the city's Office of Recovery and Development Administration. He added, ''I'm the last one that wants to destroy a neighborhood.''
 Nonetheless, that is what will happen if the plan goes forward as announced Tuesday, under the government's own study: ''existing residential, commercial, and other structures on these properties would be removed.''
 Louisiana officials said they considered reusing Charity, but decided the historic Art Deco structure did not have enough space for future growth. The state will probably offer tax incentives to potential buyers of the building.
 The National Trust for Historic Preservation estimates there are some 165 historic structures that will go down if the hospitals are built, a compendium of New Orleans architecture, with shotgun houses predominating. Though the government study says the ''majority'' of the area is vacant, or parking lots, the trust's New Orleans field director, Walter Gallas, said at a hearing in June: ''To deny the significance of such a massive level of neighborhood destruction would be inconceivable.''
 Gayle Ruth, an office manager who lives in a handsome white-pillar shotgun home with long green shutters on South Tonti Street, in the target zone, said people in the neighborhood had returned at the city's urging. 
 ''A lot of money has been sunk into these properties,'' she said. ''I didn't put all this money into it thinking it would be torn down.''
 The government will compensate homeowners for their properties, and about $800,000 has been allocated to move one-story homes considered to have exceptional architectural importance. But Mr. Gallas said the money was structured in a way that would help only about 20 homeowners.
 The shaky economy here, buffeted by Hurricanes Katrina and Gustav, is not on the preservationists' side, however. The New Orleans area is projected to have fewer jobs in 2010 than it had in 1980, said Loren C. Scott, emeritus professor of economics at L.S.U. Without a handful of major construction projects under way, ''you'd really be in a pickle,'' Mr. Scott said. ''There's no announcements,'' he noted. ''They desperately need something like that to occur,'' he said of the hospital project. 
 In the neighborhood, there remains an attachment to the old if scruffy ways with dreams of a better future, a familiar New Orleans dichotomy. Some said they would not mind selling, if only they could be sure the promises would come true, this time. ''To me, New Orleans is dead or dying,'' said Frank Coco, a high school science teacher. ''I don't see anything happening right now to give me hope for New Orleans. If this would revive it, I'd be thrilled.'' 
 But at the Outerbanks bar, a third-generation carpenter, Ricky Stephens, could already imagine the backhoes tearing into the delicate architectural details -- spindles, lacy wood, pillars, posts and brackets, all cypress wood, much of it handmade. 
 ''This is a historic neighborhood,'' Mr. Stephens said. ''You're just going to tear it down like it's nothing.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janet Treaudo and others protested plans to build a veterans hospital instead of reopening Charity Hospital, a lifeline for the poor.
Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans, left, on Tuesday greeted Gordon H. Mansfield, deputy secretary of veterans affairs.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ella Ware at her Lower Mid-City home. The hospital plan will destroy buildings in a National Register Historic District.
 Wallace Thurman, who lives on Palmyra Street, said, ''I was born in my house, and I'm going to lose it to put up a hospital?'' MAP: Building in a Historic District: Plans to build two hospitals in downtown New Orleans would require dismantling more than 100 historic homes and businesses in an area that has struggled to recover from Hurricane Katrina. Map details area of Planned Veterans Affairs hospital. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); HISTORY (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (67%)

COMPANY: MID-CITY NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1070 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2569 words

PERSON: Gerald Schoenfeld 

HEADLINE: He Relit Broadway: Gerald Schoenfeld Dies at 84

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER; This obituary includes reporting by Patricia Cohen, Mervyn Rothstein and Mel Gussow.

 BODY:
People didn't actually call him Mr. Broadway. But they could have.
 Gerald Schoenfeld, the Runyonesque figure who as chairman of the powerful Shubert Organization left an indelible stamp on American culture, bringing dozens of hit shows to Broadway -- among them ''A Chorus Line,'' ''Cats'' and ''The Phantom of the Opera'' -- and reinvigorating the commercial theater, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.
 The cause was a heart attack, said Sam Rudy, a spokesman for the Shubert Organization. 
 For more than 35 years, through times of theatrical boom and theatrical bust, from the era when Broadway shared its real estate with prostitutes, derelicts and sex shops through the years of Times Square renewal and an explosion of tourists and bright lights, Mr. Schoenfeld was arguably the most influential figure in the theater business. 
 As head of both the Shubert Organization and the nonprofit Shubert Foundation -- a role he shared for 24 years with Bernard B. Jacobs, who died in 1996 -- Mr. Schoenfeld ran the largest theater-owning enterprise in the United States, one that dates to the turn of the 20th century, with combativeness and charm. 
 The Shubert Organization owns and operates 17 Broadway theaters and an Off Broadway theater as well as the Shubert Theater in Boston and the Forrest Theater in Philadelphia. It manages the National Theater in Washington. The foundation, whose value is estimated at more than $300 million, helps support nonprofit theaters and dance companies across the country. (In an unusual arrangement, the foundation actually controls the Shubert Organization.)
 Mr. Schoenfeld and Mr. Jacobs, whose title was president, took over the Shubert Organization at a time when both it and Broadway were in a severe downturn, and they were largely credited with saving both. They turned their theater concern into a modern and financially potent enterprise, largely through their acquisition of three shows that became major hits -- ''Pippin,'' ''Equus'' and, above all, ''A Chorus Line,'' the 1975 Tony Award and Pulitzer Prize-winning musical. 
 ''A Chorus Line,'' created by Michael Bennett and initially produced by the New York Shakespeare Festival, ran for 15 years and was for much of the 1980s and '90s the longest-running show in Broadway history. The three shows together did much to rescue New York theater. 
 Indeed, Mr. Schoenfeld believed that a great show was the best advertisement for Broadway as a whole, and that people who had a good time at the theater once were likely to return. It was a point of view he espoused as late as last week, when he attended the opening of ''Dividing the Estate,'' Horton Foote's new play at the Booth Theater, produced by Lincoln Center Theater, which is also responsible for the hit revival of ''South Pacific.'' The artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater, Andre Bishop, greeted Mr. Schoenfeld before the play began. ''He put his arm around me,'' Mr. Bishop said in an interview Tuesday. ''He said: 'My boy, do you know what Lincoln Center Theater did when it put on 'South Pacific'? By producing that show you lifted up all the boats.' '' 
 Becoming Producers
 As they rebuilt the business in the 1970s, Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld expanded their role in individual productions as few theater owners had before them. They became investors in many of the plays and musicals they presented, and produced or co-produced many of them as well.
 Mr. Schoenfeld and Mr. Jacobs -- and later Mr. Schoenfeld by himself -- would decide what shows would play their theaters, when those shows would open and when they would close. They would often be involved in casting, in helping to lure stars to Broadway, in deciding the kind of works that would be presented.
 Just about everything that happened in their theaters, and thus throughout Broadway, was influenced by the taste and judgment of the two men, who from their plush, baronial offices side by side in Shubert Alley, above the Shubert Theater and behind a buzzer-activated locked door, created their own distinctive means of sharing power. 
 The shows they were credited with producing or co-producing included the musicals ''Cats,'' ''Godspell,'' ''Ain't Misbehavin','' ''Dreamgirls,'' ''Dancin' '' and ''Sunday in the Park With George,'' as well as the non-musical plays ''The Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby,'' ''Glengarry Glen Ross,'' ''The Heidi Chronicles,'' ''The Gin Game'' and ''Amadeus.''
 They had some notable failures, too: forgettable shows like ''Chess,'' ''Zoot Suit'' and ''Devour the Snow.'' But their successes are far easier to recall, and beyond them, many of the biggest Broadway hits of all time found their way into Shubert Theaters, even when the Shuberts themselves were not credited with involvement in the production: ''Les Miserables,'' ''Mamma Mia!'' and, among others, the show that eclipsed ''Cats'' as the longest-running Broadway show of all time, ''Phantom.'' 
 The two men were known as ''the Shuberts,'' though they were not related to the three Shubert brothers who founded the theater empire early in the 20th century. More familiarly, they were called simply ''Bernie and Gerry.'' Mr. Schoenfeld generally focused on maintaining the theaters, acquiring new properties and acting as the organization's public spokesman, while Mr. Jacobs booked the theaters, helped develop new plays and musicals and marketed the current ones -- though after Mr. Jacobs's death, Mr. Schoenfeld assumed some of his partner's duties.
 Mr. Schoenfeld had the look of a cherub, with a round belly, a gleaming bald pate and an easy surface joviality. He could be amusing and annoying, entertaining and belligerent, a New York character and a self-caricature. An expansive storyteller with a definite penchant to be the foremost authority in the room, he had an actor's narcissism without an actor's talent. He could be demonstrative and, some would say -- and some did -- pompous. And he was not above a little self-glorification, as when he acceded, perhaps silently, perhaps not, to the wishes of his fellow Shubert Organization board members to have two theaters, the Plymouth and the Royale, respectively, renamed for himself and Mr. Jacobs.
 Far more gregarious than his partner, Mr. Schoenfeld was the public face of Shubert. After arriving for opening-night performances in his theaters and before taking his seat on the center aisle, between Rows 5 and 8, he would walk up and down, seeing who had arrived, shaking hands, embracing and making easy conversation, often telling those he would meet to call him in the morning to discuss some important theater business.
 Steel Under the Joviality
 But the friendly and relaxed voice could, if necessary, instantly turn hard and demanding. As a leader in the Broadway League (formerly the League of Broadway Theaters and Producers), he frequently knocked heads with theater union leaders during contract negotiations. He was frequently cited by producers as someone who would bleed individual shows with theater-operating costs. And he was a fierce competitor with other theater owners, notably the Nederlander Organization and Jujamcyn Theaters, in trying to land potentially profit-turning shows. A zeal for profits was cited by some producers who lamented what they called Mr. Schoenfeld's middle-brow taste and who said that the long-running British musicals he parked in prime theatrical space hindered the development of a more innovative American theater. 
 His feuds were many, if not lingering. In the early 1980s, when he supported the demolition of two theaters to make room for a new hotel that he felt would enliven Times Square and ultimately help the theater, he was confronted by a young playwright, David Mamet.
 ''You call yourself a producer,'' Mr. Mamet said. ''But you don't know how to create anything; all you know how to do is destroy.'' 
 Mr. Schoenfeld then called Mr. Mamet a lousy playwright, and the two men walked off in opposite directions, steaming.
 But that didn't stop Mr. Schoenfeld from booking Mr. Mamet's plays, eight productions of which have appeared in Shubert Theaters since 1984. 
 Mr. Schoenfeld had little or no tolerance for those who would disparage theater or even simply fail to praise it. But his advocacy for the theater in general was often a thin mask for his guardianship of Shubert interests; he was not shy about calling this newspaper, its writers, its editors or even its publisher, to complain about a perceived anti-theater or anti-Shubert bias in its pages. 
 And in spite of the Shubert Foundation's support of the nonprofit theater, Mr. Schoenfeld often bemoaned having to compete for Broadway audiences and Tony Awards with the Roundabout Theater, Lincoln Center Theater and Manhattan Theater Club, noncommercial theaters with tax exemptions and other financial advantages.
 ''There's no profit like not-for-profit,'' he said time and again. 
 Rocco Landesman, president of the rival Jujamcyn Theaters, said of Mr. Schoenfeld on Tuesday, ''God knows he could be exasperating, but he was my best friend in the business.''
 When Mr. Schoenfeld assumed the chairmanship, Mr. Landesman said, ''the Shubert Organization was in a state of disarray, the commercial theater was in jeopardy, and what Gerry did, along with Bernie Jacobs, was put it on a sound business footing.'' 
 ''He really saved commercial theater,'' Mr. Landesman added. ''The Broadway theater as we now know it is largely the achievement of Gerry Schoenfeld.'' 
 Gerald Schoenfeld was born in New York City on Sept. 22, 1924. His father manufactured long-haired fur coats. Mr. Schoenfeld attended local schools -- including P.S. 87 on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, where he once won an oratory contest for reciting the Gettysburg Address -- and DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx. 
 He graduated from the University of Illinois, served in the Army in World War II, and went on to earn a law degree from New York University, afterward taking a job with a law firm that paid $40 a week. One of its clients was the Shubert Organization.
 ''Over a period of about seven years, people in the law firm grew older, one died, another went off on his own and I ended up being the only one left,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said in an interview with The Washington Post. ''So J. J. Shubert asked me, as he put it, if I wanted to 'take care of our affairs.' I said, 'Yes.' I was 32.''
 A Century of Power
 Since the turn of the century, the Shubert brothers -- Sam, Lee and J. J. -- had been a dominant force in the American theater. By 1914, their empire of 350 theaters stretched from New York to California. In 1950, the federal government brought an antitrust suit against the organization, and in 1956 the Shuberts were forced to sell part of their holdings and relinquish their role in theatrical booking. 
 In 1957, Mr. Schoenfeld became the company's primary lawyer. The next year, J. J. Shubert suggested that Mr. Schoenfeld hire another lawyer to help him. Mr. Schoenfeld brought in Mr. Jacobs, a high school friend of Mr. Schoenfeld's older brother. 
 Mr. Shubert taught both men everything he knew about the theater business. ''You sat at either side of J. J.'s desk, from the minute he arrived to the minute he left, seven days a week,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said. ''Everything that came over his desk, we had to pass on. As a result, we had total immersion in every aspect of the business.''
 After J. J. Shubert died in 1963, his will turned over the bulk of his estate, including the theaters, to the Shubert Foundation, which until then had been a small and little-known arm of the theater company. During a power struggle among irreconcilable directors, Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld managed to move to the top of the integrated enterprise in 1972, deposing a surviving grand-nephew to take over the organization, though in doing so they took on another partner, Irving Goldman, a liaison that brought a taint to the company.
 Mr. Goldman briefly became New York City's commissioner of cultural affairs, but he had been affiliated with a paint company that supplied Shubert theaters and many theaters supported by the Shubert Foundation. In 1974, the Shuberts were investigated by the state attorney general, Louis J. Lefkowitz, for, among other things, pulling Shubert grant money from organizations that had discontinued contracts with Mr. Goldman's paint company.
 Mr. Lefkowitz also indicted Mr. Goldman for making $1 million in payments to a painting contractor and accepting the return of half the money as a kickback. Mr. Goldman, who was eventually indicted three times on various corruption charges -- though never convicted -- was ousted from the Shubert Organization in 1975. 
 The early days of Mr. Schoenfeld's and Mr. Jacobs's tenure was not a good time for the company or for Broadway. The Shubert Organization was $2 million in the red, and half its theaters were empty. As new theatrical entrepreneurs and real estate owners, they began investing money in plays and acting as producers. By 1974, they felt that the Shubert empire was back on track. That season in Shubert houses included ''Equus,'' ''Pippin,'' ''Grease'' and ''Sherlock Holmes.'' The next year, there was ''A Chorus Line,'' which put the operation on solid footing.
 An Economic Engine
 Mr. Schoenfeld argued tirelessly that the theater was an economic engine for the city and deserved greater help from City Hall. He was instrumental in transforming Times Square from the neighborhood of pornography shops and massage parlors it had become in the 1970s to the family-oriented entertainment district it is today. In 1977, he got the casts of 25 Broadway shows, trade unions, neighborhood residents and members of the clergy to stage a three-day rally in Times Square to ''stamp out smut.''
 Also in the 1970s, he called the mayor's office to complain about garbage that had been piling up on theater district streets from Fridays to Mondays because street cleaning crews did not work over the weekends. The city told him that the extra pickups would cost about $8,000 a week. He responded that Broadway theaters generated more than 10 times that amount in taxes -- and the city sent the crews. 
 Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld also introduced computerized ticket sales to an industry that had resisted modernization, and linked the box offices to outlets in other cities. The Shubert Organization owns and operates Tele-Charge. Just as Mr. Jacobs's death did, Mr. Schoenfeld's leaves in doubt who will lead the organization into the next generation. It is now in the hands of the current president, Philip J. Smith, who is in his 70s.
 Both Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld benefited greatly from a highly unusual and little-known tax ruling in 1979 that gave the Foundation an exemption to federal tax laws that declare that private charities generally cannot own a controlling stake in a profit-making business. Mr. Schoenfeld is survived by his wife of 58 years, Pat; a brother, Irving; a daughter, Carrie Schoenfeld-Guglielmi; and two grandchildren.
 ''His whole life was working in the theater,'' the veteranproducer Emanuel Azenberg said yesterday, summing up the feelings of many who knew and worked with Mr. Schoenfeld. ''I didn't agree with him on any number of things, but I never, ever questioned his commitment. I'll miss him. I'll miss arguing with him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gerald Schoenfeld has a place of honor on a wall at Sardi's.
Gerald Schoenfeld, left, and his Shubert partner, Bernard B. Jacobs, in their offices in 1987.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HOGAN CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Schoenfeld speaking at the 2007 Tony Awards.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (84%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); DANCE (71%); FESTIVALS (64%); PROSTITUTION (54%)

MICHAEL L BENNETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Theater

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1071 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Slight Rise in Consumer Confidence

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Consumer confidence rose in November amid receding gas prices, but Americans' views on the economy remained the gloomiest in decades as they grappled with layoffs, slumping home prices and dwindling retirement funds.
 The government reported Tuesday that the decline in the economy this summer was worse than first thought as American consumers throttled back their spending by the most in 28 years.
 The Conference Board said Tuesday that its Consumer Confidence Index was 44.9, up from a revised 38.8 in October. Last month's reading was the lowest since the research group started tracking the index in 1967. 
 Economists surveyed by ThomsonReuters expected the November reading to slip to 37.9. Still, the November figure is about half of what it was a year ago, and hovers around levels not seen since December 1974, when the index was 43.2.
 The Present Situation Index declined to 42.2, from 43.5 last month. The Expectations Index, which is consumers' assessment of the economy over the next six months, increased to 46.7, from 35.7 in October.
 ''The persistent declines in the Present Situation Index suggest that the economy has weakened further in the final months of this year,'' Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said in a statement. ''But despite the improvement in the Expectations Index this month, consumers remain extremely pessimistic and the possibility that economic growth will improve in the first half of 2009 remains highly unlikely.''
 Wall Street closely monitors sentiment as consumer spending represents about two-thirds of all economic activity.
 Shoppers' pessimistic moods are a big challenge for the nation's stores, which are preparing for the official start of the holiday shopping season. The season already was expected to be the weakest in decades, but the spending outlook has darkened further since September as consumers have slammed on the brakes while grappling with the fallout from the escalating financial crisis. That includes rising layoffs across all sectors of the economy, and rapidly declining household wealth.
 Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wachovia, predicted that total retail sales for the combined November-December period will drop by 0.5 percent, the first decline since the 1982 holiday shopping season, when consumers were also were dealing with huge layoffs.
 In its report, the Commerce Department said Tuesday that the updated reading on the economy's performance showed gross domestic product shrank at a 0.5 percent annual rate in the July-September quarter.
 That was weaker than the 0.3 percent rate of decline first estimated a month ago, and was the worst showing since the economy contracted at a 1.4 percent pace in the third quarter of 2001, when the nation was suffering through its last recession.
 Gross domestic product measures the value of all goods and services produced within the United States and is considered the best barometer of the country's economic fitness.
 The new reading on G.D.P. underscores just how quickly the economy deteriorated as housing, credit and financial crises intensified. The economy logged growth of 2.8 percent in the second quarter.
 The new, lower third-quarter reading matched economists' forecasts. The downgrade from the initial estimate mostly reflected an even sharper cutback in spending by consumers and less brisk sales growth of exports.
 American consumers -- the lifeblood of the economy -- slashed spending in the third quarter at a 3.7 percent pace. That was deeper than the 3.1 percent cut initially reported and was the biggest reduction since the second quarter of 1980, when the country was in the grip of recession.
 Consumers are hunkering down amid job losses, tanking investment portfolios and sinking home values, which are making them nervous about spending.
 Underscoring the strain faced by consumers, the report showed that Americans' disposable income fell at an annual rate of 9.2 percent in the third quarter, the largest quarterly drop on records dating back to 1947. The government's initial estimate had showed a record 8.7 percent decline in disposable income for the quarter.
 Sales of exports grew at a 3.4 percent pace in the third quarter. That was lower than a 5.9 percent growth rate initially estimated and was a sharp slowdown from the second quarter's blistering 12.3 percent growth rate. The deceleration reflects less demand from overseas buyers, who are coping with their own economic problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDEX FUNDS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); RETAIL SALES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1072 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Preserving Open Space

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Resounding Vote for Open Space'' (editorial, Nov. 19):
 That Republicans and Democrats across the country strongly supported parks and open space preservation is certainly worthy of applause. 
 Spending public money on green space is an investment that has long-term financial returns even Wall Street would envy. 
 For example, reducing flood damage by preserving and rebuilding wetlands and using green space and porous surfaces to absorb seasonal high water events can save large public and insurance expenditures in repairs. 
 The new Congress and president have a number of difficult tasks ahead. But continuing the voters' trend to be more supportive of open space and greenery might be among the easier tasks they have to tackle. 
 One piece of legislation that is supported by the American Society of Landscape Architects is H.R. 5867, the Energy Conservation Through Trees Act of 2008, introduced by Representative Doris Matsui of California. It would improve air quality and lower the need for energy consumption through a grant program using targeted residential tree planting to reduce energy usage. 
 We have high hopes that the new administration will take action to preserve and enhance green infrastructure.
 Susannah Drake President, New York Chapter American Society of Landscape Architects New York, Nov. 21, 2008
 To the Editor:
 You correctly conclude that there is great support among Americans for protecting open space, and urge Congress to pass a package of bills that would, in part, establish millions of acres of designated wilderness. Regrettably, however, the public lands bill includes a provision that would pave the way for a taxpayer-financed $56 million ''road to nowhere'' through the heart of Izembek National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.
 The refuge is an internationally recognized wilderness that brown bears, caribou and more than half a million migratory birds call home.
 The public lands package should be passed, but not at the expense of a premier wildlife refuge and wilderness area. To allow this to happen cheapens any wilderness gains, and opens the door to removing wilderness protections elsewhere.
 Congress should strip the Izembek road and pass a bill that Americans can be proud of.
 Evan Hirsche President National Wildlife Refuge Association Washington, Nov. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial correctly notes that despite our nation's economic problems, voters delivered. But that's not surprising: for more than a decade, we've worked with hundreds of communities across the country, and we've found that all of them, whether conservative or progressive, Democratic or Republican, are consistently willing to vote with their wallets to preserve the environment. 
 We agree with your viewpoint that the local results mean that with a new administration and a new Congress going to Washington, now is the time to provide $900 million to fully finance the Land and Water Conservation Fund. That program, as you note, is the premier federal program for buying open space.
 Yes, this is a tough economic climate. But local and state governments know that when voters are asked, they say yes. Now is the time for the federal government to rejoin that effort.
 Will Rogers President, The Trust for Public Land San Francisco, Nov. 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MAMMALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); TRENDS (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); WETLANDS (72%); BIRDS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); AIR QUALITY (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS (83%)

PERSON: DORIS O MATSUI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1073 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Should We Bail Out Detroit?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Sync, and Swim Together,'' by Daniel Kahneman and Andrew M. Rosenfield (Op-Ed, Nov. 25):
 The notion that Detroit automakers should simultaneously declare bankruptcy may be the single worst policy idea to address the crisis to date.
 First, Detroit can make it. The car companies have introduced promising new fuel-efficient models, and U.A.W. workers outproduce their international rivals in eight out of nine categories in which their United States plants compete. 
 Second, the disruption of even a planned bankruptcy would sink auto suppliers, devastate communities and push states like Michigan over the edge. It would cost tens of billions of dollars in lost tax revenue and social services just to clean up the wreckage.
 Instead, $25 billion in loan guarantees allows automakers to bridge the economic rapids.
 The most important model Detroit produced in the 20th century was the middle class for many millions of Americans. We need to ensure that that model drives into the 21st century, not off an economic cliff.
 Harley Shaiken Berkeley, Calif., Nov. 25, 2008
 The writer is a labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley.
 To the Editor:
 The basic premise that consumers will be lulled given a ''simultaneous bankruptcy filing'' by the three major carmakers is misguided. There appears no reason the stigma and uncertainty created by individual filings would not be replicated by a joint filing.
 The best strategy to keep the automakers liquid and the dealerships in business is to go forward with a comprehensive bailout package, including money to provide low-interest loans to consumers. These loans would make the American carmakers more competitive, empower the consumer and shore up cash flow to dealerships.
 Harvey Stark Washington, Nov. 25, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Filing for bankruptcy is not the answer for General Motors, Chrysler and Ford. Fundamentally, bankruptcy allows companies to refinance and reorganize to meet their financial obligations. Raising new capital is critical for refinancing and restructuring old debt, which Daniel Kahneman and Andrew M. Rosenfield do not mention.
 In the current economic climate, regardless of whether or not the Big Three file for bankruptcy, raising new capital, especially on the scale necessary, is almost impossible without the help of the government. The government needs to step in and buttress consumer confidence in G.M., Chrysler and Ford by providing an influx of capital that will ensure the viability of these companies in the future.
 Barnaby Stoker Kendall Ithaca, N.Y., Nov. 25, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''For Detroit, Chapter 11 Would Be the Final Chapter'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 24): Spencer Abraham, like all who have spoken in support of the auto industry, talks as if Chapter 11 would kill the American auto industry. When will he and others present a more realistic scenario?
 A Chapter 11 filing may be the middle ground between the government-financed ''trust me,'' pain-free, business-as-usual path Detroit prefers and its straw man, the draconian forecast of Chapter 7 with its accompanying specter of a near-term liquidation of the entire American auto industry. It may also be the only way the automakers can revise their contracts to shrink their businesses to the existing market.
 General Motors, for one, has too many models, too many plants, too many employees and too many dealers to support the 20 percent share it has whittled itself down to over 30 years.
 Its leaders must demonstrate a willingness to make what's good for the United States taxpayer good for G.M. 
 Roy Fuchs Trumbull, Conn., Nov. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Spencer Abraham asserts that there is an inherent flaw comparing the airline industry with the automotive industry based on the fact that buying a car is significantly more expensive than a plane ticket. I disagree with this premise. 
 A person risks his life and the lives of his loved ones when flying on an airline that is bankrupt, yet those airlines continue to fly with paying customers. I am not a former senator from Michigan or a former energy secretary, but as a consumer who has flown on airlines that have filed for bankruptcy to get out from under crippling labor contracts, I can assure you that I would buy a car from a similar company, as it seems the last hope for our great American carmakers to shed their noncompetitive labor costs. 
 Laurel Harvey Princeton, N.J., Nov. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Spencer Abraham argues that bankruptcy for General Motors would be the end of the auto industry because ''almost every carmaker that has ever gone bankrupt has disappeared.''
 Those carmakers disappeared, but it was not the end of the auto industry. 
 Perhaps G.M.'s liquidation would be good for America and for the surviving carmakers. The survivors could buy G.M.'s profitable units, and the others could be liquidated and could learn from G.M.'s mistakes. G.M.'s shareholders (myself included) would take a loss, but we have taken some past rewards and know that along with rewards comes risk.
 Marshall Foreman San Diego, Nov. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 During the 1930s the United States government was unable to lift the country out of the Depression. The government simply did not spend enough on building products. That is until World War II changed everything, and huge orders for ''stuff'' were placed. 
 Much of that stuff wound up destroyed. But the building of products got the country out of the Depression. We ought to consider doing much the same now with the auto industry.
 Instead of a loan, why not place an order. Let's order a few hundred thousand cars, built to a specification that includes things like mileage, drivability, amenities, comfort and so on. Then, when veterans come home from Iraq, they get a car; when local police need vehicles, they get a vehicle. 
 The industry must actually produce a product we can pay 50 percent up front for and get a product of value, and the industry gets economy of scale in a product that it can actually sell broadly. 
 If the management doesn't like the idea of building a product, put in management that actually loves building cars. If they like it, then they are the right guys to make it happen. 
 Gary Hillman Livingston, N.J., Nov. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Given its history and its failure to learn from it, Detroit's possible bankruptcy could be our country's first big step toward energy independence.
 Peter Holschuh Guilford, Conn., Nov. 25, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1074 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Unveils New Programs to Ease Credit

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Edmund L. Andrews, Jeff Zeleny and David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve and the Treasury announced $800 billion in new lending programs on Tuesday, sending a message that they will print as much money as needed to revive the crippled banking system. 
 The two new efforts -- one mainly to finance loans for consumers, and an even bigger one to push down home mortgage rates -- marked the latest but hardly the last of the federal government's efforts to shoulder the losses that began with subprime mortgages and have spread throughout the economy.
 All told, the government has assumed at least $7 trillion in direct and indirect financial obligations in the form of Wall Street bailouts, emergency lending and government guarantees on bank deposits, inter-bank loans and home mortgages.
 The new actions on Tuesday represented two big milestones in the government's expansion into private markets. 
 It was the first time that the Fed and the Treasury have stepped into finance consumer debt, from car loans and student loans to small business loans. The $200 billion program comes close to being a government bank, highlighting the extent to which Washington has been obliged to step in for the paralyzed banking system.
 But the programs also represented a new level of commitment by the Federal Reserve. Instead of trying to strengthen the economy by reducing short-term rates, which is the usual policy tool, the Fed is pumping vast amounts of money directly into specific markets for mortgages -- and anything else that it believes needs help.
 In the first of two coordinated actions, the Treasury and the Fed said they would create a $200 billion lending program that would buy loans to consumers and small businesses. 
 Separately, the central bank announced that it would try to force down mortgage rates by buying up $600 billion in debt tied to home loans guaranteed by the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac as well as other government-controlled financing companies.
 In the last year, the Fed and the Treasury Department have bailed out major Wall Street firms, rescued the world's biggest insurer, taken over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and guaranteed hundreds of billions of dollars in bank transactions.
 The long-term risks are enormous and difficult to estimate. They begin with the danger of a new surge of inflation, at least after the economy comes out of its downturn. But they also include the hazards to taxpayers of taking responsibility for trillions of dollars in assets that may end up plunging in value. And they also raise unanswered questions about how the government will untangle itself from its new obligations, if it can indeed do so.
 But administration and central bank officials contend the much bigger risk would be to do nothing.Indeed, the government reported on Tuesday that the economy contracted by 0.5 percent in the third quarter of 2008, slightly more than it had previously estimated. But private forecasters predict that economic activity nosedived by between 4 percent and 5 percent in the fourth quarter and will continue to turn around for at least the first half of 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1075 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Forces Dilute Hebron's Volatile Brew

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

DATELINE: HEBRON, West Bank 

 BODY:
It was a scene that revealed both its medieval origins and its contemporary significance. On one side of the concrete schoolyard sat the Rajabi clan, wearing their finest kaffiyeh headdresses. On the other side were the Ajnounis, similarly decked out. 
 These ancient Hebron families had been feuding in the lawlessness of this city, leaving nine dead in recent months. Yet here they were last week, brought together by the newly installed Palestinian security forces, and being obliged to reconcile.
 Some 2,000 men sitting on plastic chairs looked on as a judge read the ruling -- 9.5 kilograms of gold or $210,000, $70,000 now and the rest in four monthly payments to the Rajabis. Old men rose, signed their names and embraced. Wads of cash held by rubber bands were produced. The audience burst into applause. 
 Hebron, the West Bank's most explosive city, with a combustible mix of hard-line Jewish settlers and Palestinian militants from Hamas and other groups, is undergoing a shake-up through the introduction of hundreds of Palestinian security officers who over the past month have stopped car thefts, foiled drug deals and arrested scores of Hamas gunmen, even seizing explosives and suicide belts. They have also focused on quality-of-life issues like fighting clans and the sales of outdated food and medicine by criminal gangs. 
 The Palestinian commander, Brig. Gen. Sameh al-Sifi, has dubbed the deployment Homeland Rising. And while that may seem a lofty name for a law-and-order operation, he has a point. The injection of the newly trained security forces into Israeli-occupied Hebron is, both sides agree, a significant step if there is ever to be a Palestinian state. 
 ''Our leadership wants us to foil terrorists,'' General Sifi, 62, said in an interview. ''There will be no legal weapons here except those used by the Palestinian Authority. My ambition is the same as that of my Israeli counterpart -- to see our grandchildren enjoying their lives like the rest of the world.''
 A senior Israeli officer in Hebron said of General Sifi: ''He's a very serious guy. I'd happily take him into our army.''
 After years of rancor, despair and false starts, something significant seems to be happening in Israeli-Palestinian security relations. 
 This is the second phase of a plan to install in the West Bank a Palestinian security force sponsored by the United States and trained by Jordan. The first, begun in May in the northern area of Jenin, has been widely praised. But Jenin was selected as a pilot partly because it has neither Hamas nor Jewish settlers in any significant numbers. Yet here too the deployment is going better than expected. 
 ''Some of the communities and neighborhoods in Hebron haven't seen a policeman since 1967,'' noted Dov Schwartz, aide to Gen. Keith Dayton, the United States security coordinator in the West Bank. ''People have turned over criminals, drug dealers and militants. This isn't some temporary crackdown. It is a sustained and determined effort.''
 But it is one that will test the Israeli-Palestinian peace process like perhaps no other.
 The Bible says that Abraham lived and bought property here to bury his wife, the matriarch Sarah, and that it was David's capital before Jerusalem, so observant Jews view Hebron as rightfully Jewish forever. 
 Indeed, nearly as much as Jerusalem, Hebron is, as the Haaretz newspaper writer Nadav Shragai put it recently, a fault line between Israelis ''for whom the future of our sons is more important than the graves of our forefathers'' and those who are convinced that there is no future for their sons in a place that is without the graves of their forefathers -- ''no physical-existential future, and most of all no spiritual future.'' 
 The Jewish settlers here -- there are only 700 in the separated and heavily guarded center of the city, but a total of 12,000 around the area of 600,000 Palestinians -- are among the most combative in the West Bank. 
 Last week, a group of them, told by the Israeli Supreme Court to leave a building, defaced a Muslim cemetery and mosque, drawing Stars of David in blue ink, writing ''Muhammad is a pig'' and scrawling the slogan of their radical movement -- ''price tag,'' a policy of exacting a price for any attempt to rein settlers in.
 David Wilder, spokesman for the Jews of Hebron, condemned the defacing but said it was the result of endless provocation and expressed surprise that it did not happen more often. He called the new Palestinian security force ''armed terrorists in uniform'' and said it was ''inconceivable that we could be making the same mistake again, letting armed Arabs into the center of Hebron.''
 Mr. Wilder was referring to what happened eight years ago when the Palestinian police turned their guns on Israelis in the second intifada and Israel responded with enormous force, destroying most of the nascent Palestinian infrastructure and reoccupying much of the West Bank. The current security cooperation is an attempt to try again as leaders of both nations assert that a two-state solution is the only way forward.
 It is complicated not only by settlers but also by the internal Palestinian tensions between the Fatah-led Palestinian Authority and the militant Hamas group, which runs Gaza and rejects Israel's existence. Efforts to reconcile the two groups are faltering, and the continued arrest of Hamas gunmen here by Palestinian troops has increased tensions. 
 A recent day spent with the new Palestinian security services revealed the range of their work.
 For example, they have filled warehouses with outdated food -- canned meat, chocolates, baby formula -- and medicine, seized from Palestinian gangs who buy the goods at cut price from Israelis and then stamp new dates on them to sell them to local shops and hospitals. The gang leaders, some with Hamas links, are awaiting trial. 
 General Sifi says the arrests are not political but aimed at any group that considers itself above the law. By shutting down criminal gangs, he says, the ground for terrorism becomes infertile. But from its power base in Gaza, Hamas views things differently and threatens revenge. 
 Word of the change is spreading fast among Palestinians in the Hebron area -- a quarter of the West Bank population and its economic center. 
 ''Forget politics, I am happy about one thing -- that now there is law and order here, that you feel more secure,'' said Zein Abu Shkhedem, a 67-year-old tailor, when asked his view of the change as he sat in his shop. ''I heard about the reconciliation and the expired food and drugs.''
 General Sifi said his security officers had even been greeted by residents with sweets and rice. Outside of his office are dozens of recovered Israeli vehicles, including a cement mixer, on their way back to Israeli authorities. He agrees with Mr. Wilder, the settler spokesman, about one thing: the intifada was an error.
 ''The main mistake was that Palestinian forces used their weapons, and as a result the Israelis dealt with us like an army facing an army,'' he said. ''Today the settlers want to provoke us, but we will not be provoked. Our forces have clear and firm instructions -- don't give in to provocation.''
 The Israeli officer in Hebron, who spoke on condition of anonymity but with full permission of the army, said that he and General Sifi often sat with maps to coordinate activity, and that they were especially careful about settlers. ''Any place near an Israeli settlement, we put a line on a map and they don't cross it,'' the officer said of the Palestinian forces. ''They have been very disciplined so far.''
 General Sifi has lived in the West Bank for only a few years. Born in a village near Jerusalem -- destroyed in Israel's independence war -- he spent his life in exile wandering the Arab world with the Palestine Liberation Organization.
 The father of two sons -- an engineer and an accountant -- and five daughters, General Sifi said he had been among the most fervent backers of armed struggle for most of his life. But in the past decade, that changed. ''I started to realize that Israel cannot be abolished,'' he said, ''and that political and diplomatic work was required for us to get our homeland within the 1967 borders with Jerusalem as its capital.'' 
 Referring to the decades of Palestinian employment throughout the region, he added: ''We helped build all the Arab countries. Why shouldn't we build our own?''
 Officials say the next stage in the rollout will be in Bethlehem, in time for Christmas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The injection of hundreds of Palestinian security officers into Israeli-occupied Hebron in the West Bank is, both sides agree, a significant step if there is ever to be a Palestinian state.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Palestinian security forces brokered a peace deal between feuding Hebron families last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); TERRORISM (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SUICIDE (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); VEHICLE THEFT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (94%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1076 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Falling Sales Widen Loss at Borders

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Borders Group said Tuesday that falling sales widened the company's loss in the third quarter and that the company was no longer considering selling its core business. 
 Borders, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., reported a net loss of $175.4 million, or $2.90 a share, compared with $161.1 million, or $2.74 a share, in the comparable quarter of last year. Revenue fell to $693.4 million, from $765.2 million. The results fell short of Wall Street expectations. 
 Borders has been in the midst of a turnaround for more than year. During that time it has sold off portions of its business, cut jobs, revamped some stores and limited its debt, but a decline in consumer spending and competition are taking a toll.
 Although Borders said in March it was exploring a possible sale of its core business as part of the larger financial restructuring plan, it struggled to find a buyer.
 The company said Tuesday that management was no longer contemplating a transaction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%)

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (97%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1077 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1989 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, Nov. 26, 2008

 BODY:
International
 PALESTINIAN FORCES BRING A CALM
 To the Volatile City of Hebron
 Hebron, a city with Jewish settlers and Palestinians militants, is the most explosive city in the West Bank. Some parts of the city have not seen a police force since 1967, officials said. But Hebron has been transformed by a recent influx of Palestinian security forces. The security forces have managed to stop car thefts, foil drug deals, defuse a culture of violence and quell blood feuds. Above, two men from rival tribes face off during the reconciliation process. PAGE A6 
 IRAN ACCUSES 3 OF SPYING FOR ISRAEL
 Iran announced that it had broken a ring of spies working for Israeli's intelligence service Mossad, and that it would seek the death penalty for three suspects it has in custody. They are to be tried within a month and if convicted of ''moharebah,'' or crimes against Islam and the state, they face the death penalty. If they are convicted of lesser charges it could mean 10 years in prison. PAGE A7 
 AFGHANS ARREST 10 IN ACID ATTACK
 The police in Kandahar Province arrested 10 Taliban militants they said were part of an attack on a group of schoolgirls that left their faces doused with what appeared to be battery acid. A high-ranking member of the Taliban paid the men $1,275 for each girl they managed to burn, apparently because the girls were attending high school, officials said. PAGE A10 
 U.S. URGES NATO TO ADMIT TWO
 In an unexpected diplomatic move, the United States has begun urging NATO allies to forgo the lengthy process normally required and offer membership to Georgia and Ukraine. The proposal faces some serious obstacles. Previous attempts by the United States to gain the nations' admittance to the alliance were met with unwillingness to commit to a specific date. PAGE A8 
 UPROAR IN GEORGIAN WAR HEARING
 A parliamentary hearing on the genesis of the war between Georgia and Russia in August ended with raised voices and furor after a former Georgian diplomat testified that Georgian authorities were responsible for starting the conflict. The diplomat was shouted down by members of Parliament after his testimony, during which he also said the United States had given permission for Georgia to start a war in Abkhazia. PAGE A8 
 A WAR MEMORIAL OF ANOTHER KIND
 Ypres, a small Flemish town and focal point of the slaughter in Belgium during World War I, has long a place that honored the heroic fallen of that conflict. Now, after 85 years, another monument has been built -- the one to recognize those who died at the hands of their own side for refusing to fight, even as the war dragged on longer than expected. PAGE A12 
 National
 CANCER DIAGNOSIS RATES CONTINUE FIRST EXTENDED DECLINE
 The incidence of new cancer cases has been falling in recent years in the United States, the first time such an extended decline has been documented, researchers reported. Cancer diagnosis rates decreased by an average of 0.8 percent annually from 1999 to 2005, the last year for which data are available, according to a report published online in The Journal of the National Cancer Institute. Death rates from cancer continued to decline as well, a trend that began some 15 years ago. PAGE A14 
 INQUIRY INTO MORMON CAMPAIGN
 A California election commission will investigate assertions that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, based in Salt Lake City, neglected to report non monetary contributions -- including phone banks, a Web site and commercials -- that the church used to help pass a ban on same-sex marriage in California. A spokeswoman for the church issued a statement saying it would cooperate with any investigation. PAGE A21 
 NEW DETAILS IN ANTHRAX CASE
 A federal court unsealed documents that shed light on the reasons F.B.I. anthrax investigators spent years pursuing the wrong man, Dr. Steven J. Hatfill, whom the government exonerated this year and gave a $4.6 million settlement. One of the reasons revealed in the search warrant affidavits that, like many, appears incriminating at first blush, was that Dr. Hatfill filled prescriptions for the antibiotic Cipro, the preferred drug for treatment of anthrax, two days before each of the mailings of anthrax-laced letters in September and October 2001. It turned out, he had a sinus infection PAGE A23 
 VERDICT SURPRISES MUSLIM GROUPS
 American Muslim groups responded with uncustomary silence to the news that leaders of a Muslim charity shut down by the American government had been convicted in a retrial for money laundering, tax fraud and supporting terrorism. The jury's conviction of five leaders of the Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development on all 108 criminal counts took many Muslim leaders by surprise because the previous trial ended in a hung jury. PAGE A23 
 A BAILOUT BY ANY OTHER NAME
 Stimulus? What's a stimulus? Oh, you must mean, ''economic recovery program.'' That's the view of Congressional leaders and officials of the incoming Obama administration. They are trying to retire the term ''stimulus'' and employ the more marketable ''economic recovery program'' as the chosen descriptor for the multibillion-dollar economic initiative to be considered early next year. Above, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi speaks at a news conference she held to encourage the approval of a bailout plan for the auto industry. PAGE A22 
 Business
 AN UNCERTAIN ROAD AHEAD 
 For a Reinvented Financial Giant
 When Morgen Stanley transformed itself into an old-fashioned holding company, it was a bid to survive the financial crisis that is racking the country and the rest of the world. It did it just in time to meet a new, bigger challenge. Where to next? Its rival Goldman Sachs is in a similar predicament, and the future is uncertain as both sit at a road with several forks in it. Page B1 
 BHP ABANDONS TAKEOVER PLANS
 BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, dropped its bid to acquire rival Rio Tinto. The decision, which caught observers off guard, was attributed to the uncertain global economic outlook and regulatory concerns in Europe that placed the deal even further outside the interests of its shareholders. It is yet another example of the economic crisis halting corporate growth. Page B3 
 SENIOR-LIVING COMPANIES STRUGGLE
 The credit crisis is battering the two largest publicly traded operators of housing for the elderly. One of them, Sunrise Senior Living, is trying to stave off bankruptcy. The other, Brookdale Senior Living, faces a mountain of debt. Brookdale, the developer of the Hallmark at Battery Park City, above, a 14-story retirement and assisted-living home in Lower Manhattan, is expected to cut its dividend to meet near-term obligations. Page B6
 A MARRIOTT FOR NEW BEDFORD
 The sober history of New Bedford, Mass., with the departing of factories in the 1980s and rampant violent crime, may have given way to a more optimistic future. A local developer has agreed to build a Marriott hotel on the town's waterfront -- the first in 40 years. This milestone not only turns New Bedford into a destination rather than a town to pass through, it also adds to strides in renewal in recent years. Page B6 
 DIGITAL SALES AT ATLANTIC RECORDS
 Media industries have all felt the encroaching digital wave. Atlantic Records is now the first major label to report that revenue from digital sales, like iTunes downloads and ring tones for cellular phones, have finally outstripped CD sales. While the slice of the pie for digital sales is growing, the pie itself gets smaller every day, dimming the hope that digital sales could someday fill the gap. Page B1 
 A CARAVAN FROM DETROIT TO D.C.
 Detroit does not normally embrace the idea of carpooling. But these are not normal timesin Detroit. Car dealers, parts makers, union leaders and others hoping to convince lawmakers that the industry is an indispensable piece of the economy are planning a caravan to Washington in early December. The 525-mile drive will occur as auto executives, who for now are not participating in the mass carpool, make a second plea for federal assistance. Page B4
 Sports
 FOR A STAR GERMAN GOALTENDER, 
 Outcomes Are Past Win or Lose
 For a high-caliber player of any sport in any league one of the worst things could be warming the bench. But for Robert Muller, of Kolner Haie in the Deutsche Eishockey Liga and a top goaltender, there is the potential for much worse than idle time watching others play. Mr. Muller, above, has an incurable form of brain cancer. Despite this, he continues to play at the highest level of the game in his country, in a story that has riveted German fans of the sport since last year. Page B10 
 PENN STATE, THE SEAT OF CHAMPIONS
 The center of the college volleyball world couldn't get much farther from the surf, sand and sun than State College, Pa. But Rec Hall, the building on Penn State's campus where both the men's and the women's teams play, has had to double as a trophy room following two championship volleyball performances last year. Penn State became only the second university to win men's and women's N.C.A.A. volleyball titles in the same academic year. Page B11
 New York
 FOR EX-PRISONERS' FAMILIES, 
 A Lifeline Shuts Its Doors
 From the ashes of a bodega just off Avenue C in Manhattan, grew La Bodega de la Familia, a program that was a lifeline for ex-prisoners, drastically cutting down on drug use and recidivism. This week, La Bodega is going out of business as the need for it might be greater than ever. While the neighborhood has become safer and wealthier, gentrification hasn't erased the social problems that still plague the area. About New York, Jim Dwyer. Page A27 
 NO PRISON FOR SERVICE BOOKER
 A part-time booker for Emperor's Club V.I.P., the escort service the authorities say former Gov. Eliot Spitzer patronized, will not go to prison a federal judge ruled. The judge noted that the booker, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy in August, had a minimal role in the conspiracy. The booker was sentenced to probation. Page A29 
 Obituaries
 MC BREED, MIDWEST RAPPER, 37
 He was one of the first commercially successful and recognized rappers to come out of the Midwest. The MC, born Eric Breed on June 12, 1971, was known for his lyrical skill and songwriting ability. His debut album, ''MC Breed & DFC,'' made him a staple in Los Angeles and became his biggest hit. He died of kidney failure. Page A31 
 Editorial
 A CATASTROPHIC SILENCE
 The killing of an Ecuadorean immigrant on Long Island this month brought with it a cruel blessing. From a shocking crime came a chance for a community to bind old wounds and to bury anger. Instead, the moment is collapsing into the same old shouting. PAGE A32
 SO WHO PICKED UP THE TAB?
 More questions are being raised about the doubtful ethics of Charles Rangel, the New York congressman and powerful chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. PAGE A32
 'THE SAVIOR OF BROADWAY,' WRITTEN AND DIRECTED BY GERALD SCHOENFELD
 An appreciation of the impresario's career by Frank Rich, a Times columnist and former drama critic. PAGE A32
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Using Citigroup as Exhibit A, we can see how some of our country's best-paid bankers were overrated dopes who had no idea what they were selling, or greedy cynics who did know and turned a blind eye. This financial turmoil involved a broad national breakdown in personal responsibility, government regulation and financial ethics. PAGE A33
 WHERE THE WILD THINGS WERE
 When the Pilgrims celebrated Thanksgiving, foods from the forests, streams and marshes figured prominently on the menu, writes Andrew Beahrs, an Op-Ed contributor. And when Mark Twain constructed a list of foods he craved, wild birds and seafood played a big role. Yet on Thursday, our holiday tables surely will be laden with the mundane and cultivated, demonstrating our distance from our wild landscape. PAGE A33

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); TALIBAN (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CANCER (76%); CAPITAL CRIMES (74%); BURN INJURIES (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); RELIGION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); VEHICLE THEFT (71%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); WORLD WAR I (62%); POLICE FORCES (58%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); BELGIUM (86%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1078 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Great Engine of China Slows

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Chen Yang contributed research from Shanghai.

DATELINE: MA'ANSHAN, China 

 BODY:
The Ma'anshan Iron and Steel Company recently opened a giant $3 billion steel mill on the outskirts of this city. The mill, which covers one and a half square miles and has its own power plant and shipping port, was built to help meet China's seemingly insatiable appetite for growth. 
 But during what should have been a peak production period two weeks ago, it was silent. Rolls of coiled steel sat near the end of a long assembly line as a few helmeted workers lounged about, playing with their mobile phones. 
 Three blast furnaces and a line that produces H-beams for construction were also temporarily shuttered here at Ma'anshan, about an hour west of Nanjing. 
 ''Demand is definitely shrinking,'' Wang Wei, an investor relations manager, said as he toured one of the brand-new plants. ''Everyone is cutting back capacity.''
 It is happening faster than most anyone predicted: China's economy, long the world's fastest-growing major economy, is slowing down. Economists are forecasting that after growing nearly 12 percent last year, China's economy could slow to 5.5 percent in the fourth quarter of this year -- a stunning retreat for a country accustomed to boom times. 
 Last week, banking regulators began warning about the risk of bad loans accumulating, and labor officials publicly worried about the possibility that mass layoffs would lead to unrest.
 ''It's the speed of the deceleration that scares people,'' says Liang Hong, a Goldman Sachs economist who said she recently surveyed companies in China.
 The American recession is one big reason China's epic economic growth is imperiled: as Americans buy less, China sells less. And China's own efforts to keep its economy growing, through a stimulus package worth nearly $600 billion, may not replace a falloff in American demand as the United States' recession deepens. 
 The global downturn is already reaching deep into the heart of the country's once-rapid industrial transformation -- its steel, cement and construction companies -- stalling dozens of multibillion-dollar investment projects. Plunging housing prices at home combined with a virtual global investment freeze have led to steel orders softening, steel prices plummeting, and inventories and losses piling up. 
 Coast to interior, China's aggressive building boom is no longer so aggressive.
 In Hebei Province, in north China, Capital Steel, one of China's biggest steel makers, is building a $10 billion steel mill complex on an island, even as its profits evaporate.
 In the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou, Vanke -- a huge real estate company -- is spending more than $1 billion to build what amounts to a new city, with its own schools, a hospital and thousands of town houses at a time when the company is reporting a huge drop in sales.
 And in Macao, new construction is grinding to a halt on one of the world's biggest real estate developments -- a massive casino and hotel complex whose cost has been estimated at $20 billion -- because of huge debt obligations. About 10,000 people could lose their jobs.
 Nationally, Chinese officials say their country faces a grim situation. New economic data released over the last weeks is beginning to reveal the extent of the slowdown in China.
 This year, housing sales in big cities have plunged by as much as 40 percent from a year ago. Government revenue was down in October. And last month, industrial production registered its weakest growth in seven years.
 ''Growth is deteriorating fast,'' says Andrew Driscoll, a China resource analyst at CLSA, the investment bank. ''We're not talking about China's growth going backwards. But when supply is geared toward 10 percent growth, and it comes down to 5 percent, you have excess supply.''
 To cope, Beijing recently approved the biggest economic stimulus effort in China's history: a $586 billion package over two years, aimed at shoring up the very industries that seem to be faltering -- steel, cement and companies engaged in building.
 The government also approved emergency measures including tax relief, export rebates and housing policies. One Beijing official said the government could spend more than $586 billion. 
 The government is promising fast approvals for local governments to build subsidized housing, railways and airports, and even nuclear power plants. Fixed-asset investment -- or spending on things like housing and manufacturing plants -- accounts for about 45 percent of the nation's economy, and that is the focus of the effort, analysts say.
 Just months ago, Chinese leaders were warning that growth was too strong and risked stoking inflation. Now, Chinese officials say they want to do their part to keep the global economy from slipping into recession.
 In America, consumers have closed their wallets. Parts of Europe are already in recession. And in Asia, Japan and Hong Kong now say that they too have slid into recession.
 The ripple effects are being felt everywhere in China. Hard-hit airlines and automakers have appealed for government aid. Local governments that raised millions of dollars auctioning off land rights are confronting lower bids and depressed sales, which essentially means lower tax revenue.
 Lead smelters, which produce material for the battery industry, and aluminum producers are shutting down production lines. And cement makers -- one of the pillar industries in a nation perpetually under construction -- are depressed.
 ''This is a bleak winter for the cement industry,'' says Yang Dongsen, an analyst at Merchant Securities in Shenzhen. ''There's a nose dive in real estate construction. In south China and east China, two places where real estate boomed, many projects have suddenly stalled.''
 Last month, electricity production in China dropped for the first time since early 2005, a sign that big industry, the largest consumer of power, is in retreat.
 ''Global commodity prices collapsed. People got scared, and many activities just stopped,'' said Liang Hong, the Goldman Sachs economist. ''Many turned off the lights.''
 Steel producers are among the worst off. Slowing demand has forced many to idle plants. Australian and Brazilian iron ore suppliers -- which reaped huge profits from China's building boom -- say demand from China has already slowed sharply.
 Here at Ma'anshan Iron and Steel, executives are pondering what happened just after the middle of the year, after they began operating a huge new mill that they say is much more efficient than older mills. Ma'anshan's average steel price peaked at $768 a ton around June, then began falling sharply. In November, prices dipped as low as $490 a ton.
 Steel executives say weak consumer spending reduced demand for things like cars and refrigerators, which contain finished steel. But most say falling property prices had an even bigger impact.
 Ma'anshan recently reduced its production by about 15 percent. But company executives say they are hopeful about the government rescue effort, one that will put China back to building.
 ''I'm quite optimistic about the stimulus package,'' Hu Shunliang, board secretary at Ma'anshan Iron and Steel, said. ''It's not just theater. It will stimulate other industries and help bring us more investment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rolled steel stockpiled at Ma'anshan Iron and Steel in Ma'anshan, China, where the company recently opened a mill.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Train wheels were being made recently at Ma'anshan Iron and Steel. Ma'anshan has reduced production by about 15 percent.
 Inventory filled a building at Ma'anshan, above left. The company has closed three blast furnaces and a line that produces beams.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (68%); HOME PRICES (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); LIAONING, CHINA (90%); ANHUI, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (73%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); HEBEI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1079 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 399 words

PERSON: MC Breed 

HEADLINE: MC Breed, 37, Rapper With Midwest Roots

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
MC Breed, one of the first commercially successful and nationally recognized rappers from the Midwest, died on Saturday in Ypsilanti, Mich. He was 37.
 The cause was kidney failure, said his manager, Darryl Morris. In September, Mr. Breed was hospitalized for the same condition after collapsing at a basketball game and was briefly placed on life support. 
 Born Eric Breed on June 12, 1971, he began his career in economically depressed Flint, Mich., where he was reared: ''A city/where pity runs low,'' he rapped of his hometown. 
 At the time he released his debut album with Da Flint Crew, ''MC Breed & DFC,'' in 1991, rappers hailing from the Midwest were still novelties, but Mr. Breed's lyrical dexterity and songwriting gifts helped him gain wide attention. A single from that album, ''Ain't No Future in Yo Frontin','' with its crisp drums, drawn from New York hip-hop, and needling synthesizers, which were a Los Angeles rap staple, became his biggest hit.
 Shortly after the album's release, Mr. Breed moved to Atlanta, where the label he recorded with, Ichiban, was based. Quickly, his house and studio became a hotbed for local talent, where emerging producers like Jazze Pha and established stars like Too Short would gather to play video games and record music.
 ''If you took Breed out of the equation, there are many careers that would never would have happened,'' Too Short said in an interview. 
 On later albums, Mr. Breed moved toward a funk-driven sound similar to Los Angeles gangster rap; on his 1993 album, ''The New Breed,'' he worked with the West Coast rap pioneer the D.O.C.
 During this period, Mr. Breed was in high demand as a collaborator. He worked with Too Short on several albums, both as a rapper and a ghostwriter. A chance meeting with Tupac Shakur in a tattoo parlor led to the single ''Gotta Get Mine,'' which became a hit in 1993. That year Mr. Breed also appeared, alongside Ice Cube and Dr. Dre, on a characteristically wacky George Clinton song, ''Paint the White House Black.''
 Living mostly in Atlanta, he continued to release albums through the 1990s. At his death, he was preparing a new album and a DVD about his career. 
 Mr. Breed is survived by his parents, Roy LeEster and Willie Breed; his children, Kiara Monique, Erica Ariel, Alexis Cymone, Marco Chene and Eric Jalen; two brothers, Pete and Kevin Breed; and a sister, Bridgette Breed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MC Breed (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRINCE/ATL PICS, 2007) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); RECORD RELEASES (89%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); SONG WRITING (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); TATTOO PARLORS (66%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); WEST USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1080 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: To Buy Children's Gifts, Mothers Do Without

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Come Christmas, McKenna Hunt, a gregarious little girl from Safety Harbor, Fla., will receive the play kitchen and the Elmo doll she wants. But her mother, Kristen Hunt, will go without the designer jeans she covets this season.
 For Ms. Hunt and for millions of mothers across the nation, this holiday season is turning into a time of sacrifice. Weathering the first severe economic downturn of their adult lives, these women are discovering that a practice they once indulged without thinking about it, shopping a bit for themselves at the holidays, has to give way to their children's wish lists.
 ''I want her to be able to look back,'' Ms. Hunt declared, ''and say, 'Even though they were tough times, my mom was still able to give me stuff.' '' 
 In this economy, nearly everyone is forgoing indulgences, and many fathers will no doubt sacrifice this year to put toys under the tree. But figures suggest the burden is falling most heavily on women, particularly mothers.
 In September and October, sales of women's apparel fell precipitously compared with the same months the year before. They were down 18.2 percent in October, for instance, compared with a decrease of 8.3 percent for men's apparel, according to SpendingPulse, a report by MasterCard Advisors. 
 And a survey of shoppers' intentions by the NPD Group, a consultant firm, suggests that such cutbacks may continue through the holiday season. Some 61 percent of mothers said they would shop less for themselves this year, compared with 56 percent of all women and 45 percent of men.
 The survey suggested that mothers, more than any other group, would also spend less money over all and postpone big-ticket purchases, like the dishwasher that Ms. Hunt wants to buy. 
 It may be noble sacrifice for women to spend less on themselves to benefit their families. But it is bad news for the troubled retail industry, which relies heavily on sales of women's apparel.
 ''As we go into the holiday, it's not going to be 'One for my sister and one for me,' '' said Marie Driscoll, an analyst for Standard & Poor's Equity Research Services. ''You might not even get one for your sister so you can buy great gifts for her kids.''
 Reyne Rice, who studies toy trends for the Toy Industry Association, said mothers do at least 80 percent of the holiday shopping in a family, and in past recessions they have been the first to do without. They tend not to get a new coat for themselves, Ms. Rice said, so they can provide for their children.
 Analysts say the pullback by women in this downturn is among the most drastic they have seen. 
 ''You just keep hearing, 'We've stopped shopping altogether,' '' said John D. Morris, a retail analyst with Wachovia, adding that the typical woman is ''finding fashion in the back of her closet.''
 The downturn, analysts said, is being exacerbated by unexciting fashions in stores. And the lack of pressure to conform to one particular style these days means women do not have to update their work wardrobes. 
 As they scale back their own indulgences, mothers are looking for additional ways to cut the cost of Christmas. Some are using online tools to organize meetings with other mothers to swap clothing, toys, video games and books. Others are buying DVDs and video games in bulk from warehouse stores like BJ's Wholesale Club, then taking the sets apart to create multiple gifts. 
 Matriarchs of big families are bringing back the old practice of pulling names out of a hat to decide who will buy a gift for whom. Some mothers have made pacts, with their spouse or other family members, not to buy gifts for anyone but the children.
 Despite all these efforts, many mothers will nonetheless end up cutting back, at least a bit, on spending for their children. Historically, the toy industry has been more immune to economic downturns than other industries, but this year, analysts expect it to feel the pinch.
 That could translate into fewer presents for children over all, even though many parents will go to great lengths to buy the one or two gifts their child wants most.
 ''While times are difficult, the last thing parents are going to cut from their budget is the Christmas present for their child,'' said Gerald L. Storch, chairman and chief executive of Toys ''R'' Us. ''We are not seeing price resistance for the hot toys.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kristen Hunt, of Safety Harbor, Fla., with gifts that she has bought for her daughter, McKenna. Because of the weak economy, Ms. Hunt is putting off buying a pair of designer jeans for herself.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARITY BECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WOMEN (89%); FAMILY (89%); MEN (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); PARENTS (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); MARKETING SURVEYS (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); EQUITY RESEARCH (74%); MEN'S CLOTHING (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); TICKET SALES (67%); TOYS & GAMES (67%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1081 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Remorseful Ex-Officials Decline Pay From UBS

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
As a number of American banks resist calls to rein in executive pay, the unthinkable is happening -- at least in Switzerland, where three former officials of UBS, the troubled Swiss financial giant, said on Tuesday that they would forgo more than $27 million in compensation.
 Marcel Ospel, the former chairman of the board at the Swiss bank, and Stephan Haeringer and Marco Suter, two former directors, said they would give up pay promised them after the bank reported nearly $50 billion in losses and received even more than that in financial support from the Swiss government. 
 ''With the involvement of the Swiss government, I realized that decisive action was required on my part,'' Mr. Ospel said in a statement. ''I hope that my action will help to resolve a situation that was inconceivable to me until a short time ago,'' he said. 
 Mr. Ospel will contribute more than two-thirds of the total; the balance will be paid by Mr. Haeringer and Mr. Suter. 
 In response, UBS issued a very brief statement: ''We welcome the decision.''
 As indeed UBS might. The former UBS executives had been the focus of intense public criticism after the bank reported stunning losses on devastating subprime-related investments. This month, the bank announced that its chairman, Peter Kurer; its chief executive, Marcel Rohner; and members of its executive board would also have a bonus-free 2008.
 In the United States, lawmakers and regulators have expressed profound frustration over a perceived lack of remorse among executives who made millions while peddling investments in securities whose plummeting value has pushed the financial system to the brink of collapse. Executives have resisted cuts.
 Regulators in the United States have called on companies to slash bonuses this year and, in at least one case, to figure out ways to get back bonuses and severance payments already given to executives -- a difficult and potentially embarrassing exercise. The former UBS executives have eliminated the need for such action, at least in their case.
 ''That is almost unheard of,'' Dirk Jenter, an assistant professor of finance at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, said of the move by the executives. ''They've clearly been shamed into doing that.'' 
 But shame has been much less effective on this side of the Atlantic, where companies have resisted cutting bonuses and salaries even as their businesses crater. Only in recent weeks have companies receiving taxpayer assistance, including Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, agreed to reduce or eliminate bonus payments to current executives.
 On Tuesday, under pressure from the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, American International Group, the troubled insurance conglomerate now reliant on support from the federal government, said the company would not pay any bonuses to its top seven executives this year and that the top 60 executives would not receive any raises through 2009.
 Those limits are a ''positive step,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. ''It is only fair that top executives, who benefit the most when firms do well, should also bear the burden of the difficult economic consequences their firms now face.''
 Perhaps of more long-term significance are changes in compensation structure now under consideration in corporate boardrooms. A.I.G., for example, also announced that its chief executive would receive no severance payments and that such payments to senior management would be limited.
 Last week, UBS announced that under its new regime, as of 2009 a maximum of one-third of an annual bonus would actually be paid at year's end, with the rest held in escrow. The amount in escrow could be reduced if UBS subsequently had poor results, if regulations were violated or unnecessary risks were taken.
 In their press release, the three former UBS board members noted that their decision should not be considered an admission of guilt ''in a legal sense.''
 Asked whether he thought executives at Wall Street firms might follow the example of their counterparts in Switzerland, Mr. Jenter was skeptical.
 ''I would not put my money on it -- not that I have much left after what the market has been doing,'' Mr. Jenter said. ''But it certainly seems unlikely.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marcel Ospel, the former chairman of the board at UBS, said he would give up pay after the bank reported losses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN WERMUTH/REUTERS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BONUS PAY (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1082 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Old New England Whaling Center Will Soon Offer Visitors a Place to Stay

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ABBOTT

DATELINE: NEW BEDFORD, Mass. 

 BODY:
Convinced that this storied seaport of cobblestone streets has ended years of economic devastation and crime, a local developer plans to build a Marriott hotel on New Bedford's waterfront -- the first downtown hotel here in decades. 
 The LaFrance Hospitality Company, a family business in Westport, Mass., which owns eight hotels in New England, a restaurant and catering business, is planning a $10 million 106-room Marriott Fairfield Inn and Suites on a 1.6-acre parcel across the street from New Bedford's fishing piers. Site preparation is under way, with a groundbreaking planned for early next year. 
 The five-story hotel will incorporate a historic granite structure, which used to be a whale oil refinery, a reminder of the days when New Bedford was the whaling capital of the world. Its facade will combine brick, granite and wood. The site is just outside the New Bedford Whaling National Historic Park, 13 city blocks of 18th- and 19th-century buildings where the likes of Herman Melville and Frederick Douglass once strolled.
 ''This is very important to the city,'' New Bedford's mayor, Scott W. Lang, said of the hotel.
 New Bedford has made strides in renewing itself in recent years. But without a hotel downtown, the city remained a ''pass-through'' for people catching a ferry to Martha's Vineyard or driving on to Cape Cod, Mayor Lang said.
 Now, New Bedford can be a destination in itself, opening opportunities for other tourism ventures and other industries, he said. ''You need a hotel where your assets are,'' Mr. Lang said. 
 For New Bedford, which still has a fishing fleet of more than 225 vessels, bringing in the largest catch, in dollar value, of any port in the United States, its assets are the waterfront and its historic downtown, the mayor said. 
 Yet, it has not been easy to persuade a developer to build a hotel downtown. In the last five years or so, there have been at least three attempts to do so. 
 The city's only downtown hotel closed in 1958. Since then, the closest place of any repute for visitors to stay has been a Days Inn on the outskirts of the city, four miles from downtown. After a while, it became embarrassing not having a hotel downtown, said Matthew A. Morrissey, executive director of the city's Economic Development Council.
 Then, LaFrance Hospitality, whose offices are only 12 miles from here, stepped into the picture. Its executives said they could see enough positive changes starting to take place in New Bedford to justify the company's taking a risk on developing a hotel there.
 Since 2000, 32 buildings in the downtown have been restored, at a cost of more than $80 million; 14 other buildings are in a ''preconstruction'' stage, the city said. Most of these are historic structures that are being renovated into commercial or mixed-use space, often with the help of state and federal historic tax credits.
 In addition, several developments are under way elsewhere in New Bedford, including a $35 million mill conversion into condominiums, and there are plans to build the $2 million Waterfront Community Center on the Acushnet River, which will be a recreation facility and event center.
 ''New Bedford is on the rebound,'' said Richard LaFrance, the hotel company's president.
 The company was also swayed by a marketing study commissioned by the city, which showed there was enough visitor demand to support a hotel, Mr. Morrissey said. The Martha's Vineyard ferry is within walking distance to the site of the new hotel. Begun five years ago, the service has had a steady rise in passengers, with a 26 percent jump in the last year, he said. 
 LaFrance bought the site of the hotel last year for $1.2 million. The city has been working with the company to put together a financing package that is likely to include tax incentives.
 Mr. Morrissey and Mr. LaFrance said they were not worried about getting financing, despite the nation's economic crisis. ''It's going forward,'' Mr. LaFrance said. The hotel is slated to open in the spring of 2010. 
 New Bedford is a long and narrow city, with an area about the same as Manhattan's and a population that hovers around 100,000. In its early years, it was a vibrant, even wealthy, place, as whaling ships returned with blubber, spermaceti and other byproducts needed to make whale oil. At its peak, in 1857, New Bedford had 329 whaling vessels.
 The city was also a stop on the Underground Railroad. 
 Once electricity replaced whale oil as the source of light, manufacturing became the city's economic engine, predominantly textile manufacturing. This lasted until the 1980s, when as in other New England cities, the factories either shut down or moved away. ''In the 1980s, essentially everything bottomed out,'' Mr. Morrissey said. 
 That's when New Bedford started to become known mainly for blight and despair. The notorious 1983 rape at Big Dan's tavern made national news. Gang violence became such a problem that John Lewis, the Georgia Democratic congressman and civil rights leader, visited New Bedford two years ago to lead a peace march in the city after the mother of a suspected gang member was found murdered in her home. 
 When Mr. Lang was sworn in as mayor in 2006, he inherited these problems. A former prosecutor, he tackled them with a ''full court press,'' he said.
 New Bedford has embraced a belief that the arts can be used to rebuild its fortunes. In 2007, it authorized hiring a creative economy development officer to coordinate arts programming, financing and development. 
 The city's landmark Zeiterion Theater draws an average of 4,500 people downtown on weekends. The city also holds an annual Arts Symposium and Open Studio Weekend, which attracts 300 to 500 visitors.
 According to Mr. Morrissey, the city feels that in LaFrance Hospitality it has a developer that not only appreciates New Bedford's past, but also its future.
 ''We have a lot at stake in the area,'' Mr. LaFrance said. ''It's our hometown. We want it to work.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Lang, mayor of New Bedford, Mass., at a former whale oil refinery.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEW MILNE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FINFISH FISHING (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (96%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1083 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: A Critic, Insatiable And Dismissed

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
IF it was intended to, the announcement on Friday by New York magazine's Insatiable Critic at the Rainbow Room in Manhattan certainly achieved the maximum frisson. Gael Greene stood at the microphone during the annual Power Lunch for Women benefiting Citymeals-on-Wheels -- the nonprofit she co-founded 27 years ago to feed the city's homebound elderly -- and lamented the economic meltdown. 
 ''I've just been downsized myself,'' she said, and indeed, two days before, Ms. Greene had been fired after 40 years at New York. There were gasps, tsk-tsks and not a few shaken heads among the 340 leading ladies, including Nora Ephron, Martha Stewart, Kathleen Turner and Diana Taylor.
 Most were unaware that the day before, Ms. Greene had sent her own news release about the sacking, referring to herself as ''the brand name of restaurant journalism'' at New York. But even among those who might have seen it coming, many were taken aback at the expulsion of the sensualist who influenced the way a generation of New Yorkers ate, and who served as a lusty narrator of restaurant life in New York for decades. 
 ''It's as if they removed the lions from the library steps,'' said Michael Batterberry, editor and publisher of Food Arts magazine.
 The priestess of radicchio, beurre blanc and arugula, Ms. Greene, who said she is 74, had become an attenuating natural resource at New York since giving up her weekly chief reviewer's role eight years ago to write the Insatiable Critic column and run her independent Web site, InsatiableCritic.com. Her last column appears in the Dec. 1 issue. 
 ''I just wonder why the magazine had to handle it this way,'' said Julian Niccolini, a partner at the Four Seasons restaurant. ''Who else has had her longevity? And look what she's done for Citymeals-on-Wheels.'' 
 Indeed, the luncheon raised a record $1.5 million, Ms. Greene said.
 Debate among the stomach-obsessed since then has veered from whether she was an arbiter of the evolution of American dining -- a legend to whom respect must be paid -- or a relict of a bygone era too cozy with chefs she reviewed. 
 She was so cozy, in fact, that she wrote a book, ''Insatiable: Tales From a Life of Delicious Excess'' (Warner Books, 2006), indexing her artisanal affairs with everyone from star chefs (like Jean Troisgros and Gilbert Le Coze) to just plain stars (Clint Eastwood and Burt Reynolds).
 Before she relinquished her chief-critic role, there had been editors at New York who were stung by her pronouncements on which restaurants should be accorded how much attention, and Ms. Greene is still resented by some she criticized through the decades, none of whom agreed to say so for publication. 
 But Robert Lape, restaurant critic for Crain's New York Business, said that Ms. Greene's ''palate is one of the best in the business,'' and that ''she could always parse a meal quite brilliantly, and her skills have not diminished.''
 Her hold on celebrity chefs and their cellphones has not diminished, either. When interviewed for this article, Ms. Greene called Jean-Georges Vongerichten to ask if she could be photographed in his Jean Georges restaurant because ''I love the light there,'' she said. Mr. Vongerichten agreed, and met her at the shoot.
 She perseveres in her incognito fetish -- wearing her trademark hats and averting her head near photographers because ''I hope to be anonymous when I walk into a restaurant with my bare-naked face,'' she said. 
 Ms. Greene, a University of Michigan graduate who studied at the Sorbonne, said she was raised in a cocoon of Velveeta in Detroit, where she bedded Elvis Presley in 1956 as a U.P.I. reporter, as she tells it. (On the way out, she ordered The King a fried-egg sandwich from room service.)
 After she became a reporter for The New York Post and then a freelancer, the founding editor of the nascent New York, Clay Felker, made her his first restaurant reviewer only months after the magazine's debut in 1968. 
 ''It was as if New York magazine had found its own version of Colette when it came to food,'' Mr. Batterberry said. ''She created an entirely fresh new voice, one that has never staled.'' 
 She also launched an assault on the rep-tie restaurant criticism of the 1960s. Ms. Greene trashed the sacrosanct ''21'' Club as boring and overpriced, and lobbed word grenades into Elaine's when few would have dared. She celebrated not only Lutece and Le Bernardin but also the snack bar in Paley Park on East 53d Street.
 Ms. Greene -- who once wrote that ''the two greatest discoveries of the 20th century were the Cuisinart and the clitoris'' -- said she has written about food as she has about sex: ''How does it feel, how does it taste, and what is it about. If you are a sensuous eater, these things are important.'' 
 Some have thought of her at times as what celebrity-wranglers bemoan as ''heavy furniture.'' But in her reviews and books, ''she laid bare her laying bare -- the pure sensualist unleashed,'' Mr. Lape said. 
 Though often seemingly desperate for male attention in her public persona as a sort of forerunner Carrie Bradshaw, Ms. Greene was rejected by the old-boys' network. Early on, her feminism was annealed by criticism from men who labeled her with such words as ''housewife.'' 
 Her food-as-a-drug writing style offended others as overwrought. In 1982 the Washington Post critic Jonathan Yardley panned her erotic novel ''Doctor Love,'' saying that she was guilty of ''terminal tackiness.''
 Adam Moss, New York's editor in chief, said Ms. Greene ''was laid off -- there is no elegant expression for it'' because New York could no longer afford four food critics. Adam Platt is the chief weekly reviewer and Robin Raisfeld and Rob Patronite write the Underground Gourmet column. 
 Ms. Greene said that when Mr. Moss gave her the news last Wednesday: ''It was narcissistic shock: moi? I thought I was a brand at New York magazine. I'm the only editorial person on the staff left from the earliest days.''
 Ms. Greene would not reveal her salary as a contributing editor, but it was less than $50,000, according to a friend who spoke on condition of anonymity because the information was confidential. 
 Ms. Greene will continue critiquing food for her blog, and she said she will pay for what she eats. ''It's basic, a critic must always pay the bill,'' Ms. Greene said. After she gave up the weekly critic role, she said, ''I had a smaller expense account, so I paid from my salary.'' 
 But Ms. Greene said she does agree to free meals when she is ''covering events, but not being a critic,'' she said, including restaurants' early ''soft openings.'' She made an exception, she said, writing in last week's New York about a $1,500-a-person dinner at Per Se in Manhattan. ''I was a guest,'' she said. ''I did not think of paying $1,500. Perhaps that was a flaw.'' 
 She has long walked that line. In 1986 Ms. Greene gave a party for her book, ''Delicious Sex,'' for 700 guests with a dozen restaurants supplying free food. ''Asking chefs to do things for my book party was a mistake,'' she said, ''and I really regret it.'' 
 As for more racy conflicts of interest, Ms. Greene said that she solved -- to her own satisfaction -- the problem of reviewing chefs she'd had affairs with by sharing that knowledge with readers, as in her enthusiastic 1977 review of Le Cirque, titled ''I Love Le Cirque, but Can I Be Trusted?'' It revealed her liaison with the chef de cuisine, Jean-Louis Todeschini.
 Ms. Greene, who said she is childless by choice, lives with her partner of 22 years, Steven Richter, a New York photographer. 
 What is next for her? ''Dinner,'' she said instantly. Then, more thoughtfully, she said that she would devote more attention to her blog, finish a children's book she's been writing and freelance ''the next exciting food story.'' 
 She also hopes to stay youthful, she said: ''I work out five days a week. And use lots of blue eye shadow.'' 
 ''Even great wines don't last forever,'' she added. ''But I'm not going to stop eating.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about Gael Greene's dismissal as a restaurant critic for New York magazine misidentified the news service she was reporting for when she had an affair with Elvis Presley in 1956. It was United Press, not United Press International, which was formed in 1958 when United Press merged with the International News Service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE WOMAN. THE BRAND.: Gael Greene, ''seen'' at Jean Georges, recently lost her magazine job.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THE SENSUALIST: Gael Greene in 1971, when she had been reviewing restaurants for New York magazine for three years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAY STUBBLEBINE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); MEALS ON WHEELS (89%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (58%); CLINT EASTWOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1084 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Free Holiday Turkeys, a Ritual in Decline

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Andre Thomas dialed a number on his cellphone on Monday as he walked through the parking lot outside Citi Field, the New York Mets' new ballpark, and said: ''I got it.'' 
 What Mr. Thomas, 37, an electrician who was wiring the press boxes, had just gotten was a 25-pound frozen turkey from the electrical contractor he works for. 
 The call was to his mother, Pamela Daly. Months ago, when he was new on the job and heard that the company distributed turkeys to everyone on the payroll for Thanksgiving, he promised his to her. 
 Giving holiday turkeys to employees was a ritual a generation or two ago, when unions were more powerful and some companies tried to counter labor's influence by taking a stab at paternalism. 
 Free holiday turkeys are less common nowadays, and labor historians said the practice had already declined before the economic situation drove bosses to slash budgets in the name of survival.
 But some turkey giveaways continue. The Sheraton hotels on Seventh Avenue started handing out frozen turkeys on Monday -- more than 1,100 in all. Mr. Thomas's company, Five Star Electric, sent two trucks loaded with frozen turkeys to job sites around the city. 
 Still, only 3 percent of employers nationwide plan to give turkeys to their workers this year, half as many as last year, according to a survey of 210 businesses by the Bureau of National Affairs, a private company that monitors workplace trends. The figure has bounced around in the last decade, tumbling from about 5 or 6 percent each year between 2000 and 2004 to only 2 percent in 2005 and 3 percent in 2006. 
 Matthew Sottong, the bureau's director of surveys and research, said that far more employers -- 8 percent in the survey -- now distribute gift certificates, which workers can redeem for a turkey at a supermarket or deposit as a $20 credit in a bank account. United Parcel Service does this for its 320,000 workers nationwide -- drivers, clerks and other employees at its package-sorting centers. So does the Grand Hyatt Hotel in New York, which gave out turkeys until a couple of years ago.
 Mr. Sottong said that 12 percent of employers planned to give workers some kind of holiday gift this Thanksgiving, the same number as in 2006 and 2007 but far less than in 2004, when 23 percent reported they would do something for workers besides just hand out paychecks as the holiday season approached. Holiday lunches appear to have taken the biggest hit in a decade because of cost-cutting: only 2 percent of employers plan them, down from a high of 9 percent in 2004. 
 Americans associate turkeys with the feast that Pilgrims and Indians shared after a bountiful harvest in Colonial days. And some historians speculate that passing out turkeys to workers during the holidays began in 19th-century England with bosses who had read about, and did not want to be compared with, Ebenezer Scrooge (who, after all, eventually bought one for Bob Cratchit). 
 In this country, as manufacturing boomed and factories had assembly-line jobs to fill, the turkey-giving tradition was a way to ''introduce immigrants to an American tradition,'' said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy at New York University. ''It was a way to do holiday spirit for people who weren't familiar with the holiday.'' 
 Some companies carried on the tradition even when turkeys were in short supply or rationed. During World War II, Jake Swirbul, a co-founder of the Grumman Corporation on Long Island, bought turkey eggs and had them hatched so the company would have holiday turkeys to distribute.
 Things changed with the decline of manufacturing and the rise of service-sector jobs. ''The turkey was from a time when people got wages in an envelope paid on a weekly basis,'' Mr. Moss said. ''Once employers took on the burden of benefits, it was no longer as important to give turkeys because they were providing other things.''
 Some labor historians said it was not surprising that turkeys were still distributed in construction trades, where management comes from the rank and file. Peter Cappelli, a professor of management at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, said the tradition was associated with unions but was not considered a bargaining chip. 
 ''When the unions come in, the issue of the turkey becomes a standard practice,'' he said. ''It wasn't that they bargained over the turkey, but if the company took it away, it became something that could show up in arbitration -- unilaterally changing conditions. And so, if you look at where it persists, it tends to be unionized environments.''
 Mr. Thomas's company, Five Star Electric, is a union employer that has been handing out turkeys since 1959, its first year in business, when it had four people on the payroll. 
 Now it has 1,300 employees, enough for the president, Gary Segal, to consider -- and decide against -- handing out coupons that could be redeemed at a supermarket. 
 ''I just thought it lost the personal touch,'' he said. ''I'd rather spend the extra money doing it in person. I'm spending time with all the drivers working overtime, but to me, it's worth it because it's that personal.'' 
 At Citi Field, the truck arrived in the morning, hours before quitting time, but some employees were prepared. Maria Hornung, an electrician, put a cooler in her car and stashed her turkey in it before she went back to work.
 Mr. Thomas said that when he heard about Five Star's turkeys, he thought of his mother, who had been having heart and lung problems. ''I called her and said, 'Don't even think of buying a turkey,' '' he recalled on Monday, turkey in hand. 
 And, given the uncertainty of the economy this year, he made an even bigger promise to her: ''If I get laid off, I'll buy you one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rich Addeo with a frozen turkey that his employer, Five Star Electric, gave him on Monday. The company has been handing out turkeys since its first year, 1959.
 Five Star Electric workers gathered at Citi Field in Queens to pick up their turkeys. Just 3 percent of employers nationwide plan to give them away this year, a survey found.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY J.B. REED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POULTRY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); FROZEN FOODS (89%); HISTORY (88%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (61%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (55%); BUREAU OF NATIONAL AFFAIRS INC (54%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); H (NYSE) (55%); UPS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (55%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (54%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1085 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: First World Said to Face Protracted Slowdown

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Developed economies face a protracted recession and a sharp increase in unemployment, the O.E.C.D. warned Tuesday, and it called for aggressive economic stimulus measures.
 Many advanced economies are in or nearing downturns of a magnitude not experienced since the early 1980s, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in its twice-yearly economic outlook. The organization includes European countries, the United States, Canada, Japan and Australia.
 Klaus Schmidt-Hebbel, the group's chief economist, warned in the report that the uncertainties associated with the forecasts were ''exceptionally large, especially those related to the assumptions regarding the speed at which the financial market crisis -- the prime driver of the downturn -- is overcome.'' 
 The O.E.C.D. projected that the economies of its 30 members would decline in 2009 by 0.4 percent over all, after growth of 1.4 percent this year. It forecast that growth would return in 2010, with advanced economies growing a combined 1.5 percent.
 The number of unemployed people in those countries could rise by 8 million over the next two years. Inflation would ease, it said, but some countries would face a small risk of deflation.
 The group also called on governments to take aggressive fiscal policy measures, as ''current conditions of extreme financial stress have weakened the monetary transmission mechanism.'' But it warned that once a recovery started to take hold, governments must ''begin promptly to unwind the macroeconomic stimulus in place to prevent inflationary pressures from gaining a foothold.''
 In the United States, President-elect Barack Obama has promised to rapidly enact a significant stimulus package. Governments in Britain, the European Continent, Japan and China have all announced efforts to stimulate growth. 
 The O.E.C.D. said the American economy would decline 0.9 percent next year, after posting growth of 1.8 percent this year. The economy will grow 1.6 percent in 2010, the organization said.
 The euro zone economy will shrink 0.6 percent next year, after a 3.4 percent increase in 2008, the organization said, with 1.3 percent growth in 2010. The organization warned that the housing correction in European markets appeared to have farther to go.
 Growth in Japan will remain just positive, rising 0.3 percent next year, after 1.4 percent growth this year, the forecast said, but the economy will shrink 0.1 percent in 2010. It warned that ''with persistent economic slack and anemic wage growth,'' deflation could return to Japan by mid-2009.
 The organization said the downturn would also be severe in Britain, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Spain and Turkey.
 While governments have helped to restore confidence and provide liquidity, the O.E.C.D. said that the flow of credit would be impaired as financial institutions reduced leverage and repaired their balance sheets, and that this would weigh on economic activity for some time.
 The organization said its forecasts were based on the assumption that ''the extreme financial stress since mid-September will be short-lived, but will be followed by an extended period of financial headwinds through late 2009, with a gradual normalization thereafter,'' and that exchange rates and the price of oil would remain at their recent levels.
 It said the main downside risks included the possibility that financial markets would remain under pressure and more financial institutions might fail, as well as a chance that emerging market economies would be hit harder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INFLATION (89%); DEFLATION (89%); EURO (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%); ICELAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1086 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: All Is Unusually Quiet On the Free-Agent Front

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

 BODY:
On Monday, Major League Baseball's daily transaction wire consisted of a small trade, one team's coaching selections and the release of a minor leaguer. If those moves constituted the full docket on a day in February, June or August, they would have hardly stood out. But because this meager amount of activity occurred more than a week into the free-agency period, when things should be hopping, it raised the question as to whether the nation's economic crisis is affecting baseball's marketplace. 
 Since Nov. 14, when teams were permitted to discuss contract terms with free agents, only 2 of the 171 players who filed for free agency have signed: Jeremy Affeldt, who went to San Francisco, and Ryan Dempster, whose decision to re-sign with the Chicago Cubs hardly came as a surprise. 
 Of course, slow days pop up in any free-agent period, and with the winter meetings nearly two weeks away, it is possible that some prominent free agents may soon make their choices, giving baseball some buzz. 
 Still, for the moment, it is pretty quiet on the baseball front. Unusually quiet, if free-agent moves that took place during the same period in recent off-seasons are considered. 
 A review of baseball's transaction history since 2001 showed that the only period featuring fewer signings in the first 12 days of open bidding than this year came in the 2002-3 off-season, when Jesse Orosco was the only free agent who had signed. Each of the last five free-agent off-seasons included at least six signings by this stage, led by the 2006 bonanza when Alfonso Soriano, Juan Pierre, Nomar Garciaparra, Gary Matthews Jr., Aramis Ramirez and Frank Thomas signed before Thanksgiving. 
 There is a similarly attractive group of free agents available this year -- C. C. Sabathia, Mark Teixeira, Manny Ramirez and Francisco Rodriguez, for starters -- but teams seem to be proceeding cautiously and dispensing fewer offers than in years past. 
 Some baseball executives have suggested that many teams, unsure of how long it will take for the economy to rebound, are reluctant to offer expensive multiyear deals. 
 It is unclear how well baseball is insulated from the country's economic troubles, but it is clear that people in the sport are concerned. Commissioner Bud Selig invited the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Paul Volcker, to speak to owners and executives last week. The Boston Red Sox, for the first time in 14 years, froze their regular-season ticket prices.
 In a more modest gesture, the Yankees on Tuesday announced that they would not raise ticket prices for spring training home games in Tampa, Fla., next March; those prices range from $17 to $31. (The ticket prices for the first season in the new Yankee Stadium are a different story.) The Red Sox said they would do the same for their 2009 spring-training games: tickets will remain in the $10 to $40 range. 
 Player agents and front-office executives often speak of the domino effect that occurs after the premium free agent at his position makes a decision. For instance, as soon as Sabathia, the most coveted starting pitcher, chooses where he will play for the next six or so years, interest in the other top starters -- A. J. Burnett, Derek Lowe, Oliver Perez and Ben Sheets -- should sort itself out.
 In what may be a hint that movement will accelerate soon, The Los Angeles Times reported Tuesday that the Los Angeles Angels, protecting themselves in case they cannot re-sign Teixeira, were contemplating a bid that would come close to, or perhaps match, the Yankees' six-year, $140 million offer to Sabathia. 
 In all likelihood, elite players like Sabathia and Teixeira will not be affected by the economy; they will sign lucrative contracts at some point regardless of how many bankruptcies occur. 
 Those who may feel the pinch more could be whoever is left, particularly if big-market teams, with an eye on the economy, draw a precise line on how much they will spend. In other words, drag things out as a free agent, and a player could miss out.
 It is for this reason that even an agent like Scott Boras, who is known for trying to play one team off another fairly deep into the off-season, may advise his clients to make a decision earlier than usual. Boras represents Teixeira, Manny Ramirez, Lowe, Perez, Jason Varitek and Ivan Rodriguez, among others. Perhaps they will all sign fairly soon. Or perhaps Boras will proceed as normal, and everything will take awhile.
 All that remains to be seen. What is clear is that baseball is very quiet right now. Maybe it's not the economy. Or maybe it is. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Closer Francisco Rodriguez, top, and starter A. J. Burnett are among the top free agents available this off-season. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MIKE CASSESE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); THANKSGIVING (65%); HOME PRICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); CHICAGO CUBS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (65%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1087 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; PRESERVING THE CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2001 words

HEADLINE: An Opaque and Lengthy Road To Landmark Building Status

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
For years, preservation advocates have pleaded with the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission to consider enlarging its protective mantle in Park Slope, one of Brooklyn's most scenic brownstone neighborhoods. In 2000 they proposed that the commission extend the 44-block Park Slope Historic District eastward and southward, preserving 19th-century residential architecture like the handsome houses on Garfield Place, with their two-sided bays and original stoop ironwork.
 The initial response was encouraging: in a June 2001 letter to the Historic Districts Council, the commission said, ''We will review the material and keep you informed of the process.'' 
 And then the preservationists waited. And waited. This month -- seven years later -- a State Supreme Court judge in Manhattan decided that they had waited long enough. 
 Ruling on a lawsuit filed in March against the landmarks commission's top officials by a preservationist coalition, the judge called the agency's inaction ''arbitrary and capricious'' and ordered it to start making timely decisions on every designation request. To allow such proposals ''to languish is to defeat the very purpose of the L.P.C. and invite the loss of irreplaceable landmarks,'' the judge, Marilyn Shafer, wrote. 
 The city says it will appeal. Still, the ruling was a significant victory for preservationists and politicians across the city who have long accused the commission of lacking the responsiveness and accountability that citizens expect from a watchdog of the city's architectural history. 
 A six-month examination of the commission's operations by The New York Times reveals an overtaxed agency that has taken years to act on some proposed designations, even as soaring development pressures put historic buildings at risk. Its decision-making is often opaque, and its record-keeping on landmark-designation requests is so spotty that staff members are uncertain how many it rejects in a given year. 
 In dozens of interviews, residents who have proposed historic buildings or districts for consideration said they were often stonewalled by the commission, receiving formulaic responses or sometimes no response at all. 
 ''The openness and transparency -- particularly in terms of requests -- is a big issue among preservationists,'' said Peg Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy, an advocacy group. 
 ''I think what people would welcome is something that said, 'We looked at this and it's been too altered,' or, 'We looked at this and we find it a third-tier example of this architect's work,' '' she said. ''Something that gave people more to go on.''
 In an interview, Robert B. Tierney, who has been the commission's chairman for five years, said he was proud of its accomplishments during his tenure. ''It's been a superb record and a lot has been done,'' he said. He cited the creation of historic districts like the Gansevoort meatpacking area, despite enormous opposition from developers, and designations outside Manhattan, like Sunnyside Gardens in Queens.
 To be sure, in the four decades since the leveling of Pennsylvania Station stirred a movement that led to the agency's founding, the commission has granted protection to everything from row houses to skyscrapers to entire neighborhoods. (And the city's economic downturn will no doubt ease some of the pressure to raze old buildings and build anew.)
 In fiscal year 2007, with one of the smallest budgets of any city agency, the commission designated 22 individual structures, 3 historic districts and 3 interiors as landmarks, for a total of 1,158 buildings -- the most since 1990. But dozens of cases seem to vanish into a black hole, critics say. 
 In 1998, for example, preservationists requested that the commission consider granting landmark status to Tiffany's, the storied polished-granite building at Fifth Avenue and 57th Street in Manhattan. The commission replied in a letter that it would take the 1940 building ''under consideration,'' said John Jurayj, co-chairman of a preservationist alliance known as the Modern Architecture Working Group. (He also serves on the Citizens Emergency Committee to Preserve Preservation, which filed the lawsuit.) 
 Three years passed with no further word from the commission. In 2001 the group resubmitted its request and was told that the commission's designation committee found it potentially eligible. But no action was taken. ''It's now nine years later and nothing has happened,'' Mr. Jurayj said.
 On some occasions the commission has taken so long to act that the building in question has been demolished or irretrievably altered. 
 In July 2007, the preservationist group Friends of the Upper East Side, concerned that the scale and charm of upper Lexington Avenue were being eroded by development, met with Mr. Tierney, the commission's chairman, to request an extension of the Upper East Side Historic District. Among the buildings they wanted protected was the Kean residence at Lexington Avenue and East 65th Street, originally built as two brownstones in 1880 but transformed in 1922 into a Mediterranean-style stucco house with rusticated detailing, leaded glass windows and a double-height music studio. 
 For months there was no formal reply from the commission. Then in March, a letter arrived. ''Staff will review the material and keep you informed of the process,'' it promised.
 Worried that time was running out, the group filed a request in June that the house itself receive landmark status. The same month, the building's owners applied for permits to start work on the house. Scaffolding went up, and the building's leaded glass windows were removed along with its carved doors, leaving boarded-up holes. 
 In July, said Seri Worden, executive director of Friends of the Upper East Side, a commission staff member told her that ''the Kean house was ineligible, partly due to demo permits.'' 
 Asked about the construction work at the Kean residence, Mr. Tierney said that a survey was under way on the Upper East Side after talks about extending the historic district. ''Oftentimes when the complaint is made, it's because they haven't gotten a yes,'' Mr. Tierney said. ''We set priorities and we can't survey the entire city based on all the requests we get.'' 
 Among the pleas submitted for which no public hearing was held are the Beekman movie theater on the Upper East Side, a 1952 Streamline Moderne design that was demolished in 2005 Mott House in Rockaway, Queens, an 1800s mansion in the Greek Revival style that was torn down in 2004; the Donnell Library Center on West 53rd Street in Manhattan, which is to be demolished to make way for a hotel; and Edward Durell Stone's 1964 ''lollipop'' building at 2 Columbus Circle, which reopened in September as the Museum of Art and Design after a radical alteration that was fiercely opposed by preservationists. 
 Both Justice Shafer's decision and a bill circulating in the City Council would require that the commission make decisions on any formal nomination of a landmark, known as a Request for Evaluation or R.F.E., in a timely fashion. In her ruling, Justice Shafer also ordered that any request for designation be submitted to the commission's request committee within 120 days of receipt. 
 But the commission is opposed to setting deadlines. In its formal response to the lawsuit, the commission said that if it were required to respond to each Request for Evaluation, ''the agency would not be able to set and pursue its own priorities and would spend all of its time researching and pursuing R.F.E.'s, many of which are of questionable or marginal significance.'' Defenders and detractors alike agree that, with 16 researchers, the commission does not have the manpower to accede to that demand. 
 Yet in 2007 Mr. Tierney declined a budget increase of $750,000 approved by the City Council; instead the commission ended up getting an increase of just $50,000 for a total Council allocation of $300,000. (The current budget is $4.7 million.)
 Mr. Tierney said that he didn't want to add staff members that he might not be able to keep beyond a year, should the budget subsequently be cut back. ''One-shots in an agency of this size is not good government,'' he said.
 Preservationists say the larger issue is the manner in which Requests for Evaluation are handled at the agency. Currently they are funneled through the commission's staff and Mr. Tierney, a former counsel to Mayor Edward I. Koch, who was appointed in 2003 despite having no background in architecture, planning or historic preservation. (Mr. Tierney, whose second three-year term ends in June 2010, earns an annual city salary of $177,698; the other commissioners are unpaid.)
 Mr. Tierney and the staff decide what proposals should be forwarded to the 11 commissioners -- by law they include at least three architects, one historian, one city planner or landscape architect, one real estate agent and one resident of each of the five boroughs -- for informal consideration. ''All the final calls are his,'' said Donald Presa, a commission researcher.
 At hearings, the commissioners hear public testimony and ultimately take a vote. The majority rules.
 In its lawsuit, Citizens Emergency assailed what it describes as the chairman's ''absolute power'' over the landmark process.
 ''He's a guy who's had no demonstrable interest in historic preservation, who has the most important preservation job in New York City,'' said Anthony C. Wood, author of ''Preserving New York: Winning the Right to Protect a City's Landmarks'' (Routledge, 2008), and a party to the suit.
 Also troubling to critics is the fact that the commission does not document the resolution of each nomination or even quantify how many it defers or rejects. Asked how many Requests for Evaluation they received in the last fiscal year, commission officials said they fielded roughly 200 in addition to nominations generated by the agency itself and its neighborhood surveys. They add that about one quarter never reach the commissioners (other than Mr. Tierney).
 Mr. Tierney conceded that record-keeping was inadequate and said that a new $1.5 million project would allow the commission to create a new information database to better track the disposition of requests. ''It's going to be addressed,'' he said, adding, ''The large data integration system will, I believe, dispense with all these problems.'' 
 The commission also points out that the bulk of its time is taken up with whether to approve alterations to existing landmarks. A homeowner may want to install modern double-hung windows in a landmarked Art Deco building, for example. The number of applications for such alterations has more than doubled from 3,914 in fiscal year 1990 to 10,106 in fiscal 2008. 
 In a practice that ended in 2004, a designation committee consisting of a group of commissioners once evaluated proposals and recommended which ones should be forwarded to the full commission for consideration at a public hearing. In something of a paradox, the committee was abolished after it was challenged by the Historic Districts Council, which argued that its closed-door meetings violated the Open Meetings Law. 
 Preservation advocates argue that the members are now at a remove from vital decisions about what comes before them. ''The culture of the commission has changed so much from a body where commissioners were allowed to be independent voices,'' Mr. Wood said.
 Even some commissioners say they feel they have become too distanced from citizens' requests for evaluation. ''If every discussion about what should be designated were at an open hearing, it would be untenable,'' said Stephen F. Byrns, an architect on the commission. 
 Still, he added, ''we used to be more involved with designation. Now, the research staff calendars it, and we hear it and designate it. The critical and probably political thinking that goes on prior to that is something we're not involved with.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARK SLOPE: To protect brownstones, preservationists want the historic district expanded.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FISH BUILDING: Still no word on a 1937 Bronx structure known for this aquatic mural.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TIFFANY'S: Awaiting consideration nine years after a request from preservationists.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DONNELL LIBRARY: A popular Midtown space that is to be razed to make way for a hotel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BEEKMAN THEATER: This 1952 Streamline Moderne cinema was demolished in 2005.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE LANDMARKS CHAIRMAN: ''We set priorities and we can't survey the entire city based on all the requests we get,'' says Robert B. Tierney, chairman of the landmarks commission.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
KEAN RESIDENCE: Right, the Upper East Side structure in 1944. A request that it win protection did not prevent workers from stripping elements this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)
 A VICTORY: Members of the Citizens Emergency Committee to Preserve Preservation, which sued landmarks officials over delays in considering buildings for landmark status. A State Supreme Court judge has ruled in the group's favor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (91%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); INTERVIEWS (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); JUDGES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); APPEALS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1088 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans $800 Billion in Lending to Ease Crisis

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve and the Treasury announced $800 billion in new lending programs on Tuesday, sending a message that they would print as much money as needed to revive the nation's crippled banking system.
 The gargantuan efforts -- one to finance loans for consumers, and a bigger one to push down home mortgage rates -- were the latest but probably not the last of the federal government's initiatives to absorb the shocks that began with losses on subprime mortgages and have spread to every corner of the economy. 
 In the last year, the government has assumed about $7.8 trillion in direct and indirect financial obligations. That is equal to about half the size of the nation's entire economy and far eclipses the $700 billion that Congress authorized for the Treasury's financial rescue plan. 
 Those obligations include about $1.4 trillion that has already been committed to loans, capital infusions to banks and the rescues of firms like Bear Stearns and the American International Group, the troubled insurance conglomerate. But they also include additional trillions in government guarantees on mortgages, bank deposits, commercial loans and money market funds. 
 The mortgage markets were electrified by the Fed's announcement that it would swoop in and buy up to $600 billion in debt tied to mortgages guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages fell almost a full percentage point, to 5.5 percent, from 6.3 percent. 
 But analysts said the program would do little to reduce the tidal wave of foreclosures. That is because most of the foreclosures are on subprime mortgages and other high-risk loans that were not bought or guaranteed by government-sponsored finance companies like Fannie Mae.
 Stock investors reacted coolly to the announcements. The major stock indexes initially fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index later edged up, closing at 857.39, up 0.66 percent. The Nasdaq closed down 0.5 percent, at 1,464.73.
 The long-term risks are enormous but difficult to estimate. They begin with the danger of a new surge of inflation, at least after the economy comes out of its current downturn. Beyond that, taxpayers will have to pick up the losses from loans that default or guarantees that have to be made good. 
 But the most troublesome unknowns are how the maze of protections for investors and consumers will change economic and political behavior in the future.
 ''The Federal Reserve has a lot of levers of influence with consequences for individual industries,'' said Vincent R. Reinhart, a former Fed official and now a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. ''Now that it has used those levers, don't you think Congress will want it to start using them again? The Fed could become the go-to place for bailouts.'' 
 Administration and central bank officials contend that the risk of doing nothing is a full-blown depression in which unemployment climbs above 10 percent and the country needs years to recover. Many private economists agree.
 ''They are doing whatever it takes,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor who is now vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, an economic forecasting firm. ''The problem is, the more you go in this direction, the harder it is to turn around and the harder your exit strategy is.''
 Most economists agree that the United States is in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, and that it has already fallen into a severe recession that is likely to be one of the deepest in decades.
 ''What they are doing is trying to limit the damage to something consistent with a severe postwar recession, but not something worse than that,'' Mr. Meyer said.
 Indeed, the government reported on Tuesday that the economy contracted by 0.5 percent in the third quarter, slightly worse than previously estimated. But private forecasters predict that economic activity will fall by 4 to 5 percent in the fourth quarter and continue to contract for much of next year.
 In the first of two new actions announced on Tuesday, the Treasury and the Fed said they would create a $200 billion program to lend money against securities backed by car loans, student loans, credit card debt and even small-business loans.
 The Treasury would contribute $20 billion to the so-called Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility and assume responsibility for any losses up to $20 billion. The Federal Reserve would lend the new entity as much as $180 billion.
 The new facility would then lend money at low rates to companies that post collateral based on securities backed by consumer debt or business loans. The new program would be allowed to accept only securities with Triple-A ratings, the highest possible, from at least two rating agencies.
 The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., made it clear that the new lending facility was just a ''starting point'' and could be expanded to many other kinds of debt, like commercial mortgage-backed securities. ''It's going to take awhile to get this program up and going, and then it could be expanded and increased over time,'' he said at a news conference. 
 Separately, the central bank announced that it would try to force down home mortgage rates by buying up $600 billion in debt tied to home loans guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other government-controlled financing companies.
 The actions on Tuesday represented two milestones in the government's expansion into private markets.
 It was the first time that the Fed and the Treasury have stepped in to finance consumer debt. The $200 billion program comes close to being a government bank.
 But the new programs also represented a new level of commitment by the Federal Reserve. Instead of trying to strengthen the economy by reducing short-term rates, which is the usual policy tool, the Fed is now pumping vast amounts of money directly into specific markets for mortgages -- and anything else it believes needs help.
 Over the last year, the Fed and the Treasury have bailed out major Wall Street firms, rescued the world's biggest insurer, taken over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and guaranteed hundreds of billions of dollars in bank transactions.
 As big as the two new lending programs are, Mr. Meyer cautioned that they were only going to reduce the pain that lies ahead, not eliminate it. Unemployment, at 6.5 percent in October, is still likely to climb to 7.5 or even 8 percent next year, he predicted. But it may not shoot up to 9 or 10 percent, a level that economists often consider the unofficial dividing line between a recession and a depression.
 The new actions are unlikely to be the last. Until the economy begins to turn around, Fed officials have made it clear they are prepared to print as much money as needed to jump-start lending, consumer spending, home buying and investment.
 ''They are using every tool at their disposal, and they will move from credit market to credit market to reduce disruptions,'' said Richard Berner, chief economist at Morgan Stanley.
 The Federal Reserve has now moved to a radical new phase of its effort to shore up the economy. Until now, it has carefully distinguished between two goals -- reducing the panic and turmoil in financial markets, and propping up the economy itself, which has been battered as the supply of credit has dried up.
 To tackle the first goal, the Fed expanded its lending programs to banks and Wall Street firms, and organized the rescue of failing firms like Bear Stearns. 
 To bolster the general economy, it relied on its traditional tool: reducing the overnight Federal funds rate, the interest rate that banks charge for lending their reserves to one another. Normally, a lower Federal funds rates leads to lower long-term rates, like those for mortgages.
 But the central bank has already lowered the rate to 1 percent, and it cannot reduce it below zero. Instead, policy makers are buying up other kinds of debt securities, which has the effect of driving down the rates in those parts of the market.
 The move amounts to what economists refer to as ''quantitative easing,'' which means having the Fed pump staggering amounts of money into the economy by buying up a wide range of debt instruments.
 In a conference call with reporters, Fed officials insisted their goal was not to pursue a policy of quantitative easing, but simply to unfreeze the mortgage market.
 But for practical purposes, the actions lead to similar results.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The stock markets closed higher after new financial recovery plans were announced on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, at a news conference on Tuesday. He called a new program a ''starting point.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A20) CHARTS: Tracking the Bailout: The Government's Commitments: As the financial crisis has spread, the government's commitments have grown and it has assumed different roles, acting as an insurer, an investor or a banker. So far, the government has spent almost $1.4 trillion, although it has guaranteed almost $8 trillion in investments, deposits and loans. That figure does not include $755 billion in currency swaps with central banks in other countries, nor does it include some lending programs for financial institutions whose cost is not quantified.(Sources: Federal Reserve
Treasury Department)
What the Latest $800 Billion Is For: On Tuesday, the Treasury and the Federal Reserve announced two more programs worth a combined $800 billion. The money is aimed at helping the mortgage and consumer loan markets.(Sources: Treasury Department
 Federal Reserve) Chart details prices. (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1089 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Monetary Fund Approves $7.6 Billion Loan to Pakistan

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund approved a $7.6 billion loan for Pakistan on Tuesday to prevent it from defaulting on its debt and to help stabilize its economy.
 The loan, under discussion for more than a month, at first met strong resistance from the Pakistani government, which sought money on more generous terms from other countries. 
 But Pakistan's major allies -- the United States, China and Saudi Arabia -- insisted that it accept the loan and the I.M.F. conditions before they offered assistance.
 Those donors, worried about the crumbling economy and the escalating instability from Taliban insurgents, have declined pleas by Pakistan's senior politicians, including President Asif Ali Zardari, for quick infusions of cash with no strings attached.
 The acceptance of the I.M.F. loan will raise the confidence of foreign and domestic investors, and the major donors are now expected to be reasonably generous, Pakistani economists said.
 As a sign of the concern about the poor state of the economy at a time of increasing pressure from Taliban militants, the leader of United States Central Command, Gen. David H. Petraeus, met with officials at the recent annual meeting of the I.M.F. in Washington.
 Pakistan would get immediate access to about $3.1 billion, and the rest would be released based on quarterly reviews, the fund said in a statement.
 Explaining the need for the loan, Takatoshi Kato, the deputy managing director and acting chairman of the board that gave the formal approval, said, ''The Pakistani economy was buffeted by large shocks during fiscal year 2007-08, including adverse security developments, higher oil and food import prices, and the global financial turmoil.''
 Mr. Kato said the budget deficit had ballooned because the government had delayed passing higher prices to domestic consumers. He said the central bank's financing of the deficit increased inflation and precipitously reduced hard currency reserves.
 Reserves held by the central bank declined to $3.4 billion in the week ending Nov. 15, a 75 percent drop in 12 months, and barely enough to pay for one month of imports.
 The fund said Tuesday that it expected Pakistan's economic growth to slow to 3.4 percent in the current fiscal year, which began July 1, from 5.8 percent the previous year. The fund said that it expected the budget deficit to drop to 4.2 percent of gross domestic product in the current fiscal year, from 7.4 percent the previous year.
 ''The reduction will be achieved primarily by phasing out energy subsidies, better prioritizing development spending, and implementing tax policy and tax administration reforms,'' Mr. Kato said.
 The State Bank of Pakistan raised its benchmark interest rate to 15 percent from 13 percent this month, and would ''further tighten monetary policy as needed,'' the fund said.
 Inflation has soared in the past few months to 25 percent, leaving low income earners and the jobless struggling to buy staples.
 The I.M.F. conditions include a demand that the government increase tax rates, among the world's lowest. The fund wants an increase in agriculture taxes -- a move that members of Parliament, many of them landowners, have opposed for decades.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beggars in Lahore, Pakistan, are among the jobless and working poor people hard-pressed by inflation of 25 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TALIBAN (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); IMPORT PRICES (68%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); CURRENCIES (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); TAX LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1090 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words

 BODY:
$800 BILLION IN LOANS The Treasury Department announced new efforts to revive the economy -- one to finance loans for consumers and a bigger one to lower mortgage rates. 
 MAKING SACRIFICES Nearly everyone is forgoing indulgences in the economic downturn, but figures suggest the burden is falling most heavily on women, particularly mothers. [A1.]
 NO PAYCHECK Three former top executives who oversaw losses on subprime-related investments at the Swiss banking giant UBS said that they would give up $27.6 million in compensation. [B1.]
 DIGITAL MILESTONE Atlantic Records says that more than half of its music sales in the United States are now from digital products, like MP3 downloads and cellphone ring tones. [B1.]
 EXTREME MAKEOVER Morgan Stanley is trying to figure out where to go after transforming itself into a bank holding company, a metamorphosis that is emblematic of the shifts reshaping the landscape of American finance. [B1.]
 ENDOWMENTS SUFFER As the value of some of their investments has fallen, some of the nation's universities are trying to sell parts of their portfolios. [B1.]
 THE INSIDE MAN When Barack Obama named Lawrence Summers, below, as his lead economic adviser inside the White House, he chose ''a thought leader'' whom other economists and policy makers call when they have questions. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [B1.]
 SLOWDOWN IN CHINA The global downturn is reaching China's industrial transformation, stalling dozens of multibillion-dollar investment projects. [B1.]
 GLOBAL RECESSION An international economic group warned that many industrialized nations faced their worst economic downturn since the early 1980s. [B3.]
 BHP ENDS BID BHP Billiton abandoned its yearlong pursuit of Rio Tinto, blaming the derailment on the decline in commodity prices and the credit squeeze. [B3.]
 CARPOOL A group of auto dealers, suppliers and union workers are planning to drive a caravan of American vehicles to Washington to press lawmakers to rescue the industry.[B4.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (83%); BHP BILLITON PLC (81%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); RIO TINTO GROUP (53%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (83%); UBS (NYSE) (83%); BLT (LSE) (81%); BIBLT (JSE) (81%); BBL (NYSE) (81%); MS (NYSE) (58%); RIOS (BRU) (53%); RIO (NYSE) (53%); RIO (LSE) (53%); RIO (ASX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (81%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (81%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (53%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (53%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (53%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1091 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY COMPILED BY DAVE ITZKOFF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1148 words

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
New Guare Play Is Postponed
 The Public Theater's much-anticipated production of ''A Free Man of Color,'' a new play by John Guare, right, won't be mounted this season after all. Citing the tightening economy and a loss of financing, the theater said it was postponing the play, which was scheduled to open in the winter. A hybrid of history and sex farce under the direction of George C. Wolfe, it would have starred Mos Defand Jeffrey Wright mixing it up in 1802 New Orleans with Napoleon and Thomas Jefferson. In a statement, Oskar Eustis, the artistic director of the Public, said, ''This is a tough and disappointing decision, but one we made with great thought and care, and one that will ensure the Public's health and stability.'' The theater said that it still planned to present the show next season.
 Lawyer Sentenced 
 In Pellicano Case 
 Terry N. Christensen, the Hollywood lawyer who represented many studios and executives, was sentenced on Monday to three years in prison on charges of conspiracy to commit wiretapping and aiding and abetting a wiretap, The Associated Press reported. In 2002 Mr. Christensen was representing the billionaire Kirk Kerkorian in a legal battle against Mr. Kerkorian's ex-wife, Lisa Bonder Kerkorian. At that time, a jury found, Mr. Christensen hired the private investigator Anthony Pellicano to tap Ms. Bonder Kerkorian's telephone illegally. Mr. Christensen remains free pending an appeal. In May Mr. Pellicano was found guilty of 76 charges related to racketeering and unlawful wiretaps, and is awaiting sentencing.
 'Inishmaan' Revival Brings Irish Cast
 The Atlantic Theater Company's revival of the Martin McDonagh play ''The Cripple of Inishmaan,'' which opened in Dublin and toured Britain this fall, will come to New York with its full Irish cast intact, the producers announced. The production, directed by Garry Hynes (whose Druid Theater Company is co-producing), will feature Aaron Monaghan as the title character and Kerry Condon (of the recent Atlantic Theater Company production of Mr. McDonagh's ''Lieutenant of Inishmore'') as the desirable Slippy Helen. The cast also includes Marie Mullen (a Tony Award winner for ''The Beauty Queen of Leenane''), Dearbhla Molloy, Andrew Connolly (also of ''Inishmore'') and Patricia O'Connell. ''The Cripple of Inishmaan'' will begin previews Dec. 9 at the Linda Gross Theater, and run through Feb. 1.
 Plugging In a Tenor
 There is an honorable tradition in opera of singers relying on a prompter to provide cues for words or entrances. But during rehearsals for the Metropolitan Opera's production of Wagner's ''Tristan und Isolde,'' which opens on Friday night, the German tenor singing Tristan, Peter Seiffert, has been using a personal electronic prompter: an earpiece through which he can hear the cues directly. The only previous time a performer at the Met has used such a device came last season in a speaking role for the new production of Donizetti's ''Fille du Regiment.'' Mr. Seiffert has sung several major Wagner roles to acclaim, including Tannhauser for his Met debut in 2004. When he sang Tristan in Berlin two years ago he also used an earpiece. A Met official said yesterday that Mr. Seiffert was still deciding whether to use the earpiece on Friday, when the conductor Daniel Barenboim would be making his Met debut. ANTHONY TOMMASINI 
 Winehouse in Hospital
 The musician Amy Winehouse, below, has sought treatment at a London clinic after suffering an adverse reaction to a medication, The Associated Press reported. Chris Goodman, a spokesman for Ms. Winehouse, told The Associated Press that Ms. Winehouse, 25, had been admitted on Sunday, but declined to identify the medication that caused the reaction. Ms. Winehouse, who has a history of drug problems, has been hospitalized several times this year: in June, she was admitted to a London clinic after collapsing at her home, and in July she was hospitalized, also for a reaction to medication. Her husband, Blake Fielder-Civil, was recently released from prison and is now in a drug-rehabilitation program.
 Velvet Revolver Leaves Its Record Label
 In an eerie reversal of fortune, it is now better to be Axl Rose than to be any of his former Guns N' Roses bandmates. On Tuesday the band Velvet Revolver, whose membership includes the Guns N' Roses refugees Slash, above right, Duff McKagan and Matt Sorum, announced that it had parted ways with RCA Records, which had released its two studio albums; the band had asked in June to be released from its contract. Velvet Revolver also has no lead singer: in April it dismissed Scott Weiland, above left, of the Stone Temple Pilots. On Sunday Guns N' Roses released the album ''Chinese Democracy,'' whose 17-year production process had contributed to the departure of Mr. Rose's bandmates.
 Koppel's Deal With Discovery Ends Early
 Ted Koppel's production deal with the Discovery Channel is ending six months before his contract was to expire, the two parties announced on Tuesday. Mr. Koppel, suggested that Discovery's shift away from news content created a split between him and that channel's new management. Shortly after Mr. Koppel left ABC's ''Nightline'' in 2005, he signed a three-year deal with Discovery that would have expired in May 2009. His production company, the Koppel Group, delivered 15 hours of documentaries to Discovery. In a statement the cable channel said the decision to dissolve the contract came as it was emphasizing ''non-news content that has longer shelf life and appeal to audiences around the world.'' Mr. Koppel, above, left, remains a senior news analyst for National Public Radio and a contributor to ''BBC World News America.'' BRIAN STELTER 
 Feeling Like 'Dancing'
 ABC's ''Dancing With the Stars'' continued to dominate the ratings on Monday, earning an average audience of 21.3 million, according to Nielsen's estimates. No other show on the night came close, a fact that lifted ABC to first place overall. CBS was runner-up, finishing No. 1 among adults 18 to 49, delivering the night's top ratings in that age group with ''Two and a Half Men'' (which drew 14.9 million total viewers). CBS's other comedies also fared well: ''The Big Bang Theory'' with 10.2 million, and ''How I Met Your Mother'' with 10 million. CBS's ''CSI: Miami,'' at 14.1 million viewers, finished ahead of ABC's ''Boston Legal'' (8.7 million) and NBC's ''My Own Worst Enemy'' (4.2 million). NBC was third overall with ''Chuck'' (6.6 million) and ''Heroes'' (7.8 million). BENJAMIN TOFF 
 Footnote
 Disney has announced a limited-time offer of free children's tickets to its Broadway productions of ''The Lion King,'' ''Mary Poppins'' and ''The Little Mermaid.'' From Monday through Dec. 12, ticket buyers can receive one free child's admission (18 and under) with each purchase of a full-priced ticket for shows between Jan. 6 and March 13.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); OPERA (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); WIRETAPPING (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); JURY TRIALS (73%); VERDICTS (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); CONSPIRACY (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (60%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008



1092 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LAKERS 120, NETS 93; Pg. 

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Nets' Dynamic Backcourt Is Not Enough as Lakers Coast to Victory

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Devin Harris looked at himself. Vince Carter did the same. 
 The self-inspection was not during a game, where the twosome is quietly but steadily blossoming as one of the N.B.A.'s most productive backcourts; it was after the Nets' wilted badly in a 120-93 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers at Staples Center Tuesday evening to open their annual Thanksgiving road trip. 
 Harris blamed himself, saying that he started a trend that snowballed into the Nets settling for jump shots. Carter said he did not provide enough energy. 
 Whatever was the cause of the deflation, the result is that the Nets (6-7) slipped below .500 and a missed chance to take advantage of a rare off night from Kobe Bryant. 
 ''I think we played a decent first half of basketball and then our energy, effort intensity whatever word you choose to use, just left the building,'' Carter said. ''It's unacceptable. Of course, it starts with me. I have to bring the energy, provide the energy or scoring.''
 On some nights, Harris and Carter are enough to carry the team. On other nights, they are not enough against the league's elite. 
 The Lakers are in that category, using their length to stymie the Nets, using their deep bench to eventually overwhelm them. 
 Inside the paint, where many games are won through grit and toughness, the youthful Nets were pummeled by another formidable tandem, the Lakers' frontcourt of Pau Gasol and Andrew Bynum. 
 That was an area in which the Lakers, who were humbled in last year's N.B.A. finals against the Boston Celtics, vowed to improve. They are showing signs of doing that in the early season. 
 With Bryant struggling to locate the bottom of the basket much of the night, Gasol ended with 26 points and 8 rebounds. Bynum contributed 15 points and 6 rebounds. 
 The Nets' rookie center Brook Lopez pieced together a double-double with 17 points and 10 rebounds, but his teammates gave him little help.
 Carter and Harris, both among the league's top 10 scorers, combined to make only 10 of their 27 shots. Harris had a team-high 21 points, while Carter scored 14. The Nets' bench was outscored by 56-19. 
 With the win, the Lakers improved to 12-1. Their lone hiccup came at home against the Detroit Pistons. 
 ''We did a good job defensively,'' Bryant said. ''The first half, we were a little shaky, but the second half was much better.''
 It was in the second half, where the Nets joined in Bryant's misfiring. Of 42 second-half shots, the Nets converted just 9. 
 ''That's why it's 48 minutes,'' Nets Coach Lawrence Frank said. ''We're not going to win many games shooting the way we did, then compounding it with poor defense.''
 Bryant made only 5 of 17 shots for 12 points. He sat on the bench for the fourth quarter. 
 For every first-half run the Lakers piled together, the Nets wobbled, but composed themselves. Harris tallied 14 of his points in the second quarter and the Nets trailed by only 56-54 at the half. 
 Bryant missed his first five shots, then surfaced for a ferocious dunk. Out of sorts, he appeared content to let Gasol pave the route to victory. 
 ''I think it's a healthy sign, but you want Kobe shooting the ball well and have good games offensively,'' Lakers Coach Phil Jackson said. ''Obviously, that's the focal point of our offense, is to get things through him and have him be the threat that everyone has to overplay and to be always concerned with him because that makes everyone else have an easier game.''
 That was not the recipe Tuesday, with Bryant's sidekicks emerging. The Nets, though, will have little time to dwell on the loss. With their young frontcourt gaining another learning experience, they head to Sacramento to play the Kings on Wednesday night. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); THANKSGIVING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1093 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: The Return Of Larry Summers

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 A few weeks ago, I called a well-known economist with a question about the financial crisis. ''I hope the only reason you're calling me,'' he said, ''is that you couldn't reach Larry.''
 Larry would be Lawrence Summers, the intellectually fierce economist whom Barack Obama named this week as his lead economic adviser inside the White House. Until recently, it would have been hard to imagine Mr. Summers -- who held a higher-ranking job in the Clinton administration and was very publicly forced out as the president of Harvard only two years ago -- in this particular job. 
 Yet there he was at a news conference on Monday, standing just over Mr. Obama's left shoulder. And the comment made by that well-known economist goes a long way toward explaining why. 
 Over the last two years, Mr. Summers has carved out a role unlike anyone else's in the Democratic Party. He has been something of a shadow economic minister, laying out in real time how a Democratic administration would have responded to the financial crisis. When other economists and policy makers have questions, they often call Mr. Summers. 
 He is also the centrist who has made it safe for other centrist Democrats to move to the left. Both times I've interviewed Mr. Obama this year, he has brought up Mr. Summers, unbidden, and pointed out that Mr. Summers was now writing a lot more about the plight of the middle class than about budget deficits. At Monday's news conference, Mr. Obama called him ''a thought leader.''
 Below is an issue-by-issue guide to Mr. Summers. Before we get to it, though, there is a broader point.
 Years ago, Henry Kissinger suggested that Mr. Summers be given a White House post in which he was charged with shooting down or fixing bad ideas. Mr. Summers's loyal proteges -- Timothy Geithner, who beat him out to become the next Treasury secretary; Peter Orszag, the next budget director; Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook; and others -- say that Mr. Summers can make them smarter in ways that almost no else can.
 ''I find that five minutes of talking to Larry is often more valuable than an hour of talking to someone else,'' Mr. Geithner says.
 But Mr. Summers also has a habit of alienating some people who could have been his allies. His ill-considered, though also sometimes exaggerated, remarks about women and science are the best-known example. (For more on what he did say, go to nytimes.com/economix.) 
 If he can avoid such mistakes -- and be careful to criticize ideas rather than people -- he may find himself ideally suited to the moment. The stakes are clearly huge. And given that the Obama administration is planning to spend $600 billion or so stimulating the economy over the next two years, some less-than-great ideas will doubtless be making the rounds. 
 On to the issues: 
 THE FINANCIAL CRISIS Back in December 2007, when officials at the Federal Reserve and in the Bush administration were saying a recession was unlikely, Mr. Summers gave a speech with a different forecast. He said that it was ''distinctly possible we're headed into a period of the worst economic performance since the stagflation of the late 1970s and recessions of the early 1980s.'' More recently, he predicted that the financial markets wouldn't return to normal for a long time. 
 Expect him to urge Mr. Obama to be aggressive and creative in trying to jump-start lending -- and to avoid the rosy predictions that have made the Bush administration appear to be out of touch. Mr. Summers likes to say that there is no silver bullet. He is instead likely to argue for trying many different things and erring on the side of overreaction. 
 (One example: Unlike many Democrats, he is a longtime critic of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Yet he still says they need to get even bigger during the crisis, to keep mortgage lending flowing.) 
 The lesson of the Depression and of Japan's ''lost decade,'' Mr. Summers says, is that governments facing a credit squeeze are usually too meek. If you wait to take radical action, like the new $800 billion program to promote lending, until it seems unavoidable, you have usually waited too long. 
 INEQUALITY Mr. Summers has spent much of his career tweaking fellow liberals with arguments he considers unpleasant truths -- on the dangers of budget deficits, the benefits of capitalism and other subjects. But he seems to have decided that conservative orthodoxies have become a vastly bigger threat to good economic policy than liberal ones. His favorite argument today is one that instead drives some conservatives nuts. 
 It goes like this: To undo the rise in income inequality since the late '70s, every household in the top 1 percent of the distribution, which makes $1.7 million on average, would need to write a check for $800,000. This money could then be pooled and used to send out a $10,000 check to every household in the bottom 80 percent of the distribution, those making less than $120,000. Only then would the country be as economically equal as it was three decades ago.
 The lack of middle-class income growth during that span is ''the defining issue of our time,'' Mr. Summers has said, in a tacit admission that liberals were ahead of him on this issue. He is likely to be front and center in Mr. Obama's push to reduce taxes on the middle class and create good jobs. Mr. Summers may also push the administration to work with foreign governments to crack down on tax shelters. 
 REGULATION On this topic, he still sounds like a centrist Democrat. As Treasury secretary starting in 1999, he shepherded a couple of bills that helped deregulate financial markets, and he has made it clear that he doesn't buy the notion that these laws caused the financial crisis. 
 I wish he and other Clinton administration alumni were a bit more introspective about what they might have done differently. But they are fundamentally right that the deregulation of the 1990s does not deserve the Garden of Eden status that is sometimes ascribed to it. Trading of derivatives, to take one example, began to soar well before a law was passed in 2000 that clarified some of the legal questions about them.
 The more relevant question is how Mr. Summers will advise Mr. Obama to rewrite the regulatory framework once the immediate crisis lifts. And Mr. Summers is likely to support big changes. He has said any system that created the Mexican peso crisis, the Asian financial crisis and the current troubles needs to be changed.
 One theme is that banking regulators shouldn't try to prevent the failure of individual firms. They won't succeed. They should instead write rules to contain the damage caused by any failure. 
 So Mr. Summers favors tighter rules on how much debt financial firms can take on. The more debt a firm takes on, the more lenders it leaves holding the bag -- and the greater the consequences for the entire system. That helps explain the earthquakes caused by Lehman Brothers.
 THE LONG-TERM ISSUES The best way to describe Mr. Summers may be to call him a skeptical aggressor. He is skeptical of any argument that's presented as inherently obvious. But once he is persuaded, he tends to go for big, bold solutions.
 Before he joined the Obama team, he said that the logical next step for health care was an expansion of employer-based insurance (as Mr. Obama has proposed) -- but in the end, the employer-based system would probably fall apart and the government would need to insure people. He thinks schools and teachers aren't accountable enough for their performance -- but the huge inequities in school financing have to be a part of any serious education plan.
 Mr. Summers's formal title will be director of the National Economic Council, a job created by Bill Clinton in 1993. But there really is no precedent for Mr. Summers's role. He is a former cabinet official who has also done well-received academic research on many of today's pressing topics. Whatever his flaws, he has the kind of mind that the Obama administration will need. 
 In the best case, Mr. Obama will encourage Mr. Summers to play the role of fearless truth teller. And Mr. Summers will be sure to surround himself with his own squad of truth tellers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence Summers, the incoming director of the National Economic Council, stands just behind President-elect Barack Obama.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); SHOOTINGS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); SHERYL SANDBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1094 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: President-Elect Starts Taking On Burdens of the Job

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
For three weeks now, his sprawling crowds have been gone, his lively rallies replaced by quiet appearances around town.
 There is, as Barack Obama has reminded us again and again, just one president at a time. It was a standard line intended to offer respect and deference to President Bush, even as it bought him time to absorb the new bounty of responsibilities before him.
 After two years on the verge of overexposure, the man suddenly has been hard to find. (After going unseen in public for days late last week, his aides staged a lunchtime photo opportunity. As he ordered a corned-beef sandwich at Manny's deli here, he could be heard saying to no one in particular, ''I'm just glad to be out.'') 
 Has Mr. Obama's grace period now effectively ended?
 His press conference here Monday, which was followed by one on Tuesday and another one that is scheduled for Wednesday, tripled the amount of time he has spent before the cameras since winning the election three weeks ago. His advisers determined that it was time for Mr. Obama to come forward and signal that he is taking ownership of the economic crisis.
 So when Mr. Obama walked into a downtown hotel ballroom here on Monday, his makeshift briefing room until he settles into the real one in the White House, the smile and the spontaneous ''Oh, wow'' that he uttered when opening his first post-election press conference on Nov. 7 were gone. He wore a serious look and carried a serious tone.
 When he returned on Tuesday, he seemed in brighter spirits, perhaps adhering to advice that Americans don't want to see a glum-faced president. He engaged in banter with a couple of reporters, referencing to one's loyalty to the Chicago White Sox and teasing another about a floppy hat he wore during the campaign. But his tone quickly turned sober as the talk turned to budget reform.
 ''We can't sustain a system that bleeds billions of taxpayer dollars, on programs that have outlived their usefulness or exist solely because of the power of politicians, lobbyists or interest groups,'' Mr. Obama said on Tuesday. ''We simply can't afford it.''
 As he spends hours each week internalizing and learning about the challenges afoot, the gravity of the situation seems to be keeping him naturally on script. To that end, he has abandoned the Teleprompter he relied on during the final months of his candidacy.
 He did, however, glance down at the talking points that were positioned on his lectern Monday, slowly reading aloud the biographical information on four new members of his economic team, including the first public announcement of a Cabinet selection, Timothy F. Geithner, as Treasury Secretary. The towering rhetoric that had captivated his audiences, as well as the partisan lines that were keyed up to rally the Democratic base at his rallies, have given way to sober assessments about the office that he is inheriting.
 Nearly everything is changing as he becomes accustomed to draping the presidential mantle across his shoulders. Even longtime aides like Robert Gibbs, the incoming White House press secretary, now call him president-elect. ''Absolutely,'' Mr. Gibbs said, ''even when we talk sports.''
 Bob Kerrey, a former Democratic senator from Nebraska who is president of the New School University in Manhattan, said Mr. Obama seemed to be adjusting well from candidate to president-elect. ''His most important quality is personal confidence and calm,'' he said. ''He isn't constantly second-guessing himself.''
 ''There is still considerable risk in transition to power,'' Mr. Kerrey added, noting that Mr. Obama's list of concerns also include Iraq, Afghanistan and Guantanamo Bay. Should he navigate those three challenges, Mr. Kerrey said, ''he has a better than average chance of handling the transition from adoring crowds to managing the treacherous meetings and press conferences.''
 A limited number of questions -- Mr. Obama allowed six on Monday -- cut down on the prospect for follow-ups. But are new policy positions also emerging from Mr. Obama as campaign applause lines give way to the challenges of governing?
 Listening to his press conference on Monday, it was easy for one's mind to race back to an often-repeated line from an Obama campaign event. At each stop, he would ask those in his audience to raise their hand if they made less than $250,000, an exercise designed to show how many people favored the notion of repealing the Bush tax cuts for upper-income Americans.
 At his first post-election press conference on Nov. 7, Mr. Obama demurred when asked whether he intended to raise taxes immediately on the wealthiest Americans by revoking those tax cuts. And on Monday, he offered a similar noncommittal reply.
 ''Whether that's done through repeal or whether that's done because the Bush tax cuts are not renewed is something that my economic team will be providing me a recommendation on,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But the basic principle is that we're going to provide tax cuts to the vast majority of Americans.''
 His supporters, who cheered wildly at his suggestion that he would immediately reverse the Bush administration's tax cuts, may be disappointed to know that he has ratcheted down the oratory about the issue. 
 But doing so gives him, as one adviser explained, a bit of strategic room for Mr. Obama to wiggle now that he is the president-elect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); POLITICS (77%); BASEBALL (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (53%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1095 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: For Biden, No Portfolio but the Role of a Counselor to Obama

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The day before Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s birthday last week, Barack Obama surprised him after lunch with candlelighted cupcakes. Within hours, the photograph of the president-elect and his running mate, smiling over the dessert, was on the evening news. 
 The photograph, circulated by Mr. Obama's office, was meant to project unity, confidence and camaraderie. But while Mr. Obama has moved quickly to assemble his White House staff and the beginnings of a cabinet, he is lagging behind even the chronically late President Bill Clinton in bringing clarity to the role his vice president will play. 
 So far, Mr. Biden has not been given a defined portfolio, the way Al Gore was given the environment and technology in 1992. And Mr. Obama's aides say they do not expect Mr. Biden to assume the kind of muscular role that Vice President Dick Cheney has played over the last eight years, although he is expected to put out a number of fires. 
 ''I'm sure that there will be discrete assignments over time,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president-elect. ''But I think his fundamental role is as a trusted counselor. I think that when Obama selected him, he selected him to be a counselor and an adviser on a broad range of issues.''
 Mr. Biden has spent much of the three weeks since the election in Chicago, where he has worked closely with Mr. Obama. But while Mr. Obama held a news conference in Chicago on Tuesday, Mr. Biden was home in Delaware, having spent Monday night in Wilmington stuffing Christmas stockings with his wife for a charity event.
 Mr. Biden seems to be adapting. He is hiring for his office, including a chief of staff, Ron Klain, who has worked with him since he was chairman of the Judiciary Committee in the 1990s. With Mr. Obama having settled on Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as secretary of state, Mr. Biden, whose most recent Senate post was chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has privately told people that he recognizes he will not be the point man on foreign policy.
 Mr. Biden has also interviewed candidates for chief economist, and associates say he is honing his economic credentials.
 Mr. Biden has been keeping up with his outreach to foreign leaders; two weeks ago he called the three leading candidates for prime minister of Israel, Tzipi Livni, Benjamin Netanyahu and Ehud Barak. He has also reached out to President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia, President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia and Javier Solana, the foreign policy chief of the European Union.
 Mr. Biden is spending most weekdays in Chicago, where he stays in a hotel and has lunch once a week with Mr. Obama. During the days, Mr. Biden, Mr. Obama and a coterie of advisers are in the team's transition offices, going through possible hires. Mr. Biden has been involved in cabinet and policy decisions, offering advice to the president-elect, aides said.
 Mr. Obama's aides say Mr. Biden has backed the decision to appoint Mrs. Clinton secretary of state. ''If he had made an argument against it, it would have carried a lot of weight,'' a senior aide to the transition said. ''He was totally in support of it.''
 The lack of specificity stands in contrast to the more clearly defined role of Mr. Gore. Within days of Mr. Clinton's election in 1992, advisers to the president-elect said Mr. Gore would be in charge of a broad initiative on science and technology, heralding what they promised would be a new era in which the government's focus on making armaments would shift to fostering new civilian technologies and industries. 
 By early December 1992, even before Mr. Clinton had made any cabinet appointments, Mr. Gore was out in front on the environment, issuing a statement calling for an investigation of a hazardous-waste incinerator and signaling that the administration planned an aggressive approach to enforcing environmental laws.
 During an interview with Gannett on Dec. 8, 1992, Mr. Clinton said Mr. Gore would have ''certain specific responsibilities over and above'' a general advisory role, including ''lobbying the Congress on our program, especially in the health care area, dealing with issues related to the environment and technology.''
 As for the relationship between Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden, aides to both men insist that the relationship is strong, with each man settling into his role. 
 ''I don't think there's any risk of Vice President-elect Biden being marginalized, regardless of who else is in the cabinet,'' said Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. ''Regardless of who is selected, there will be plenty of talent around the table.'' 
 Ms. Jarrett characterized the relationship between Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden as ''warm and respectful.''
 The candidates' wives, Michelle Obama and Jill Biden, hit it off immediately when they first met, aides said. And Mr. Biden's grandchildren and the Obama daughters had a sleepover with pizza, popcorn and DVDs one night during the Democratic convention in Denver. 
 Aides say Mr. Biden and Mr. Obama sometimes rib each other in private meetings, and they maintain that Mr. Obama was not unduly angry at Mr. Biden for his gaffe predicting that Mr. Obama would be tested by a world crisis in his first six months in office.
 Since then, however, Mr. Biden has not had much to say to the news media. Through a spokeswoman, he declined to be interviewed for this article, itself a break from his voluble past. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. listened to Presidentelect Barack Obama at a news conference Monday in Chicago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); FOREIGN POLICY (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CHARITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOE BIDEN (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); AL GORE (58%); RON KLAIN (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%); ALVARO URIBE (57%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (57%); TZIPORA LIVNI (55%); EHUD BARAK (50%); JAVIER SOLANA (50%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); GEORGIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1096 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Extreme Makeover at Morgan Stanley

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Call it Morgan Stanley 2.0.
 Two months ago, Morgan Stanley, one of the grandest names on Wall Street, transformed itself into an old-fashioned bank holding company in a desperate bid to survive the financial crisis. 
 But now this new Morgan Stanley faces an even bigger challenge: figuring out where to go from here. Goldman Sachs, its perennial rival, is in the midst of a similar metamorphosis, and both firms face a somewhat uncertain future. 
 Drawing up the roadmap at Morgan Stanley are Walid A. Chammah and James P. Gorman, who are not only co-presidents but also potential rivals to succeed John J. Mack as chief executive. 
 Mr. Chammah is trying to re-engineer Morgan Stanley's vaunted investment banking operation for leaner times, which means cutting jobs -- lots of them. Since July the firm has announced plans to eliminate 16 percent of its work force. 
 Mr. Gorman, meantime, is urgently hunting for a bank to buy to build a base of customer deposits that would provide a crucial cushion -- and new types of earnings. So far, he has not sealed any deals. 
 Morgan Stanley has had some good news in the last few days. Its share price rose three days in a row, along with other financial stocks, and Fitch Ratings upgraded its outlook for the bank's credit rating to stable from negative. The company plans to sell more than $2 billion in new debt that will be backed by a federal program. 
 Still, neither the co-presidents nor Mr. Mack, 64, have fully persuaded investors that Morgan Stanley can recapture its past glory -- or past profits. Morgan's stock is worth only a fraction of what it was a year ago and the company's next quarterly results, due in mid-December, do not look promising. 
 The transformation under way at Morgan Stanley is emblematic of the tectonic shifts reshaping the landscape of American finance. Given the faltering economy and the wild ride in the markets, few think the changes will be smooth for Morgan Stanley or any other bank.
 ''Morgan Stanley, in particular, has explicitly recognized that the reality has changed,'' said Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. ''They are actually going to build a banking business.'' 
 Along with their boss, Mr. Chammah, 54, and Mr. Gorman, 50, are trying one of the most radical makeovers in Wall Street history smack in the middle of their industry's darkest moment since the Depression. Many Americans are outraged that banks like Morgan Stanley have gotten multibillion-dollar lifelines from Washington, particularly when the Detroit automakers are being turned away.
 It is hardly surprisingly then that neither Mr. Chammah nor Mr. Gorman is eager to talk about compensation or the annual bonuses that Morgan Stanley is expected to pay its employees next month. Last year, Morgan Stanley paid out $4 billion in bonuses to its then 48,000 workers. Mr. Mack did not take a bonus because of the bank's mortgage losses. It is widely expected that the bank's top executives, like their counterparts at Goldman Sachs, will forgo bonuses this year. 
 During an interview last week, Mr. Gorman and Mr. Chammah acknowledged that Morgan Stanley would probably have to build its consumer banking operation piecemeal. Wells Fargo recently scooped up the Wachovia Corporation, the last easy target for Morgan Stanley. Now that Citigroup has been stabilized, it seems unlikely that Morgan Stanley could pick off that bank's consumer banking business. (Morgan Stanley and Citigroup discussed a possible merger in September, but the talks went nowhere.) 
 But as a commercial bank, Morgan Stanley can no longer operate with the level of risk or borrowed money that made it so profitable in the past. Big money-printing businesses like mergers and acquisitions and securities underwriting have all but vanished. The bank's real estate and hedge fund investments are under water. And its wealth management advisory businesses are not making many people wealthier.
 While Morgan Stanley has a long history of political infighting, the two co-presidents paint a friendly picture of their relationship. Their predecessors famously disliked each other, and one of them, Zoe Cruz, was fired last year because some blamed her for Morgan Stanley's ill-fated expansion in mortgage investments.
 When asked how Morgan Stanley had changed in the year since they became co-presidents, Mr. Chammah instead proclaimed his fondness for Mr. Gorman.
 ''Let's put this issue to bed: I don't think you could ask to have a better relationship with two partners,'' he said. ''We like each other.''
 In September, as Morgan Stanley came under siege in the markets, the two worked side by side, ate dinner together and then crashed on couches in neighboring offices, the pair said. Now, two months later, they lavish praise on each other, with Mr. Gorman spontaneously calling Mr. Chammah, ''Mr. Charmer.''
 Even so, things looked a lot different when they were promoted last year. Mr. Chammah, who shares Mr. Mack's Lebanese heritage, got the part of Morgan Stanley that long defined the white-shoe firm and provided most of its revenue: mergers, capital raising, sales and trading, research and advisory services. Mr. Gorman got the job of overseeing what then looked to outsiders like a relative backwater: retail brokerage and asset management.
 But now the roles have somewhat reversed, with many of Mr. Chammah's businesses suffering, and Mr. Gorman's becoming more vital to the firm because they could provide steady, stable earnings.
 It is a shifting of roles that they acknowledge, but they say it does not bother them.
 ''We don't think of it as decrease and increase between us,'' said Mr. Chammah, whose businesses still account for nearly 70 percent of the bank's revenue. ''I'm a very big proponent of James's retail and asset management.''
 Mr. Gorman is making cuts in some of his businesses, like the money market fund area. And he pointed to bright spots in Mr. Chammah's businesses like commodities and currency trading. He said clients told him they still needed Mr. Chammah's investment bankers. 
 ''All these things that Walid's business has managed will be a growth business,'' Mr. Gorman said.
 Their relative success over the next year will probably contribute to Mr. Mack's thinking about his heir. The chief has no plans to retire any time soon, according to a spokeswoman.
 The growth most investors are focused on at the moment is Morgan Stanley's deposit base, which will be overseen by Mr. Gorman, a lanky Australian who moved to the United States in the 1980s. As a consultant for McKinsey & Company, Merrill Lynch was one of his main clients, and in 1999, he joined that investment bank as chief marketing officer. While there, he oversaw the bank's brokers and the creation of a Merrill Lynch credit card, which is still offered. He joined Morgan Stanley two years ago and turned around its band of brokers, inherited from the merger with Dean Witter.
 But Mr. Gorman has never worked at a commercial bank, and there is quite a lot of work ahead of him at Morgan Stanley. Commercial banks typically have deposits worth 25 to 45 percent of their assets. Morgan has roughly $1 trillion in assets, so even while reducing assets, the bank would want to reach some $200 billion in deposits -- or six times its current $36 billion. That kind of growth will only come with Pacman-style acquisitions of banks in the United States and possibly abroad, which Mr. Gorman said Morgan Stanley had the capital to pursue. 
 To some extent the field of competitors for bank buyouts is narrowed by rules that limit how much of the national deposit base can be owned by a single company. Bank of America and Wells Fargo are brushing up againstthat limit.
 ''This country of 8,000 banks is going to go through enormous consolidation in the next few years, and we want to be one of the players,'' Mr. Gorman said.
 In the long run, it will probably be Mr. Chammah's units -- the old Morgan Stanley -- that will restore the firm's luster. Until then, Mr. Gorman's businesses must carry a heavy load. 
 ''The sooner Morgan Stanley can build a deposit base, the more quickly confidence will come back, and Gorman is carrying the ball on that one,'' said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company and the former treasurer at Morgan Stanley. ''But the future of Morgan Stanley really belongs to Walid because he manages what drives the value of Morgan Stanley -- the trading and the investment banking.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Walid A. Chammah, left, and James P. Gorman have been co-presidents of Morgan Stanley for the last year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Morgan Stanley, based in Times Square, has been cutting costs and employees as it revamps to become a bank.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LABOR FORCE (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (51%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (89%); JOHN J MACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1097 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: McCain's Plans

BYLINE: By KATE PHILLIPS

 BODY:
In his first real news conference since the week after his defeat in the presidential race, Senator John McCain emerged Tuesday in Phoenix to say that he planned to run again -- for re-election to the Senate in 2010. 
 Mr. McCain, 72, a longtime Arizona senator, returned to the Senate this month and has tried to deflect reporters' questions whenever he ventured into one of the Capitol's public hallways. 
 At his news conference on Tuesday with local journalists, Mr. McCain again defended his selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate, a choice that many top Republicans and pundits ultimately blamed for his decline in the polls. He called Ms. Palin ''a breath of fresh air that swept the country.'' And, he said, her future ''is very bright.''
 ''I think she did a great job of energizing our base,'' he said. ''I'm very proud of her.''
 Instead, Mr. McCain said, the main reason for his defeat was the worsening of the nation's economy after the Republican convention. As the American public's focus shifted to the financial crisis -- and away from the war in Iraq and the perceived success of the troop escalation there -- he lost considerable ground, he said, adding that Americans ''wanted a new stewardship.''
 KATE PHILLIPS 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA SEGALL/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WRITERS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); SARAH PALIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1098 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Obama Vows to Cut Budget Waste

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama vowed on Tuesday to cut waste in a federal budget that ''bleeds billions,'' to help offset the costs of the huge stimulus package his team is planning.
 ''If we are going to make the investments we need, we also have to be willing to shed the spending that we don't need,'' he said.
 The president-elect, speaking to reporters in Chicago to introduce another key member of his economic team, also offered insight into the way he interpreted the election results that carried him to power. He said his victory was ''decisive,'' but brought with it a sense of humility that underscored the need for bipartisanship. 
 As expected, Mr. Obama said that he would nominate Peter R. Orszag to be director of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Orszag has been director of the Congressional Budget Office for nearly two years; he has worked in both the Bush and Clinton administrations.
 Mr. Obama said he would nominated Rob Nabors, staff director of the House Appropriations Committee, to be Mr. Orszag's deputy.
 ''Budget reform is not an option, it's a necessity,'' Mr. Obama said. After focusing Monday on financial rescue efforts and the rough outlines of his planned stimulus package, he concentrated Tuesday on budget issues. 
 Mr. Obama cited, as an example of the sort of cuts he expects Mr. Orszag and Mr. Nabors to find, a recent government report showing that farmers whose incomes exceeded $2.5 million had probably wrongly been paid some $49 million in government subsidies over a three-year period. 
 But he did not offer any other specific targets, and by itself, correcting the problem with the farm program would make only a trivially small dent in the budget deficits the federal government will face for years.
 The president-elect, who until this week had been keeping a low profile in Chicago while constructing his administration, was speaking in his second economy-related news conference in two days, with a third set for Wednesday. He was asked about the much higher profile he had suddenly adopted, and whether he had changed his mind about there being ''only one president at a time.''
 ''It's important, given the uncertainty in the markets and given the very legitimate anxiety that the American people are feeling that they know their new president has a plan and is going to act swiftly and boldly,'' Mr. Obama said.
 The people needed to know, he said, ''that we don't intend to stumble into the next administration, we are going to hit the ground running.''
 But was there a danger, he was asked, that he might be reading to much into the 8-million-vote margin by which he defeated Senator John McCain, his Republican rival?
 ''We had, I think, a decisive win,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I don't think that there's any question that we have a mandate to move the country in a new direction, and not continue the same old practices that have gotten us into the fix that we're in.''
 But he quickly noted that Mr. McCain, too, had won millions of votes, and he said it was important to maintain ''a sense of humility and a recognition that wisdom is not the monopoly of any one party.''
 ''I think what the American people want more than anything is just common-sense smart government,'' Mr. Obama said. ''They don't want ideology. They don't want bickering. They don't want sniping. They want action, and they want effectiveness.''
 He said he was encouraged that word of his earlier economic nominees, including Timothy F. Geithner to head the Treasury department and Lawrence Summers as senior White House economic adviser, had received praise from members of both parties.
 Several cabinet posts with important economic influence have still to be filled, and Mr. Obama may announce shome names on Wednesday. The pending posts include the secretaries of commerce, labor, energy and health and human services.
 Mr. Obama said that as he looks for ways to stimulate the economy in the short term, he will concentrate on measures that can also have beneficial longer-term effects. 
 ''My first priority and my first job is to get us on the path of economic recovery, to create 2.5 million jobs, to provide relief to middle-class families,'' he said. But he also wanted to set up a long-term plan to reduce deficits ''and make sure we're not leaving a mountain of debt for the next generation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); PETER ORSZAG (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1099 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Obama Places Stringent Limits on Inaugural Contributions

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama plans to bar special interests from contributing to his inaugural festivities and limit the amount he accepts to $50,000 per donor, the most stringent restrictions in the memory of campaign finance experts.
 Mr. Obama's newly formed inaugural committee said Tuesday that it would not accept money from corporations, political action committees, people who are currently registered with the federal government as lobbyists, those who are not citizens of the United States or registered foreign agents.
 Campaign finance experts said that to their knowledge, the limits were tighter than for any previous inauguration, both in dollar amounts and in who will be permitted to give. Donations for earlier inaugurations have carried dollar limits, but they were higher -- up to $250,000 for individuals in the case of George W. Bush, who allowed corporations to give more than that. 
 The restrictions are in keeping with Mr. Obama's pledge to curb the influence of money in government, and signal his intention to encourage broader public participation at the inauguration than in the past.
 The inauguration, on Jan. 20, is expected to draw more people than any in history. The largest previous inauguration is believed to have been that of President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965, attended by an estimated 1.2 million people. 
 Mr. Obama's committee has not put a price tag on the inauguration and is still wrestling with an array of details, not least the question of how much to pare the festivities in recognition of the nation's economic crisis and the serious tasks ahead.
 Mr. Obama, who has been preoccupied with the economic woes as he prepares to step into the presidency, formed his inaugural committee only in recent days and announced its five co-chairmen on Tuesday.
 They are William M. Daley, commerce secretary under President Bill Clinton; Penny S. Pritzker, finance chairwoman of Mr. Obama's presidential campaign; John W. Rogers Jr., founder and chief executive of the mutual fund company Ariel Investments; Patrick G. Ryan, a Republican who is in charge of Chicago's efforts to host the 2016 Summer Olympics; and Julianna Smoot, the Obama campaign's national finance director. 
 Although the cost of the inaugural is as yet unclear, Linda Douglass, a spokeswoman for the committee, said Mr. Obama expected to incur expenses that past presidents had not, because he wanted to make as many events as possible accessible to the public.
 ''We're going to explore all kinds of creative ways to open this up to the public, everything from the swearing-in to the events,'' Ms. Douglass said, adding that the celebration would include activities elsewhere in the country.
 ''This inauguration is more than just a celebration of an election,'' she said. ''This is an event that can be used to inspire and galvanize the public to act. That is what we're aiming for.''
 The committee is also working with federal officials to open to those attending the inauguration as much as possible of the Mall, which stretches two miles from the Capitol to the Lincoln Memorial. The section east of the Washington Monument has traditionally been used as a staging area for marching bands and others who participate in the inaugural parade, but they may be moved elsewhere this time to accommodate the crowds, most of whom will have to view the swearing-in ceremony and the parade on JumboTron screens.
 In modern times, inaugurations have been financed by a combination of public and private money. Most recently, in 2005, Mr. Bush spent a record $42.3 million on his inaugural events, most of it collected from corporations and executives. That money was directed mostly toward festivities, including fireworks, inaugural balls, the parade and a concert on the Mall. 
 But the federal and District of Columbia governments also spent a combined $115.5 million, most of it for security, the swearing-in ceremony and cleanup; the biggest expense by far, $84 million, was to compensate federal workers for the holiday.
 In barring lobbyists from contributing, Mr. Obama is continuing a practice he began with his campaign and applied as well to his transition, in which contribution limits are $5,000.
 ''Given his policies during the campaign, this is as consistent as you can write these rules and still raise the tens of millions of dollars that modern inaugurations have required,'' said Sheila Krumholz, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks the influence of money in politics.
 Ms. Krumholz said she believed that Mr. Obama's limits for the inauguration were stricter than those for any previous one. But, she noted, there are ways around the limits. Couples can give as much as $100,000 rather than $50,000, which itself is more than 10 times as high as the $4,600 maximum that individuals could donate for the primary and general-election campaigns together. And corporate executives can give as individuals, though their companies cannot. Moreover, many people lobby without being registered as lobbyists.
 In any event, the Obama team plans to call upon the hundreds of thousands of supporters who gave small-dollar amounts to the campaign, though it is anybody's guess to what extent they will contribute this time.
 ''Paying for other people to party in Washington doesn't seem like something they might go for,'' Ms. Krumholz said.
 One of the biggest unknowns for donors is whether they will get tickets to Mr. Obama's swearing-in ceremony. There are a total of 240,000 tickets, most of them controlled by Congress, and already the requests have vastly exceeded the supply.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush at the end of his 2005 inaugural address. A far bigger crowd is expected at the inauguration of Barack Obama, whose planners on Tuesday announced restrictions on donors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%); OLYMPICS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1100 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Outlook Grows More Dire for Housing Market

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The financial shocks of September and October appeared to dash any hopes for a quick recovery in the housing market, where the precipitous declines in sales and prices -- the problems at the heart of the current credit crisis -- have only worsened.
 Home loans, already scarce by normal standards, dried up as the impact of the Lehman Brothers collapse spiraled through the credit market. Buyers who had begun to wade back into the market were spooked by the turmoil, reversing recent improvements. Of the sales that did go through in October, nearly half were the result of a sale after a foreclosure. 
 And sellers were forced to lower prices again, sending home values down at a record pace.
 Home prices across the United States declined 16.6 percent in the third quarter from the July-to-September period a year ago, according to the Case-Shiller Home Price Index, a widely watched gauge released Tuesday by Standard & Poor's.
 That amounted to the biggest quarter-to-quarter decline in prices since the survey began in 1988. Prices have returned to levels not seen since 2004.
 ''We continue to believe that it is unlikely that we are anywhere near a bottom in nationwide home prices,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at the research firm MFR, wrote in a message to clients.
 And fewer Americans are making plans to buy. Just 1.9 percent of the 5,000 households who responded to a Conference Board survey said they planned to buy a home in the next six months, the lowest reading this year and down from 2.6 percent in November 2007. Overall consumer confidence recovered slightly from October, but remained low.
 Sensing the increasingly dire housing market, the Federal Reserve announced a pair of programs on Tuesday aimed at helping Americans obtain the money needed to make large purchases, like a home.
 ''This action is being taken to reduce the cost and increase the availability of credit for the purchase of houses,'' the Fed said in a statement, ''which in turn should support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets more generally.'' The Fed will buy up to $600 billion in mortgage-related assets from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant government-backed mortgage buyers. 
 ''We expect this action will measurably improve conditions in the mortgage markets and will have beneficial effects on housing and the broader economy,'' Michael Feroli, an economist at J.P. Morgan Chase, wrote in a note to clients.
 Prices declined in September in all 20 cities surveyed in the Case-Shiller report, with San Francisco and Phoenix suffering the biggest drops. Compared with a year ago, prices in Phoenix have dropped 31.9 percent, followed closely by Las Vegas with a 31.3 percent decline. 
 Los Angeles, Miami, San Diego and San Francisco all had annual declines of more than 26 percent. Prices in New York have fallen 7.3 percent since September 2007.
 ''The turmoil in the financial markets is placing further downward pressure on a housing market already weakened by its own fundamentals,'' David M. Blitzer, who oversees the index, wrote in a note.
 The report also suggested that conditions in the housing market were worsening after several months of more positive signs. While prices have fallen all year, they had appeared to be declining at a slower pace; that is no longer the case. 
 ''As bad as the latest Case-Shiller numbers appear to be, they are bound to get much worse,'' Patrick Newport, an economist at IHS Global Insight, wrote this morning.
 Case-Shiller came on the heels of another bleak report released Monday by the National Association of Realtors, which showed that sales of previously owned homes, which make up about 90 percent of the market, fell in October at the fastest annual rate in 40 years.
 For the housing market to improve, inventories of unsold homes will have to come down -- a development that is dependent on a steep reduction in prices that could attract more buyers.
 Indeed, the only silver lining to the significant price declines of late is that they signal the recovery process, while painful and slow, is under way. 
 In a separate report on Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that the economy contracted at a 0.5 percent annual rate in the third quarter, slightly more than the 0.3 percent contraction that was originally reported. The revision was in line with economists' expectations. 
 Consumer spending, traditionally the engine of American economic growth, fell 3.7 percent in the third quarter, even worse than the previously reported 3.1 percent decrease. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); FORECLOSURE (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1101 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: 'Recovery' Is In; 'Stimulus' Is So Seven Months Ago

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Democrats are bailing out on the word ''stimulus.''
 In a notable shift, Congressional leaders and officials of the incoming Obama administration are actively trying to retire that term and use the more marketable ''economic recovery program'' as the descriptor for the multibillion-dollar economic initiative to be considered early next year. 
 The change in emphasis reflects a realization that words matter. Architects of the $700 billion Treasury Department program concluded too late that something unabashedly promoted as a Wall Street ''bailout'' conjured images of well-heeled suspects sprung from jail or water feverishly tossed from a rapidly filling boat. By the time officials tried to rebrand it as a Wall Street ''rescue,'' the bailout's reputation was sunk. 
 And ''stimulus'' -- a buzzword from earlier this year -- combines bureaucratic wonkiness with the concept of shock therapy, Democrats worried.
 But ''economic recovery,'' they figured, somehow sounds more substantial and optimistic -- We can lick this thing -- and stirs thoughts of successful New Deal initiatives. 
 '' 'Stimulus' is Washington talk, and 'economic recovery' is how the American people think of it,'' said Rahm Emanuel, chief of staff for the incoming White House team.
 For Democrats like Mr. Emanuel, there is a serious purpose behind the semantic stagecraft: they want the public to get accustomed to the idea that turning the economy around is going to take some doing and that the money coming down the Congressional pike is not just a short-term, one-shot burst intended to produce instant results.
 President-elect Barack Obama hit the economic recovery theme hard in his recent public pronouncements as did his top advisers. Speaker Nancy Pelosi caught herself last week just as she was about to let the S-word slip. ''We're not using the word 'stimulus,' '' Ms. Pelosi confided at a news conference.
 Apparently with good reason. Public opinion researchers have found that voters do not consider the term particularly reassuring, perhaps because past stimuli have not proved to be personally rewarding or maybe because the phrase is just too Pavlovian in trying to elicit a predetermined economic response.
 Republicans, who note that they have been talking about their own ''economic recovery'' proposals for quite a while, are skeptical that the Democrats are doing anything more than changing a few lines in the talking points.
 ''They have consistently said they are for more Washington spending, and they have been trying to outbid each other day after day,'' said Kevin Smith, a spokesman for Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader. ''New rhetoric, same old Washington spending plan.''
 Yet Democrats say the program will go far beyond a simple stimulus to a comprehensive approach that mixes tax policy, road and bridge building, alternative-energy projects and technological improvements that will have far-reaching consequences. It should not be equated, they say, with a program that provides eligible taxpayers with a check to cover a quick trip to the electronics store.
 Still, they are well aware that imagery has proved powerful in the economic crisis. Besides the ill-fated labeling of the bailout, executives of the nation's automakers learned the hard way last week that flying to Washington on corporate jets to plead for federal aid was not the most effective message for car manufacturers to send. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We're not using the word 'stimulus,''' Speaker Nancy Pelosi confided at a news conference.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES)
 Rahm Emanuel said ''stimulus'' was Washington-speak.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (78%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); KEVIN SMITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1102 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Digital Sales Exceed CDs At Atlantic

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
Since MP3s first became popular a decade ago, music industry executives have obsessed over this question: when would digital music revenue finally surpass compact disc sales?
 For Atlantic Records, the label that in years past has delivered artists like Ray Charles, John Coltrane and Led Zeppelin, that time, apparently, is now.
 Atlantic, a unit of Warner Music Group, says it has reached a milestone that no other major record label has hit: more than half of its music sales in the United States are now from digital products, like downloads on iTunes and ring tones for cellphones. 
 ''We're like a college basketball team on an 18-2 run,'' said Craig Kallman, Atlantic's chairman and chief executive.
 At the Warner Music Group, Atlantic's parent company, digital represented 27 percent of its American recorded-music revenue during the fourth quarter. (Warner does not break out financial data for its labels, but Atlantic said that digital sales accounted for about 51 percent of its revenue.)
 With the milestone comes a sobering reality already familiar to newspapers and television producers. While digital delivery is becoming a bigger slice of the pie, the overall pie is shrinking fast. Analysts at Forrester Research estimate that music sales in the United States will decline to $9.2 billion in 2013, from $10.1 billion this year. That compares with $14.6 billion in 1999, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. 
 As a result, the hope that digital revenue will eventually compensate for declining sales of CDs -- and usher in overall growth -- have largely been dashed. 
 ''It's not at all clear that digital economics can make up for the drop in physical,'' said John Rose, a former executive at EMI, the British music company, who is now a senior partner at the Boston Consulting Group.
 Instead, the music industry is now hoping to find growth from a variety of other revenue streams it has not always had access to, like concert ticket sales and merchandise from artist tours. ''The real question,'' Mr. Rose said, ''is how does the record industry change its rights structure so it captures a fairer percent of the value it creates in funding, marketing and managing the launch of artists?''
 Ever since 1999, when the popular file-swapping service Napster was created, the music industry's fate has been closely watched by other media companies -- television, film and print publications like newspapers -- whose traditional businesses are also under siege. 
 In virtually all these corners of the media world, executives are fighting to hold onto as much of their old business as possible while transitioning to digital -- a difficult process that NBC Universal's chief executive, Jeff Zucker, has described as ''trading analog dollars for digital pennies.''
 In each of these sectors, digital remains a small piece of the business. NBC has said it expects $1 billion in digital revenue by 2009; over all, the company's revenue last year was more than $15 billion. Time Inc., the largest magazine publisher, with publications like Sports Illustrated, People and Fortune, said that about 9 percent of its $2.2 billion revenue in the first half of this year was derived from digital. In October, The New York Times Company said that online revenue accounted for 12.4 percent of its overall revenue.
 On Tuesday, the Warner Music Group reported that digital revenue for the full fiscal year rose 39 percent, to $639 million, or 18 percent of the company's total revenue. Over all, the company topped the expectations of Wall Street analysts -- who on average were forecasting a small loss, according to Reuters -- by reporting a net profit of $6 million in the fourth quarter. Revenue fell 1 percent, to $854 million.
 Atlantic, whose artists include the Southern rapper T. I., the rock band Death Cab for Cutie and Kid Rock, appears to be the first of the major labels to claim that most of its revenue is coming from digital sales -- and it says it has done so without seeing as steep a decline in compact disc sales as the rest of the industry. 
 This performance is sharply at odds with the trends in the music industry over all, where data show that sales of compact discs still account for more than two-thirds of music sales. Forrester Research does not expect digital music to reach 50 percent of the overall pie until 2011. 
 Analysts said they were surprised that Atlantic -- with the highest overall market share in the industry this year -- had such a high percentage of digital revenue.
 ''That's a lot,'' said David Card, a digital music analyst at Forrester Research. ''That's very high. No one is near that.''
 The question, then, is whether Atlantic's performance is an outlier or a signal that the music industry is reaching a pivot point as it moves toward a new business model. 
 ''I think we've figured it out,'' said Julie Greenwald, president of Atlantic Records. ''It used to be that you could connect five dots and sell a million records. Now there are 20 dots you can connect to sell a million records.''
 In making that transition to a digital business, the music business has become immeasurably more complicated. Replacing compact disc sales are small bits of revenue from many sources: Atlantic Records' digital sales include ring tones, ringbacks, satellite radio, iTunes sales and subscription services. At the same time, record labels -- Atlantic included -- are spending less money to market artists. In the pre-Internet days, said Ms. Greenwald, ''we were so flush, we did everything in the name of promotion.'' Among the cutbacks are less spending to produce videos and to support publicity tours when a new album is released.
 ''Today you have to be like Leonard Bernstein,'' said Mr. Kallman, ''making sure everyone is hitting the right notes at just the right millisecond. The tipping point, if you will, is when everything converges and your timing with everything is impeccable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The rapper T.I., left, with Julie Greenwald, the president of Atlantic Records, and Craig Kallman, Atlantic's chairman.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN SHEARER/WIREIMAGE.COM)(pg. B7) CHART: Music Downloads Increase, but Not Enough: In 2007, digital downloads surpassed physical media for the first time, in terms of units sold . .
 . . . but in terms of dollar value, digital still accounts for only a small portion of the total, which continues to decline.(Source: Recording Industry Association of America) Chart details bar graphs. (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (95%); RECORD REVENUES (92%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); MUSIC (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); FILM (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); BASKETBALL (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (82%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN ROSE (79%); JULIE GREENWALD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1103 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Obama Vows to Look for Budget Savings to Help Finance Recovery Plan

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama vowed on Tuesday to scour wasteful spending from the federal budget to help offset an investment in a huge recovery plan to jump-start the ailing economy, a pledge that he called part of his ''mandate to move the country in a new direction.''
 For the second straight day, Mr. Obama called a news conference to explain how his administration would respond to the nation's financial crisis. He named no specific government programs to be eliminated but said tightening the budget was part of the sacrifice he would ask Americans to endure. 
 ''We can't sustain a system that bleeds billions of taxpayer dollars on programs that have outlived their usefulness or exist solely because of the power of politicians, lobbyists or interest groups,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We simply can't afford it.''
 With an eye on the economy, Mr. Obama announced that he would nominate Peter R. Orszag as director of the Office of Management and Budget. After running the Congressional Budget Office for nearly two years, as well as handling economic policy in the Clinton and Bush administrations, Mr. Orszag ''doesn't need a map to tell him where the bodies are buried in the federal budget,'' Mr. Obama said.
 Together with a two-year economic recovery package of hundreds of billions of dollars in spending and tax cuts, Mr. Obama hopes to win early approval in Congress next year for separate language committing the government to actions that would bring deficits under control once the economy recovers.
 Advisers to Mr. Obama and to Congressional leaders say they have hardly begun to figure out what kind of process they could devise to enforce fiscal discipline. But Obama advisers, in particular, consider it essential to signal that Democrats are not using the economic crisis to go on a spending binge without concerns for future deficits.
 ''In these challenging times, when we are facing both rising deficits and a sinking economy, budget reform is not an option,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It's a necessity.''
 Budget controls are also considered important to securing the votes of conservative Democrats in the House and the Senate, who might otherwise balk at an economic stimulus package that could exceed $500 billion. One of those at the center of the effort to draw up proposals is Rahm Emanuel, who was the fourth-ranking House Democratic leader until Mr. Obama tapped him to be the White House chief of staff.
 Mr. Obama, who on Tuesday passed the three-week mark of his election, is seeking to take a more forceful and visible role in the transition to power. He said he would not overstep his role as president-elect but added that Americans should know that he and his ever-growing circle of advisers were preparing to tackle the economic problems.
 ''We don't intend to stumble into the next administration,'' Mr. Obama said.
 A briefing on Monday, followed by one on Tuesday with another set for Wednesday will triple the amount of time that Mr. Obama has spent in public view as president-elect. His aides limited the questions to four on Tuesday, but Mr. Obama spoke about his margin of victory in the most expansive way since the election.
 Mr. Obama called his triumph ''decisive,'' saying that voters were demanding change in Washington. He recorded 365 Electoral College votes to 173 for Senator John McCain, becoming the first Democratic presidential candidate in decades to win states like Indiana, North Carolina and Virginia.
 ''I don't think that there's any question that we have a mandate to move the country in a new direction and not continue the same old practices that have gotten us into the fix that we're in,'' Mr. Obama said.
 ''But I won 53 percent of the vote. That means 46 or 47 percent of the country voted for John McCain,'' he added. ''It's important, as I said on election night, that we enter into the new administration with a sense of humility and a recognition that wisdom is not the monopoly of any one party.''
 The top Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate Finance Committee issued a joint statement on Tuesday praising the selection of Mr. Orszag, calling him a smart and straightforward expert on the economy. Mr. Obama also said Tuesday that he would nominate Rob Nabors, the staff director of the House Appropriations Committee, to be Mr. Orszag's deputy.
 Mr. Obama cited, as an example of the possible cuts he expects Mr. Orszag and the rest of his budget team to find, the findings of a recent government report indicating that farmers whose incomes exceeded $2.5 million had most likely been mistakenly paid about $49 million in government subsidies from 2003 to 2006.
 He did not offer any other specific targets, and by itself, correcting the problem with the farm program would make an undetectable dent in the government's soaring deficits. After the financial recovery is under way, Mr. Obama said, the chase after wasteful spending will begin in earnest.
 ''Just because a program, a special interest tax break or corporate subsidy is hidden in this year's budget does not mean that it will survive the next,'' he said. ''The old ways of Washington simply can't meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama, speaking on Tuesday in Chicago, named Peter R. Orszag, left, director of the Office of Management and Budget, and Rob Nabors, next to him, deputy director.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RANKINGS (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); PETER ORSZAG (88%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008



1104 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2008

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Gray Line Tour Guides Threaten to Strike

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON


HIGHLIGHT: Members of Local 225 of the Transport Workers Union of America, which represents the guides at Gray Line tours, are threatening a strike. 

 BODY:
A man at a no-nonsense Hell's Kitchen bar on Tuesday night mentioned St. John the Divine and added parenthetically that it was "the largest church in North America."
 "Western Hemisphere," corrected a large man next to him, devouring what looked like the largest bar-burger in any hemisphere.
 There are few places this exchange would take place except in a room full of New York City tour guides. This was a barroom full of them, at McQuaid's Public House, a saloon on 11th Avenue and 43rd Street that feels like one of the grittiest bars in -- well, at least in the western stretches of Hell's Kitchen. It is a block off the Hudson River and feels as though it should be teeming with Westies and Tammany politicos, cigar-chomping union bosses and ward heelers.
 Indeed, it felt like a page out of old New York when a raucous union meeting was held on Tuesday night, with union members holding pints of beer and filling the basement of the bar.
 These weren't longshoremen or teamsters. They were members of Local 225 of the Transport Workers Union of America, which represents the guides at Gray Line tours, which one sees with a microphone atop a double-decker bus pointing out spots of interest. Their contract expired this month and, complaining of deteriorating working conditions, they are threatening a strike.
Mike Alvich, an official with Gray Line, said on Wednesday morning, "We can't comment on the negotiations at this time, but we're feeling very positive about it."
 Not everyone in the local was a trivia-dispensing tour guide for Gray Line, the largest double-decker tour bus operation in New York. The local also includes shuttle bus drivers for New York University and Gray Line ticket sellers, whom one sees in Times Square trying to sell tour tickets to tourists. Many of these are West African immigrants, and at the meeting they wore their red windbreaker uniforms and sat in a tight huddle, talking among themselves.
 The tour guides were a quirky, personable lot. The Tuesday evening meeting had the feel of a bunch of actors gathering for a cheerful A.A. meeting, except that many union members here came in with pints of beer from the upstairs bar. There were perhaps 100 people in the basement, which had too few chairs and was getting noisier and hotter by the minute.
 "Now we know what it's like to sit on the lower level of one of our buses," one guide said. Others swapped stories: the number of American tourists declined after the credit crunch, and more recently, Europeans have dropped off, too. They complained that Gray Line has been cutting back hours and giving fewer breaks during duty. They called for a pay increase. The top pay now is almost $17 an hour.
 I was sitting with the rank and file, at least until a union official got wind of it and escorted me out of the room. So I hung out at the bar upstairs and spoke to members as they trickled out, including Lee Klein, who had corrected the other aforementioned tour guide, Peter Oratowsky, in the "largest church" exchange.
 Mr. Klein, of the Inwood section of Manhattan, said his prior job as an art critic helped him point out artsy points of interest in New York.
 For example, driving through SoHo, Mr. Klein will point out where the artist Ana Mendieta plunged to her death in 1985. (Her husband, the minimalist sculptor Carl Andre, was charged with pushing her out a window, but was acquitted of her murder in a 1988 trial.) 
Mr. Klein said, "This profession should be taken a lot more seriously than it is -- I mean, a lot of us have given a large part of our lives for this job." 
 "I'll probably vote not to strike," he said. "With the economic downtown, we should hold out until next year."
 Mr. Oratowsky said that he is a former New York City schoolteacher and that "I learned more studying New York to be a tour guide than I did earning my master's in teaching."
 "A lot of us have a serious passion for this and make it worthwhile," Mr. Oratowsky said. "A tourist spends $39 for an hour, and they're getting a Broadway show." He called the job exhilarating.
 "No one experiences New York like us," he said. "We glide around all day on the top of a bus, looking in people's apartments, seeing fights, seeing celebrities. I've seen Paris Hilton, Puff Daddy, Donald Trump. I regularly see people naked in their homes. I get people flashing me. New York's the most unbelievable show in the world, and we get the best seat in the house."
 But it is also a tough job, Mr. Oratowsky added. "According to current guidelines, we can only close the top level if the temperature drops below 20 degrees -- that is cold. And you get people throwing rocks at you, and eggs."
 A woman next to him piped up: "In the Village, I've had people throwing ketchup packets at me."
 This was Senta Sundberg, of Park Slope, Brooklyn, a classically trained singer who has conducted tours for six years. She said she suffered a tore cartilage in her left knee when the bus lurched suddenly as she conducted a tour near the South Street Seaport.
 Downstairs, things were growing noisy. The West African ticket sellers were standing in a tight circle around the union officials' table and complaining loudly. David Chachere, a union leader and tour guide, came up from the basement and characterized the management's contract offer as paltry and not worthy of ratification when union members are instructed to vote by postcard in the coming days.
 "I say strike," he announced, adding that the local would have public opinion on its side, especially during this busy holiday season. "The largest industry now in New York is the tourist industry, and Gray Line is the marquee brand."
 A burly man in a blue Gray Line windbreaker and hat objected: "I don't know -- I hear they're training replacements for us already."

        
Readying a Destination at New York's New Summit
        
Promoting More Visits Between Korea and New York
        
Want to Visit 9/11 Memorial? Get Online (For a Ticket)
        
Would You Go to Liberty I. With Statue Closed?
        
For French Tourists, Strauss-Kahn Town House Is Must-See

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (87%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (87%); BEER & ALE (78%); TICKET SALES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (65%); CREDIT CRISIS (60%) Gray Line; tour guides; tourism; Highlights; Housing & Economy; Labor; Manhattan

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA (82%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011



1105 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Good Deeds: The Backlash

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
IT'S a rainy November Saturday in Yonkers, and all across town, high school students are engaged in the relentless pursuit of community service hours.
 Five students from Horace Mann, a private school in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, are spackling and painting a half-gutted, partly bullet-riddled home on Porach Street so that a new family can move in. (Three hours.)
 On the other side of town, students from Lincoln High School, a public school in Yonkers, are raucously demolishing the basement of a thrift store on Riverdale Avenue, to create space for storage. (Four hours.)
 Meanwhile, on East 27th Street in Manhattan, a hostess at the upscale barbecue restaurant Blue Smoke is turning away the fifth person who showed up a day early looking to make crafts for underprivileged children. The restaurant's Web site had the right date, she insists, but students these days seem pretty desperate to volunteer. (Come back tomorrow; two hours.) 
 Through the holidays and beyond, high school students will be working feverishly to serve the needy -- packing food baskets, ladling meals at soup kitchens, collecting toys for children in hospitals -- all in the name of amassing the community service credits they need for graduation.
 Cynics call these programs a form of forced altruism. Proponents say that they widen students' horizons while getting service work done. Either way, the backlash has begun: not only do college admissions officers roll their eyes at bogus-sounding claims, but high schools are scaling back the requirements, acknowledging that a lot of the so-called service is meaningless.
 When Lauren Swierczek took over last year as director of community service at Riverdale Country School, a private school in the Bronx whose students hail mainly from Manhattan (tuition: about $35,000 a year), she was troubled by the program she inherited. ''What I was finding was that the fixation was more on hours than acts of service,'' she said. Worse still, some students ''weren't actually doing it,'' she said. ''Documents were forged.''
 Students from wealthy families were ''knocking out their service hours with one total trip,'' like a three-week summer jaunt to Costa Rica or the Galapagos Islands, Ms. Swierczek said. These teen tours, which cost $4,000 or more, use as a selling point the ability to rack up as many as 80 hours of community service. When they are not cleaning debris from beaches or teaching English to local schoolchildren, the travelers enjoy heavy doses of kayaking and scuba lessons. 
 So Ms. Swierczek abolished Riverdale's requirement that students perform more than 100 hours of service before graduation. Instead, she decreed that all ''naturally formed communities'' at the school -- sports teams, the school newspaper and adviser groups, to which all students belong -- must tackle a community service project each year that is approved and supervised by her.
 The result, she said, is a renewed focus on the charitable experience itself. ''The message we want to teach our children is to live in a world bigger than their own,'' she said. ''It's provided real camaraderie within the school community.''
 At Columbia Grammar and Preparatory School on the Upper West Side of Manhattan (tuition: about $33,000), Patti Schackett, also in her second year as community service coordinator, has slashed the required number of hours to 60 from 100. As a parent there, she had already seen the system up close.
 ''We found that kids were getting credit for working at day camps'' and other summer jobs, Mrs. Schackett said. By cutting back the requirement, ''we were hoping that students would choose quality projects that do the most good, as opposed to projects that offer a lot of hours,'' she added.
 So far, the reaction from parents at both schools has been favorable. ''It's been a phenomenal, phenomenal change,'' said Donna Stern, a psychologist on the Upper East Side with three children at Riverdale.
 Mrs. Stern recalled being dismayed watching her eldest son, a ninth grader, do the kind of community service that helped no one, like stacking books in a synagogue library or checking its pens for ink.
 ''He was doing what I would consider ridiculous work just to get the hours,'' she said. ''I wasn't comfortable with it, but I felt, 'How else are we going to get the hours?' ''
 She credits Ms. Swierczek with changing the culture of community service at Riverdale, and offers as evidence a shoe drive her children held that collected more than 20 boxes of shoes for children in South Africa.
 ''It's not about getting hours anymore, it's about doing something as a team and as a school and supporting a very important cause,'' Mrs. Stern said.
 American high schools started adding community service requirements to their curriculums about 15 years ago. The practice had been around for decades at Jesuit schools, but began catching on at prep schools in the 1990s, with public schools quickly following suit. It didn't hurt that colleges looked favorably on applicants who could claim hundreds of hours of charity work before they had even gotten their driver's licenses.
 The requirements became so popular -- despite some unsuccessful legal challenges asserting that forced volunteerism was an oxymoron -- that states began adopting them. Maryland now requires students to perform 75 hours of community service before graduation, and the District of Columbia requires 100 hours. Florida, Iowa and Rhode Island have granted local boards or districts the authority to set up their own programs.
 In New York State, where schools set their own policies, requirements of 100 hours or more have grown common. (As always, New York tends to do things big: President-elect Barack Obama has suggested setting a national goal of 50 hours a year for all middle and high school students.)
 BUT critics say that what started as a dignified attempt to instill a sense of noblesse oblige in high school students has devolved into an unseemly obsession with hours -- not counting the ones that parents spend chauffeuring teenagers to soup kitchens. When students are in a panic over how to fill their hours, it leads to a debasement of community service that mistakes quantity for quality, these critics say. It also can prompt some teenagers to exaggerate their deeds, or, in the case of those from wealthier families, simply to buy their hours.
 Schools tend to be ''strict about the requirements, but not so strict about how you fulfill them,'' said Sandra R. Bass, editor of The Private School Insider, a newsletter in Manhattan. The requirements, she said, have ''been a major boon for a lot of different tour companies because most of the kids don't want to get their hands dirty, and a lot of the parents don't want their kids' hands too dirty.'' 
 Of course, not everybody is trying to blow off the requirements, and many teenagers who are exposed to community service grow passionate about it. Walter Koshel, a 17-year-old senior at Horace Mann, said he felt a deep commitment to his work with Habitat for Humanity. Yes, he acknowledged, some colleges might be impressed by this.
 In college admissions, ''it's so much harder now, there are so many different angles you can have, but I feel like this is really powerful,'' said Walter, who is helping refurbish the house on Porach Street in Yonkers.
 He said he had seen classmates try to game the system. ''I know someone who worked on the Obama campaign,'' he said, ''and at some points they got paid, but they also, like, gave in hours.''
 There are those who benefit from the hourly requirements -- for instance, the charities themselves. James Killoran, executive director of Habitat for Humanity of Westchester, stood on the porch of the Porach Street house and motioned toward the houses built by his organization. How much of the construction was done by student volunteers? ''At least 50 percent,'' he said.
 ''The high school kids aren't fair-weather friends,'' Mr. Killoran said. ''They know they have to come out.'' This makes them more valuable than, say, office workers who turn out for a one-time corporate event.
 If more schools reduce the number of required hours, charities could see a bountiful source of free labor begin to dry up. On the other hand, students who grow passionate about a cause often wind up exceeding their school obligations. ''It becomes part of their routine,'' Mrs. Schackett said.
 Travel companies offering pricey summer service trips for teenagers are less likely to find comfort in the updated policies. Under Riverdale's new rules, such trips no longer count as community service.
 ''We applaud and support'' students who want to teach English in Fiji or build schools in Thailand, Ms. Swierczek said, ''but service requirements will be done during the academic calendar year.''
 Of course, given the price tags -- three weeks in Hawaii or Thailand can run close to $7,000, while trips to Montana or Alaska can cost about $4,000 -- the tour companies are already nervous about this coming summer.
 ''The move toward community service over the last few years has been big, and it's not like last year was any great economy,'' said Scott von Eschen, president of Adventures Cross Country, based in San Francisco. ''We are all looking ahead and holding our breath a little.''
 As for the students, they seem to understand the difference between meaningful work and work done to fill a timesheet. Angelica Body-Lawson, a junior at Horace Mann, said that her younger sister, a middle school student with no hourly requirements, recently volunteered for a project that made crafts for the children of battered women, and the work went late into the night.
 ''They don't know what 'hours' is,'' she said. ''It was just like actually helping.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STUDENT AID: Walter Koshel and Angelica Body-Lawson help refurbish a house in Yonkers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 COMMUNITY SERVICE: Students, above, help load a City Harvest truck with produce from a farmers' market in Manhattan. In Yonkers, Ivan Zambrano, left, also a student volunteer, works in the basement of a thrift store.(PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SERVICE LEARNING (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FAMILY (76%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); SCUBA DIVING (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1106 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Two Cases Where a Little Help Made a Big Difference

BYLINE: By ABBY AGUIRRE

 BODY:
In daily articles, the Neediest Cases fund-raising campaign provides a window into the lives of the low-income people it serves. In many cases, one or two unexpected events have had a cascading detrimental effect on a person's economic well-being. But sometimes the reverse is also true: one or two outlays can mean the difference between someone finding a job, and therefore a place to live, medical coverage and any number of other essentials, and not. Here are two cases from past campaigns that show how timely assistance from the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has made a difference.
A Firmer Footing
Simone Williams did not want to wear the Frankenstein boots. 
''For real, they are Frankenstein boots!'' Ms. Williams says, referring to some of the shoe styles marketed to people with diabetic neuropathy, a condition that causes her feet to swell and ache.
She needed something to wear on job interviews, though -- shoes that would ease the soreness so that she could project capability and could focus on her prospective employers rather than her throbbing toes.
At the time, in 2006, making a good impression had never felt more critical. Ms. Williams, now 40, was coming off almost two years of unemployment and six months of homelessness, brought on in part by a bout of depression. She had years of professional experience in social service, not to mention a master's degree, but was worried about explaining the gap in her resume.
Drawing on the Neediest Cases Fund, the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service in July of that year bought her a $54 pair of orthopedic shoes that neither clamped down on her swollen feet nor offended her personal aesthetic: black Mary Janes.
Ms. Williams credited the shoes and the confidence they inspired when, several months later, she was hired as a peer advocate at the Baltic Street Mental Health Board, in Brooklyn.
''These shoes have taken me back to work again,'' she said at the time.
But the job was a part-time, temporary position -- one of many she would find with the continued support of the bureau.
In May of this year, she was able to parlay all the part-time work into a full-time, salaried job: Ms. Williams is the program manager at Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York's Beacon of Hope House, a housing program in the Bronx for mentally ill men and women.
When, after three interviews, Catholic Charities offered her the position and informed her of the salary -- an amount that meant she could move out of a shared apartment and into her own, and resume paying off her student loans -- Ms. Williams said nothing into the phone.
''Simone, are you there?'' the woman finally asked.
What Ms. Williams wanted to say next: ''Hell, yes, I'll take it!''
Instead, she feigned calmness: ''Yes, that sounds quite fine.''
Ms. Williams now thinks about starting her own nonprofit organization, a transitional-living program for 18- to 24-year-olds.
She is also working on her collection of subtly orthopedic shoes. It includes Timberland walking shoes, black pumps with a low heel and another pair of black Mary Janes.
Two Reunions
For years after her husband's skull was discovered in a pile of bones below a cliff some 200 miles north of Bogota, Colombia, the death threats against Martha Palomino were unrelenting.
Ms. Palomino says a guerrilla group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, kidnapped and tortured her husband, Carlos Raul Bonilla, in 1994 and then killed him in 1995. In later years, the group demanded money from her, burned down her farm and promised to kill her daughter, Claudia Bonilla.
So Ms. Palomino fled to New York in 2001, where after a couple of difficult years she met Mariana Duenas, a caseworker at Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York. Ms. Duenas helped Ms. Palomino apply for disability, food stamps and Medicaid.
Ms. Palomino was thus able to provide for her daughter, who arrived in New York in 2005. Ms. Duenas drew $400 from the Neediest Cases Fund to pay the first month's rent on a basement apartment for Ms. Bonilla and Ms. Palomino, who had been living in a homeless shelter.
Their happy reunion was overshadowed by an unhappy fact: Ms. Bonilla had left behind her son, Carlos, then 3. The guerrilla group had killed his father, too, Ms. Bonilla says, and she had entrusted the boy to relatives.
But in July of this year, after almost three years of waiting, Ms. Bonilla got the call that her son had been granted asylum in the United States.
Ms. Bonilla was living and working at a restaurant in Miami at the time. She quickly returned to New York and moved back in with her mother, by then living in Section 8 housing in Yonkers; the Neediest Cases Fund paid the $350 security deposit. Ms. Palomino made the trip to Colombia to retrieve the grandson she had never met.
Carlos, now 6, is in the first grade at a public school in Yonkers. Ms. Bonilla, now 24, walks him there every morning, then goes to work as a home health aide. When he gets home from school, his grandmother is there to take him to the park.
''Carlos is the king,'' Ms. Palomino says.
The Medicaid that Ms. Duenas secured for Ms. Palomino, now 53, means she can see a therapist four days a week for depression. It also means she can afford the cream that treats the skin cancer breaking out along her arms and legs.
Asked about Ms. Duenas, both Ms. Palomino and Ms. Bonilla are rendered momentarily speechless.
''She's not blood,'' Ms. Bonilla says finally. ''But in a way she's more than blood. She's our head. She brought all the parts together again.''
How to Help
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to:
4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245.
All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. Checks intended for a particular Neediest agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest gift.
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, NY 11217 (718) 310-5600
THE CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, NY 10022 (212) 371-1000
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, NY 11201 (718) 722-6000
THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 949-4800
THE COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street New York, NY 10010 (212) 254-8900
THE FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES, INC 281 Park Avenue South New York, NY 10010 (212) 777-4800
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, NY 10261-4100 (212) 980-1000
For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 730- 0927.
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carlos Bonilla, 6, is in first grade in Yonkers. When his family was still in Colombia, guerrillas killed his father and his grandfather. He lives with his mother and grandmother now. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Simone Williams, 40, found that the right kind of shoes got her through a job interview that led to a good-paying job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); DEPRESSION (65%); MENTAL HEALTH (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); DIABETES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



1107 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Circuits; BASICS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: A Shoppers' Briefing on Tech Gadgets

BYLINE: By ERIC A. TAUB

 BODY:
Televisions
 Cheaper, bigger, better -- when it comes to flat-panel TVs, those have been the watchwords for the last several years. But in this down economy, is anyone paying attention? 
 The leading TV manufacturers say everything is rosy, that people turn to cocooning and entertaining at home when the economy heads south. But the numbers are showing something different. Store traffic is off, sales growth is slowing, and the world's largest manufacturer of glass used for flat-panel TVs has withdrawn the sales guidance it released just last month.
 Still, for those looking for a flat-panel TV -- and Consumer Reports says it remains the most desired big-ticket consumer-electronics product this season -- there are great buys to be had.
 Prices have indeed dropped drastically. Last year, Sony charged $1,600 for a 40-inch LCD; this year's version of that model is $1,000. Big-screen plasma sets are even less. Last week, Sixth Avenue Electronics, which is based in New Jersey, was selling a Panasonic 1080p plasma set for $807, less than half the price of the 2007 model. 
 Black Friday prices will be even better, but the best deals will be for lesser-known third-tier brands that retailers can use to attract customers, according to Dan de Grandpre, chief executive of Dealnews.com, a price-tracking site.
 At the same time, features have increased. In LCD sets, more models have 120-hertz technology, which smoothes out the picture in fast-moving scenes. And 1080p resolution, the highest now available in an HD set, has become de rigueur, even in small-size screens that do not really need it.
 For next year, look for sets with increased contrast and a thinner profile, as manufacturers try to make them even easier to hang on a wall.
 The problem for the industry is that many consumers appear likely to hold off on purchasing sets, expecting further price decreases. In this economy, they're probably right. ERIC A. TAUB 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT COLLINS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (93%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (79%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); GLASS MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1108 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: No Relief on Food Prices

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
For more than a year, food manufacturers have been shaving package sizes and raising prices, declaring that they had little choice because of unprecedented increases in the cost of raw ingredients like corn, soybeans and wheat.
 Now, with the price of grains and other commodities plunging, it may seem logical that grocery prices will follow. But while prices for some items like milk and fresh produce are dropping, those of most packaged items and meat are holding firm or even increasing. Experts warn that consumers should not expect lower prices anytime soon on most items at the grocery store or in restaurants.
 Government and industry economists project that the overall cost of food will continue to climb in 2009, led by increases for meat and poultry. A big reason, they say, is that food companies still have not caught up with the prolonged run-up in commodity prices, which remain above historical averages despite coming down from their highs early this year. 
 The Agriculture Department is forecasting that food prices will increase 3.5 to 4.5 percent in 2009, compared with an estimated 5 to 6 percent increase by the end of this year. 
 Some economists project even steeper increases next year. For instance, Bill Lapp, principal at Advanced Economic Solutions in Omaha, said he expected food prices to jump 7 to 9 percent next year.
 ''For the last 21 months, food manufacturers, restaurants and livestock producers have been absorbing significant costs that in my view are likely to be passed on to consumers in 2009 and beyond,'' said Mr. Lapp, a former chief economist at ConAgra Foods.
 While predicting future food prices is an inexact science, data released by the Labor Department last week suggested the forecasters might be right.
 Overall consumer prices recorded the biggest drop in the history of the Consumer Price Index, but food prices continued to inch upward, albeit at a slower pace than in previous months. The C.P.I. showed that grocery prices rose 0.1 percent in October.
 Some of the more visible items on grocery shelves, including produce and dairy products, dropped sharply in recent weeks, but not enough to offset the general trend of rising prices. Restaurant prices rose 0.5 percent in October. 
 Commodity prices began climbing rapidly in the fall of 2007, and food companies were hit hard by the increases. They tried to slow eroding profit margins by cutting operating costs, making packages smaller and raising prices.
 Some companies, like Kellogg and Heinz, have managed to offset the higher ingredient costs and post robust profits by using shrewd commodity hedges and by raising prices without losing many customers. They also benefited from a trend of consumers eating out less and buying more groceries.
 But other food companies have struggled. Hershey, for instance, locked in high cocoa prices this year only to see prices drop this fall, analysts say. And meat and poultry companies have been hit by higher feed costs and a limited ability to charge higher prices, at least in the short term.
 Now, even though costs for ingredients like corn and wheat have dropped, meat and poultry providers say they still have not raised prices enough to cover their increased costs. And packaged food manufacturers are unlikely to lower prices because commodity costs remain relatively high and they are still trying to rebuild eroded margins.
 Michael Mitchell, a spokesman for Kraft Foods, said that the company's food ingredient costs this year were running $2 billion higher than in 2007, a 13 percent increase, but that the company had raised its overall prices by only 7 percent.
 William P. Roenigk, senior vice president and chief economist for the National Chicken Council, said his industry had been losing money for more than a year. Chicken producers are now trying to recover those costs by reducing production, which will eventually alter the balance between supply and demand. ''The time is coming when we're going to see a very significant increase in the retail price of chicken,'' he said.
 The restaurant industry, which has been battered by a sharp drop in customers, also says it has not been able to raise prices enough to keep pace with the cost of ingredients. 
 People in the restaurant business said they did not like raising prices during an economic downturn. ''If anything in this environment, one would be looking at the ability to offer much greater emphasis on value pricing in restaurant menus,'' said Hudson Riehle, chief economist of the National Restaurant Association. ''In contrast, exactly the opposite is happening. Our operators are being forced to raise menu prices at the highest rate since 1990.''
 Predictions about food prices are subject to change because commodity prices are unpredictable. Ephraim Leibtag, an economist for the Agriculture Department, said food inflation would slow by the middle of next year if commodity prices remained low. ''Right now the forecast is about 4 percent, but that would be lowered if we do not see any surge in commodity costs over the next few months,'' he said.
 A reason that overall food prices are expected to continue increasing is the lag between price increases for basic commodities and for finished food products in the grocery store, particularly for meat and processed foods. Consider the price of corn, an ingredient in things like cereal and breaded shrimp. It was not too long ago that corn hovered around $2 or $3 a bushel.
 But corn prices began climbing last fall and peaked around $8 a bushel in June. They have since dropped to about $3.50 a bushel, still above the historical norm. Some food manufacturers locked in prices for corn and other commodities in the spring and summer, fearing that prices could go even higher. But prices fell instead, and they are now stuck with the higher prices until their contracts expire.
 When costs go up for livestock producers, they are often unable to immediately raise prices because those prices are set on the open market, which is dictated by supply and demand. Instead, they begin reducing the size of their herds or flocks, which eventually leads to less meat on the market and higher prices. But reducing livestock production can take months to years, and in the interim it can actually suppress prices as breeding animals are slaughtered to reduce production. 
 The prospect of more food inflation is inflaming a debate over its causes. Many food manufacturers and economists maintain that one culprit is government policies promoting the use of ethanol fuel made from corn.
 About a third of the corn crop is used for ethanol, putting ethanol producers in competition with livestock farmers and food manufacturers. The result, they contend, is that prices for corn are now higher and more volatile.
 ''The connection of oil prices to agricultural commodities is new as of 2007, and it's a major game changer for those in the food production business,'' said Thomas E. Elam, president of FarmEcon, a consulting firm.
 But ethanol advocates counter that the food industry's arguments have been proved false, saying that corn prices have declined as ethanol production is increasing. Matt Hartwig, spokesman for the Renewable Fuels Association, an ethanol industry group, said food companies were ''very quick to tell the American public that they had to raise food prices because corn was so expensive, and that the reason corn was so expensive was corn-based ethanol.''
 Mr. Hartwig added: ''Now, clearly, we know that relationship doesn't exist. If ethanol isn't the reason, what is the real reason for food prices going up?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker checks frozen chicken wings at a Tyson plant in Springdale, Ark.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER TIREY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Prices are dropping for commodities like this corn being harvested near Auburn, Ill., but economists predict the cost of food for consumers will continue to increase through next year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH PERLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B7) CHART: Paying More for a Plateful: After large increases in retail food prices last year, the trend is projected to continue through next year.(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Economic Research Service (Department of Agriculture)) Chart details Annual change in retail prices. (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (93%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (93%); FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); MEATS (89%); FOOD MFG (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); MENU PRICES (78%); POULTRY (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (76%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (74%); COCOA MARKETS (72%); LIVESTOCK FEED (72%); DINING OUT TRENDS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (90%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (90%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (90%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (55%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1109 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Drop-Off in Consumer Spending in October Prompts More Concern

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The consequences of October's financial slump continued to unfold on Wednesday. 
 Consumer spending, the workhorse of American economic growth, dropped a full percentage point in October, the biggest monthly decline since the terrorist attacks in September 2001, the Commerce Department reported.
 The news was particularly worrisome for retailers, who are starting a holiday shopping season that, in good years, can provide up to 40 percent of their revenue. This year, sellers are bracing for low demand and overstocked inventories. 
 The falloff in spending could also drag down the nation's economic growth, already in negative territory from July to September. The spending decline in October signaled that the fourth quarter could be far worse. 
 October was the fourth consecutive month that Americans reduced their spending, accelerating a worrisome trend. Spending was down 0.3 percent in September, and 0.1 percent in August.
 Consumers are cutting their spending for many reasons, but high on the list is the weakening employment picture. Even Americans who have jobs are pinching pennies amid the constant news of cutbacks and layoffs. Consumer confidence ticked down again this month, according to a University of Michigan survey released on Wednesday. 
 ''We could well be seeing the first signs of households altering their behavior in the face of large capital losses in their investment and real estate portfolios, a deteriorating labor market and tight credit,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at the research firm MFR, wrote in a note to clients.
 The market collapse in October seemed to frighten many Americans into canceling or delaying purchases, a reaction that hurt both the consumer and business sectors. Orders for durable goods, a crucial measure of spending by businesses, declined 6.2 percent in October, twice what economists had expected, the Commerce Department said in a separate report.
 Orders for metals, factory equipment, computers and transportation equipment all dropped sharply. While the durable goods report is considered volatile from month to month, October's overall decline was much worse than the 0.2 percent dip in September.
 Most striking to economists was the 4 percent drop in civilian capital goods orders that exclude aircraft. This widely watched gauge for core spending by businesses has suffered three consecutive negative months. 
 ''The previously shallow downturn in the factory sector has now escalated into something worse,'' Cliff Waldman, an economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a trade group, wrote in a note.
 Only communications equipment saw an increase in demand in October. 
 The reports also contained fresh signs of deflation: prices fell 0.6 percent in October after rising 0.1 percent in September, according to the Commerce Department. Personal income rose 0.3 percent, and prices that exclude food and fuel were unchanged.
 The housing market has also been hard hit amid the market turmoil. A small sales increase reversed itself in October, with sales of new homes dropping 5.3 percent to an annual rate of 433,000, more than erasing a 0.7 percent rise in September. Much of the decline came from weaker sales in Western states, where sales fell 18 percent, the Commerce Department said.
 Sales were up 22.6 percent in the Northeast and 6 percent in the Midwest. They dropped 6 percent in the South.
 The median price of a new home sold in October was $218,000, down 7 percent from a year ago. Home prices, falling at the fastest pace in decades, have reached levels not seen since 2004. 
 Inventories remained high as well, which contributed to the decline in prices. At the current rate, it would take 11.1 months to sell off the backlog of newly constructed homes. New homes account for about 10 percent of the overall housing market.
 In a separate report on Wednesday, the Labor Department said that new applications for unemployment benefits fell last week to 529,000, a bigger drop than economists had expected. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The last Ford Expedition rolled off the assembly line in Wayne, Mich., Wednesday, signaling the start of retooling for smaller vehicles. Consumer spending continued to fall in October.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM VARNHAGEN/FORD MOTOR COMPANY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Nationwide, sales of existing homes fell more than expected in October, even though prices fell to levels not seen since 2004. Above, a home for sale in the Fan section of Richmond, Va.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HELBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar and line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1110 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: 2 Restaurants, a Big Tent And a Fight in Bryant Park

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
There is a nasty food fight going on in Bryant Park, the Midtown oasis next to the New York Public Library.
 The Bryant Park Grill, which has operated in the park for 13 years, has gone to court seeking to shut down Celsius: a Canadian Lounge, which opened this month only steps from the Grill's front door.
 The dispute is only partly about competition for diners in a seriously flagging economy. The Grill claims that the glassy, two-story Celsius lounge obscures views of its restaurant and violates its exclusive right under its lease with the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation to operate a full-service restaurant in the park.
 Beyond the issues of contract law, the argument boils down to these questions: Is Celsius a tent or a building? And is it a restaurant or a catering hall? 
 The Buildings Department issued a permit to Celsius, which is sponsored by the Canadian Tourism Commission, in October for a temporary $5,000 ''double-decker tent.'' But the structure that the restaurant now operates out of is nothing like what Boy Scouts sleep in. 
 It has steel girders, glass windows, a bar, a kitchen and a crystal chandelier. On the second floor, there is an enclosed lounge, as well as a balcony with tables, chairs and heat lamps. 
 Adrian Zuckerman, a lawyer for Ark Restaurants, which owns the Bryant Park Grill, said that the lounge was built on the basis of a ''false and fraudulent'' permit application to the Buildings Department. Rather than a $5,000 tent, he said, it is a ''$1.5 million, 7,000-square-foot, 2-story, steel- and-glass structure, with kitchen facilities.'' 
 ''It's not a tent or a catering hall,'' Mr. Zuckerman said. ''It's a restaurant.'' Park visitors seemed to agree. ''It's not a tent,'' Alice Brock, a tourist from upstate New York, said as she headed inside. ''It looks like a bar.''
 The Canadian Tourism Commission declined to comment on the dispute. But Daniel A. Biderman, executive director of the nonprofit Bryant Park Restoration Corporation, which operates and maintains the park, called the restaurant a ''temporary structure'' and said it has ''all the permits they need.''
 Tony Sclafani, a spokesman for the Buildings Department, acknowledged on Wednesday that the restaurant was not a tent. Although the department approved the permit, he said it has now concluded that the restaurant's plans were incomplete. He added that the department is planning to curtail the number of people allowed on the second floor.
 ''The owner failed to notify the department, as required, about specific uses, such as cooking and plumbing,'' Mr. Sclafani said. ''We are working with the owner to ensure that proper safety measures are put in place.''
 Mr. Biderman, whose group helped bring Celsius to the park, tried to minimize the fight. ''There are competing interests who would love to serve food to skaters during the next two months,'' Mr. Biderman said. ''A lot of my life is spent mediating disputes between users of the park.''
 As for Ark's exclusive rights, Mr. Biderman said, ''That clause was never intended to apply to temporary structures related to park programming like an ice rink.''
 Celsius, he said, is just one element of the seasonal winter market called ''Fetes de Noel,'' which runs through the end of January.'' It is organized by ID & A, an event planner that also runs a market in Union Square, and it features a popular public ice-skating rink and booths and kiosks offering jewelry, clothing, wallets and other holiday gifts.
 Ark Restaurants claims that there is also a health issue at stake. An engineering report commissioned by Ark concludes that ''the fire safety and structural integrity of the facility are highly questionable.'' 
 The structure has a vinyl roof and no sprinklers or fire-suppression system. And the restaurant's kitchen is near the stairwell leading to the second floor.
 ''If there's an accident or injury, people aren't going to remember Celsius; they're going to remember Bryant Park, and they'll avoid it,'' said Mr. Zuckerman, Ark's lawyer. He said Celsius's building application enabled the park corporation and ID & A to avoid reviews by the Fire and Building Departments ''that would have ensured fire safety and fire code compliance and structural integrity and safety.''
 Mr. Sclafani of the Buildings Department said that sprinklers are not ordinarily required for temporary structures. 
 Between 2005 and this year, Ark provided food and beverage service for Celsius when it was a temporary single-story structure. Apparently, the Canadians were not happy with Ark and the managers at the Grill.
 Susan Iris, a vice president of the tourism commission, wrote to ID & A in April saying that she was dismayed by the food-service operations, recounting her own luncheon encounters. 
 ''Between the foreign (nonedible) substances in my food, a 30-minute wait to have the situation rectified, indifference by the manager and listening to other guest's complaints all around, I have grave concerns about how our brand is being positioned,'' she said in her letter. Ms. Iris, who is based in Washington, declined to comment about her letter. Itai Shoffman, the executive producer of ID & A, did not return calls requesting comment.
 Mr. Zuckerman said that no one had ever complained about the food. Ms. Iris's letter surfaced after the legal dispute started. 
 As a result of Ms. Iris's complaints, the owners of the trendy Buddha Bar in Greenwich Village were brought in to design the new two-story Celsius and the restaurant's menu, which features three-bean chili with bison meat, macaroni and cheese with Canadian cheddar and ''maple leaf'' cosmos.
 Earlier this year, Ark unsuccessfully sought a court order blocking construction of the two-story structure. It is now back in court asking to reargue the case. In an affidavit, Mr. Zuckerman said that the court was ''erroneously led to believe'' that Celsius was a ''catering operation,'' for special events in the park.
 Michael Weinstein, the chief executive of Ark Restaurants, said that his publicly traded company, which pays more than $750,000 a year in rent at the park, has had a good relationship with the restoration corporation. 
 ''There just has to be some resolution to whether we are the exclusive restaurant in the park,'' he said. ''And whether Celsius is a restaurant or a catering hall.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Celsius, a temporary restaurant, at left, has aroused the ire of the Bryant Park Grill, which says it has exclusive rights in the park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); APPROVALS (67%)

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1111 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: The Plight of Gay Veterans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Newest Veterans Hit Hard by Economic Crisis'' (front page, Nov. 18): 
 One group of veterans who face added but avoidable economic distress are the thousands of gay men and lesbians who serve their country but cannot avail themselves of military benefits for their families.
 Because of ''don't ask, don't tell,'' these Americans are limited in which family members they can even list on military paperwork, resulting in forfeited benefits that are available to their peers. 
 Making the policy even more stupid, the United States has spent an estimated half a billion dollars since 1994 enforcing the unnecessary ban on open gays, money the troops deserve to have spent on them.
 Nathaniel Frank Santa Barbara, Calif., Nov.
 18, 2008
 The writer is the author of the forthcoming ''Unfriendly Fire: How the Gay Ban Undermines the Military and Weakens America'' and a senior research fellow at the Palm Center, University of California, Santa Barbara.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY BENEFITS (88%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); WRITERS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1112 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Even if You Can't Buy It, Happiness Is Big Business

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The stock market has been on a roller coaster, banks are going under, unemployment is skyrocketing, and foreclosed homes pepper the landscape. What better time for a happiness conference?
 In this dopamine-laden city, where the pursuit of well-being is something of a high art, a motley array of scientists, philosophers, doctors, psychologists, navel-gazing Googlers and Tibetan Buddhists addressed the latest findings on the science of human happiness -- or eudaemonia, the classical Greek term for human flourishing.
 Planned before the current crises, the first American ''Happiness and Its Causes'' conference was equal parts Aristotle and Oprah. It brought together heavy hitters like Paul Ekman, the psychologist known for deciphering facial ''microexpressions'' that reveal feelings, and Robert Sapolsky, the Stanford biologist. They considered topics like ''Compassion and the Pursuit of Happiness'' and ''Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers.'' 
 The conference is the latest manifestation of the booming happiness industry, subject of a growing number of books, scholarly research papers and academic courses. The concept began in Sydney in 2006 and has since expanded, its profile raised by the participation of the Dalai Lama in Sydney in 2007. 
 The two-day gathering in San Francisco this week, which cost $545, benefited a nonprofit group offering Buddhist teachings to prisoners. It knitted together many currents in the cultural ether: positive psychology, neuroplasticity, mindfulness-based stress reduction, the role of emotional support in cancer and the yogic ideal of ''being in the present moment.''
 ''We know more about gloominess than cheerfulness,'' Dr. Ekman said before exploring cross-cultural definitions of happiness, including nachas, the Yiddish expression of pride in the achievements of one's offspring. 
 Fortunately, given recent events, a growing number of studies over the past decade have suggested that money does not equal happiness, among them one concluding that the Inuit of northern Greenland and the Masai in Kenya were just as happy as members of the Forbes 400 list of richest Americans. 
 The latest word on happiness from the frontlines of medicine and science was condensed, a la SparkNotes, into user-friendly 15-minute nuggets. 
 Dr. David Spiegel, a professor at the Stanford School of Medicine and the director of its Center on Stress and Health, discussed the positive effects of group therapy on metastatic breast cancer patients, and his belief that people can live longer if they face their illnesses directly with proper emotional support. ''I've never lost a patient to terminal crying,'' Dr. Spiegel said. ''Suppressing sadness is the devil's bargain.''
 Professor Sapolsky of Stanford made a similar point about humans and baboons. Modern stress disorders contributing to hypertension, heart disease and other illnesses are the result of a disjuncture between primitive conditions and our own -- or, as he put it, ''running for your life in the savannah versus 30-year mortgages.'' 
 The relatively new field of behavioral neurogenetics is exploring a handful of genes that seem to be related to depression, anxiety, addictive personality, sensation seeking and other traits. But, Professor Sapolsky said in a follow-up e-mail message, a person's risk seems not predetermined but rather the result of interactions of genes and the environment, especially stressors in childhood. 
 Social support is vital, no matter how healthy you are, he told the crowd. ''How much you groom somebody else is more important than who grooms you.''
 The audience, composed largely of the helping professions, also included a senior vice president of a large mortgage company, who would not give her name. She said she had laid off more than 500 people in the last six months, and was there to learn how to boost the morale of employees working weekends and holidays and making do with bonuses cut in half. ''What truly makes people happy is a higher calling,'' she said, adding that companies like hers were not totally at fault for the mortgage crisis. ''Western society is too focused on blame,'' she said. ''In order for our customers to be happy, they have to understand that they're accountable.''
 ''Happiness entrepreneurs'' promoted themselves in the tea break that ended with the ting of a Tibetan prayer bell. Aymee Coget, who wants to be the Suze Orman of happiness, handed out fliers for her ''Happiness Makeover,'' a three-month route to ''sustainable eudaemonia.'' Ms. Coget, dressed to the nines in pink silk, said, ''I guarantee happiness in three months.''
 In the Bay Area, the happiness business has been in full flower. James Baraz, a revered meditation teacher, has a 10-month course in Berkeley on ''Awakening Joy.'' Among the exercises and meditations are suggestions for improving your life, including singing every day, making lists of things that made you happy and getting a ''joy buddy.''
 The course is a bona fide phenomenon since an article appeared in O, Oprah Winfrey's magazine, with 300 people taking it in Berkeley and 2,500 taking it online.
 ''Neuroscience and spirituality are coming together,'' Mr. Baraz said by telephone. ''It's not airy-fairy stuff.''
 Nevertheless, a few renegades at the conference suggested that happiness was overrated. ''Unhappiness about not being happy is a modern condition,'' said Darrin M. McMahon, a professor of history at Florida State University. ''We cannot feel good all the time, nor should we.''
 Yet the national embrace of ''Yes We Can'' hung in the air. ''We've had a period of borrowing money, personal gratification, consumption and self-interest,'' said Dacher Keltner, a professor of psychology at the University of California, Berkeley, and a director of the Greater Good Science Center. ''Now we will have a president who is talking about sacrifice.'' 
 ''Human beings are wired to care and give,'' Dr. Keltner added, ''and it's probably our best route to happiness.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Topics at a San Francisco event included ''Happiness: A History'' and ''Be Your Own Therapist.''
Robert Sapolsky, a Stanford biologist, talking with a conference participant.
Philosophers, scientists, psychologists and Buddhists attended workshops.
 Aymee Coget offered a ''Happiness Makeover'' with a three-month guarantee.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); CANCER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); RELIGION (76%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (76%); CLASSICS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HYPERTENSION (69%); BREAST CANCER (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); HEART DISEASE (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (50%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (92%); KENYA (78%); CHINA (72%); GREENLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1113 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 467 words

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
WHOM TO THANK
 For Our Holiday?
 Was the original Thanksgiving really in Plymouth, Mass., in 1621? Or was the holiday actually inspired by events in Lower Manhattan more than seven years earlier? 
 First, consider that Thanksgiving was always a moveable feast. It was proclaimed a holiday by President George Washington in 1789 in New York, when it was still the nation's capital. 
 Lincoln codified it as the last Thursday in November. Hoping to jump-start the economy by stretching the holiday shopping season during the Depression, Franklin Roosevelt moved it temporarily to the third Thursday. 
 F.D.R. had a point: Do more Americans give thanks this weekend or go shopping? Which city most sanctifies commerce? Or eating?
 But back to the beginning. In November 1613, well before the Pilgrims, the Dutch navigator Adriaen Block sailed into New York Harbor. He moored in an inlet near where the World Financial Center now stands. To make a long story short -- and the details are sketchy, anyway -- the ship burned. His crew built a few huts at what is now Broadway and Exchange Place. And, with the help of Native Americans, they survived the winter and built a new ship.
 They must have eaten. They might have invited the natives. They probably gave thanks. 
 ''They have become an almost unknown footnote to very early American history,'' says Arthur Piccolo, chairman of the Bowling Green Association, ''when in fact their story is more glorious, more inspiring, more difficult to comprehend than the Pilgrims of Plymouth Rock and their good fortune eight years later.''
 But history, Mr. Piccolo laments, may not be written by the winners as much as by those who know how to tell a good story. Speaking of which, Roy Block, a direct descendant of the Dutch explorer, worked for years as a marine surveyor for the government at 45 Broadway, the very site of Adriaen Block's little settlement. Roy Block died in 1967. His survivors included a son, John, in Woodside, Queens. 
 If any of the original Blocks are still here, Happy Thanksgiving. SAM ROBERTS 
 AUDIO: Hear the podcast on the blog.
 COMMENTS
 OF THE DAY
 ''I can't wait to receive my first customized e-mail alert: Due to budget problems and systemic corruption, this service is no longer available.''
 -- Dan Lewis, on the M.T.A.'s new text alerts about disruptions in service
 ''City Field. This way we only have to pay to change one letter. They can even keep the stupid umbrella.''
 -- Eric Schwartzman,on the prospect of a name change for the Mets' new stadium in light of Citigroup's bailout
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG 
 And the Spot Goes to ...
 A no-parking sign, a lawsuit against the city and now, months later, a ruling.
 Posthumous Philanthropy:Paul Newman's 18-page will, understated and detailed, leaves much to his foundation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); HISTORY (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); LITIGATION (61%); TEXT MESSAGING (60%); PODCASTING (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1114 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: New Smokeless Tobacco Worries Experts

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
Camel Snus, the latest smokeless tobacco product to hit the American market, is not your grandfather's chaw. 
 Available in three flavors and packaged in attractive tins, Snus does not have to be spit out and therefore can be used just about anywhere -- ''at a concert, right in front of security guards,'' ''on a jet from Miami to L.A.,'' or at an ''overpriced tapas restaurant,'' a promotional brochure suggests. 
 And Snus delivers a powerful dose of nicotine: eight milligrams in each pouch, a spokesman for the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, which manufacturers Snus, acknowledged on Wednesday. A pouch amounts to a single dose.
 That's far more nicotine per gram than is present other popular chewing tobacco products, according to some researchers, who are concerned that Snus may turn out to be both carcinogenic and highly addictive.
 Chewing tobacco regularly increases the risk of developing oral cancers; recent studies have associated heavy use with increased odds of pancreatic cancer, as well. The European Union banned sales of an earlier formulation of Snus in 1992 after a World Health Organization study determined the product could cause cancer. Snus is still sold in Sweden, where it originated, and in Norway.
 Health officials in West Virginia analyzed a version of Snus marketed earlier this year in parts of the United States and found it contained five milligrams of nicotine per gram of tobacco, or about two milligrams per pouch serving, said Robert Anderson, deputy director of the prevention research center at West Virginia University.
 Since then, he said, the amount of tobacco and the concentration of nicotine in each pouch appear to have increased. ''The nicotine in these products doesn't happen by accident,'' Mr. Anderson said.
 The latest packaging does contain more tobacco, 0.6 grams per pouch instead of 0.4 grams, and therefore more nicotine, according to R.J. Reynolds spokesman David Howard. 
 The disclosure dismayed some public health officials.
 ''It's so high in nicotine that the probability of becoming addicted to it with utilization of just one tin is going to be very high,'' said Bruce W. Adkins, director of the division of tobacco prevention of the West Virginia Bureau for Public Health in Charleston, W.Va. 
 R.J. Reynolds is hoping Snus will appeal to adult tobacco users because it ''meets societal expectations as well,'' Mr. Howard said. ''There is no second-hand smoke, no spitting.''
 But by providing users a nicotine fix without lighting up, Snus may tempt consumers to ignore initiatives designed to reduce tobacco use, such as indoor smoking bans, experts said.
 Since Snus can be used discreetly, it may also appeal to teenagers, Mr. Anderson said. ''The surreptitious aspects of it will be very obvious to them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (90%); CARCINOGENS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); SMOKING (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); TOBACCO MFG (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); SMOKING BANS (72%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); ORAL CANCER (67%); APPEALS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (52%)

COMPANY: R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (55%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); EUROPE (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1115 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Retail Rx for a Hip Mom-and-Pop

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
IN the early '70s, right after high school in Tennessee, Katy Wagster did what a lot of women with no particular plans do: she followed a boy west. In Dallas, she got a job as a flight attendant for Southwest Airlines, quit and did secretarial work. ''I became a hippie,'' she said. ''Great. Loved it. Then I followed another boy to Austin.'' 
 In 1979, a man she knew who owned a boutique on the campus of the University of Texas suggested that she buy the store, which was called By George and sold lines like Esprit, as well as sexy evening wear -- in the belief, according to Katy, that the only women in Austin who had money to throw around were hookers.
 ''I think I made $850 a month,'' she recalled. ''I lived in an apartment near campus. I shopped at Loehmann's.'' 
 By George's owner offered to co-sign a loan. ''I finally just went, 'Ding-dong, this is my opportunity.' Because I didn't go to college. And I bought it for $26,000. And I was 26 years old. I just figured it out. And I still run my business like that. You sell it, you put it in the bank.''
 Today, By George is a multimillion-dollar business, with two locations in Austin, labels like Lanvin and Bottega Veneta, and the big spenders are as likely to be musical artists as the wives of high-tech moguls. It is also one of the few surviving examples of a mom-and-pop retail operation. In 1991, Katy Wagster married Matthew Culmo, who like her had done a bit of everything, and together they run By George. 
 When friends describe the store's personal dimension -- the energy, humor and laid-back manner of its owners -- they could also be describing Austin. As Patti Rogers, a customer of 20 years, said: ''They have all these beautiful pieces of clothing, but they're likely to be in their Birkenstocks at the end of the day. They have that real-person quality.''
 But if the Culmos represent the fun and rare gift of the individual eye -- ''a very wearable eye,'' as Katy likes to say -- they are also evidence of the demise of those values. And it's a change brought about by the economy as much as by new competition in Austin from luxury chains, like the stores in the Domain mall north of town. For only the second time since Ms. Culmo bought her business, sales have declined -- by more than 15 percent for the year -- this following a dip in 2007. Until then, sales at By George grew steadily every year.
 Although Austin ranked third on a Forbes list of recession-proof cities, based on factors like low unemployment and stable home prices, the economic crisis has slowed traffic in their stores. In contrast to the scene barely two years ago, when Saturdays at By George meant lines for the 11 dressing rooms as people hung out and drank beer and watched football, there are hours in a day when nobody comes in. The Culmos were at Kennedy Airport on Sept. 29, waiting to board a flight to Milan, when the Dow plunged 778 points.
 Mr. Culmo recalled his sense of panic: ''Do I need to stay? Do I need to go? What do we do?'' In the end, they continued with their buying trip, persuaded, as Mr. Culmo said, that every other retailer was ''in the same boat.''
 But are they? While all retailers feel severely pinched by the economy, with stores like Neiman Marcus and Saks reporting double-digit losses in October, it is not true that everyone can rely on the same remedies. Unlike a department store, a mom-and-pop can't demand money from a designer if his stuff fails to sell at full price. Nor can it offload dud merchandise to a branch in another city. The mom-and-pop has to get the buy right, which implies actual knowledge of their customers' lives -- something that seems lacking among the big retailers. And very often the individual owner doesn't have a fall-back position or the safety net of a second income.
 This is what worries Katy Culmo. ''The scariest thing for me is that this is all we have,'' she said one day in the store last week. She had on boots and a long patchwork Chloe cardigan belted over a short skirt. ''It's me and Matthew,'' she said. ''And we're both tied to the same revenue source. This is it. We're not diversified. We are retailers.''
 Over several days -- over drinks at a new downtown wine bar, over hamburgers at the nearby Counter Cafe, over chats with friends like Shelley Washington, a ballet mistress with Twyla Tharp, who dropped by to try on some Lanvin flats -- the Culmos talked about how they are dealing with the new uncertainty. It is hard to imagine others in the industry being quite so candid. The conversation also gave a glimpse into their partnership. They said they didn't have rules about what could be discussed at home.
 ''If we start to get each other worked up, then we say, 'Let's stop talking about this,' '' Mr. Culmo said.
 Ms. Culmo interjected: ''Even in this interview I can see in his eyes, shut it. And I hate that.'' Turning to look at him, she said in a wry tone: ''Oh, Matty. He's always terrified what's going to come out of my mouth.''
 ''Everybody is,'' he said without expression.
 She smiled. ''Blatant and inappropriate at all times.''
 Ms. Culmo made her reputation in contemporary sportswear, and she is proud of the long relationships she has with companies like Dosa, Rosae Nichols and Tracy Reese. In fact, until the last six months, she wrote her orders without bothering to total them; she always knew she could sell whatever she bought. 
 But the store's contemporary business has seen the largest drop in sales, forcing Ms. Culmo to cherry-pick through lines while looking for less expensive labels to mix in. ''It's not fun,'' she said. With many retailers canceling orders, though, she believes there will be opportunities to pick up pieces closer to the time she needs them and probably at a discount.
 Before the Culmos added high-end women's fashion, in 2007, they sold men's wear -- profitably. (The season that Dries Van Noten did kilts, Mr. Culmo sold out of them.) An underappreciated perk of having even a sprinkling of men's wear is that it brings in new customers. And to generate more business in the contemporary area, he is thinking of adding lifestyle products like candles and bath items. 
 ''Women want to shop, but they're saying, 'Do I want to buy that $300 top or $600 dress?' '' he said. '' 'I like that candle.' ''
 Recently the rep for a product that guarantees longer lashes called. Ms. Culmo smirked as her husband smiled and said, ''I know, it's crazy but people are coming out of the woodwork to be in the store.''
 Considering how selectively the Culmos buy ready-to-wear, it was surprising to see the number of unusual styles they had from particular lines compared to what bigger stores bought. For instance, they had a black suede Alberta Ferretti shift with fringe, a starkly minimal Balenciaga column and a $7,700 belted leather coat from Bottega Veneta that a woman visiting from Denver wanted. Maybe because the choices seem so different, there has been less fall-off in designer sales. 
 ''Those customers still have events to go to,'' Mr. Culmo said. And the store has developed an out-of-town business, partly through its Web site and the sales staff. ''Our top customer is from Louisiana,'' Ms. Culmo said. ''We send her boxes.''
 But like a lot of retailers, Ms. Culmo is chagrined by prices, and she had to be tactical with the buying. ''There was the cutest dress at Lanvin I'd ever seen -- it looked like a skirt and a top,'' she said. ''That dress retailed for over $4,000. You know,I don't have a person for that dress at that price. So I bought a skirt and a top, and I got it down to $2,200 for the two. When you put it on a mannequin, it's going to look the same.''
 This fall By George began offering a store credit card with rewards points. Not only has the program opened up a substantial amount of available credit, but it also serves as a direct marketing tool. ''When a woman opens her wallet and sees Barneys and Neiman's, there needs to be a By George card,'' Mr. Culmo said, referring to two of his competitors in the Domain mall. 
 With many small retailers put under pressure by the economy -- Linda Dresner announced this week that she will close her New York store after 25 years -- there are limits to how much a person can adapt. Mr. Culmo showed his wife a photocopy of a chunky Lanvin necklace that a customer wanted to find. It was $2,200. Ms. Culmo said she would certainly look for it, but admitted: ''I don't know how to buy like that. I don't know how to buy big and showy.'' She paused to say hello to someone, getting up.
 ''Just personally,'' she continued. ''Even the handbags. I deferred 100 percent to him. That yellow Chloe bag.'' She looked at her husband.
 He nodded. ''Yeah, that was bad.''
 She laughed. ''I would never. ...''
 In a strange way, the economy may not force people to be innovative so much as it will take them back to the fundamentals. 
 ''We still have to be a store,'' Ms. Culmo said. ''And this is what I do. I can either place my orders and have some merchandise in here for people to buy, or I can just, you know, put sayonara on my door -- and then what are my skill sets?'' 
 She yelped with laughter at the jargon Katy Wagster never had a use for. Then she paused. ''I'm a good go-go dancer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PERFECT FIT: Katy and Matthew Culmo help Patti Rogers, a longtime customer at By George, decide on an Alberta Ferretti dress for an event in Austin.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE ROSENFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THE BIG PICTURE: By George, a fashion mecca in downtown Austin, stocks designer clothes (right) and more affordable, contemporary styles, like Current/Elliott jeans (below), at its satellite store. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANCE ROSENFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETAILERS (75%); AIRLINES (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1116 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Bicoastal Plea: Rebuild the Roads, Rails and Runways

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Piling Up Monuments of Waste'' (Economic Scene, Nov. 19): 
 David Leonhardt hit the nail on the head: our nation's infrastructure is crumbling because the federal government bases its spending decisions on politics rather than on economics. To remain competitive in the global economy, we must build and repair the roads, rails and runways America needs. 
 It is imperative that the new president and Congress fix this longstanding mess. Mr. Leonhardt mentions one of the most promising solutions: distributing money based on merit. The first step is to define ''merit'' by adopting criteria -- like enhancing economic competitiveness, reducing our dependence on foreign oil and cutting greenhouse gas emissions -- that will guide spending decisions. 
 With an economic stimulus package that includes infrastructure investments currently being debated in Washington, that work should begin immediately. States and localities are now paying for three of every four dollars spent on infrastructure. But we face budget deficits that make it extraordinarily difficult to sustain that share of investment; the federal government must do its part.
 If Washington starts spending more money more wisely, we can build the strong foundation necessary to remain the world's pre-eminent economic power. Michael R. Bloomberg Edward G. Rendell Arnold Schwarzenegger New York, Nov. 21, 2008
 The writers are co-chairmen of Building America's Future, a bipartisan coalition of elected officials dedicated to bringing about a new era of investment in infrastructure that enhances the nation's prosperity and quality of life. Mr. Bloomberg is mayor of New York; Mr. Rendell and Mr. Schwarzenegger are the governors of, respectively, Pennsylvania and California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); POLITICS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); EMISSIONS (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (57%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1117 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words

 BODY:
CREDIT THAW The federal government made two big moves to help consumers, but some people are ineligible while others will have to wait months before the benefits trickle down. 
 OVERSEAS STIMULUS China announced its largest interest rate cut in more than a decade, while the European Union outlined a $258 billion plan to spur growth on the Continent. [B1.] 
 BCE DEAL FALTERS Bell Canada, the largest phone company in Canada, said the economic slump might prevent its takeover from closing on time, signaling the buyout might collapse. [B1.]
 RISING COST OF FOOD Government and industry economists project that the cost of food will continue to climb in 2009, led by increases for meat and poultry, mainly because food companies still have not caught up with the prolonged run-up in commodity prices. [B1.]
 SCISSOR-FREE COUPONS The effort to find a deal in brick-and-mortar stores has moved online, where a rising world of coupon-clipping has taken shape. [B1.]
 DOWNGRADING THE STORM The BlackBerry Storm has nice features, but R.I.M. has failed to exploit the advantages of an on-screen keyboard. State of the Art: David Pogue. [B1.]
 DRUG INQUIRY The French drug maker Servier and the Israeli company Teva said they were among the pharmaceutical companies raided by European Union regulators this week. [B2.]
 NO LONGER STARVING With a little vision and help from the Internet, artists can derive lucrative careers from of their talents. [B3.]
 PROFIT FALLS Deere & Company's earnings unexpectedly fell in the fourth quarter, as the maker of agricultural equipment paid more for raw materials. [B3.]
 OPEC TENSIONS As oil prices fall and global demand wanes, members of the OPEC cartel are increasingly torn over the best course of action. [B3.]
 OPTIMISTIC MOOD A stock market gaining confidence in the financial system bolted higher, propelling the Dow Jones industrials to a four-day advance. [B4.]
 SPENDING DROPS Consumer spending fell a full percentage point in October, according to a government report. [B4.]
 TAX BREAKS Foreign banks with operations in the United States are seeking two new tax reductions that already benefit their American counterparts. [B5.]
 BUYING GUIDE Knowing the ups and downs of consumer electronics can make the difference between a smart purchase and a waste of money. Basics. [B6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); STARVATION (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); CARTELS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); POULTRY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); SMARTPHONES (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); STOCK INDEXES (68%)

COMPANY: DEERE & CO (66%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (66%); RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (66%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1118 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Cranberries Go Abroad, a Tonic for an Ailing Industry

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Eight years ago, the cranberry industry was in crisis. A glut of berries had cut prices to record lows, and farmers were going out of business.
 The industry's solution was to start selling this uniquely American crop overseas.
 ''We had to find new markets'' to survive, said Jeffrey LaFleur, president of the Cape Cod Cranberry Growers' Association, which represents cranberry farmers in Massachusetts. The state ranks second in cranberry production, behind Wisconsin. New Jersey is third. 
 In 2007, about 30 percent of American-grown cranberries were exported, accounting for $133 million in sales.
 ''We've made a concerted effort to look at international markets, and now it's our focus,'' said Toby Stapleton, a spokesman for the Cranberry Marketing Committee, based in Wareham, Mass.
 Moreover, despite a near-record cranberry crop this year, demand is outstripping supply. Growers are looking for more acreage, and Ocean Spray recently opened a large processing plant in Wisconsin. 
 ''We've seen growers looking for additional acreage to grow our industry, and state and federal regulators are looking at the wetland permitting process so it makes more sense for the growers,'' said Tom Lochner, executive director of the Wisconsin State Cranberry Growers Association. ''Cranberries are one of the few bright spots of the economy of central Wisconsin.''
 To many foreign palates, the bright, bitter berry was exotic, if not bizarre. So Ocean Spray, which processes about 70 percent of the nation's cranberry crop, started selling the ''cranberry mystique,'' which ''speaks to the taste, the health and the heritage of cranberries,'' said Stewart Gallagher, the company's president. 
 ''Some say it's a polarizing taste,'' Mr. Gallagher said. ''But sometimes being polarizing is better than being plain vanilla.'' 
 The cranberry was presented as something distinctly American, both delicious to eat and beautiful to behold. Foreign journalists are invited to southeastern Massachusetts or central Wisconsin each fall to watch the harvest, where the cranberry plants rise to the top of a flooded bog, and the berries are raked off. 
 Cranberries were also promoted as something of a superfruit, with the industry providing medical studies showing that cranberry juice may help prevent urinary tract infections, and playing up its antioxidant properties.
 ''It's been a big part of the underpinning of our whole marketing strategy,'' Mr. Gallagher said, ''particularly in the Asian market, where food is looked at as medicine.'' 
 The company created a number of new products for the Japanese market, including a carbonated cranberry drink and cranberry-flavored water. Sales in Japan account for about 5 percent of Ocean Spray's overseas sales.
 ''It's the most different market in which we operate,'' Mr. Gallagher said. 
 There were also linguistic hurdles. The word ''cranberry'' does not exist in Spanish, so marketers started calling the fruit ''arandano rojo,'' or ''red blueberry,'' in Spain. 
 Australia, Britain, Canada and Germany consume the most cranberries.
 At the German premiere of the ''Sex and the City'' movie, the Cranberry Marketing Committee handed out gift bags with kits to make cosmopolitan cocktails, because ''you can't make a cosmo without cranberry juice,'' Mr. Stapleton said. 
 In France, cranberry juice is blended with mango juice, one of the country's more popular beverages. In Australia and Britain, cranberry sauce is becoming a popular side dish.
 The berry has undergone a bit of a makeover in domestic and foreign markets with the addition of the sweetened dried cranberry, which makes it easier to add the fruit to baked goods and other foods. Ocean Spray calls the sweetened dried cranberries Craisins. ''For the most part, the products that sell here sell somewhere else,'' Mr. Gallagher said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about increasing sales of American cranberries overseas gave an incorrect title for Stewart Gallagher, an executive at Ocean Spray, which processes about 70 percent of the nation's cranberry crop. He is president of International at Ocean Spray, the company's international division, not president of the company. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foreign journalists are invited to watch cranberry harvests like this one, at a Willows Cranberries bog in Plymouth, Mass.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT DEWITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BERRY FARMING (94%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); WETLANDS (66%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1119 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Sewing Up the Safety Net

 BODY:
Largely missing from the discussion about the faltering economy is the recession's impact on the 37 million Americans who are already living at or below the poverty line -- and the millions more who will inevitably join their ranks as the downturn worsens. 
 Poverty and joblessness go hand in hand. If unemployment rises in the coming year from today's 6.5 percent to 9 percent, as some analysts predict, another 7.5 million to 10.3 million people could become poor, according to a new study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
 The prospect of nearly 50 million Americans in poverty is even more daunting when one considers the holes that have been punched in the safety net over the last quarter-century. Since the Reagan administration, the federal government has steadily reduced its role in curtailing poverty, or even in coordinating state and local efforts to help alleviate it. 
 Meanwhile, most states reduced or eliminated cash assistance for single poor adults and limited access to food stamps. Stricter eligibility requirements keep thousands of people from collecting jobless benefits. Facing budget deficits, cash-strapped states will be tempted to cut social programs even more. The experience of being poor in America, never easy, will soon become even more difficult for more people -- unless Congress boosts food stamps, modernizes the unemployment compensation system and takes other steps to strengthen the ability of the federal and state governments to help the millions who will need assistance.
 This is all the more important since the current poverty statistics significantly understate reality. The federal yardstick used to gauge poverty is severely outdated, giving too much weight to some factors in a typical family budget, like the cost of food, and not counting others, like the cost of child care and out-of-pocket medical costs. It also doesn't consider regional differences in the cost of living and doesn't include the cost of child care, taxes or the value of noncash benefits such as food stamps or tax credits.
 The National Academy of Sciences years ago recommended a new measure of poverty that takes such variables into account. But the revised framework has never been adopted because, among other reasons, it would add several million more people to the ranks of the poor.
 If there was ever a time for more precise measurements, it is now. Better numbers will produce a better understanding of poverty, and will enhance Washington's ability to respond in the difficult days ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POVERTY RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); COST OF LIVING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FOOD SECURITY (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); TAX LAW (70%); CHILD CARE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1120 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Gray Line's Tour Guides Threaten to Get Off the Bus

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
A man at a no-nonsense Hell's Kitchen bar on Tuesday night mentioned the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine and added parenthetically that it was ''the largest church in North America.''
 ''Western Hemisphere,'' corrected a big man next to him, devouring what looked like the largest bar burger in any hemisphere. 
 There are few places this exchange would take place except in a room full of New York City tour guides. This was a barroom full of them, at McQuaid's Public House, on 11th Avenue and 43rd Street. It is a block off the Hudson River and feels as though it should be teeming with Westies, cigar-chomping union bosses and ward heelers.
 Indeed, it felt like a page out of old New York when a raucous union meeting was held on Tuesday night, with members holding pints of beer and filling the basement of the bar.
 These were not longshoremen or Teamsters. They were members of Local 225 of the Transport Workers Union of America, which represents the guides at Gray Line tours. Their contract expired this month, and, complaining of working conditions, they are threatening to strike.
 Mike Alvich, an official with Gray Line, said on Wednesday, ''We can't comment on the negotiations at this time, but we're feeling very positive about it.''
 Not everyone in the local was a trivia-dispensing tour guide for Gray Line, the largest double-decker tour bus operation in New York. The local also included shuttle bus drivers for New York University and ticket sellers. 
 At the meeting on Tuesday, perhaps 100 people filled the basement of the bar. There were too few chairs, and it was getting noisier and hotter by the minute.
 ''Now we know what it's like to sit on the lower level of one of our buses,'' one guide said. Others swapped stories: the number of American tourists declined after the credit crunch, and more recently, Europeans have dropped off, too. They complained that Gray Line has been cutting back hours and giving fewer breaks during duty. They called for a pay increase. The top pay now is almost $17 an hour.
 ''This profession should be taken a lot more seriously than it is -- I mean, a lot of us have given a large part of our lives for this job,'' said Lee Klein, a tour guide from the Inwood section of Manhattan, after he came upstairs from the basement.
 Mr. Klein, who had corrected another tour guide, Peter Oratowsky, in the ''largest church'' exchange, said a previous job as an art critic helped him point out places of interest in New York..
 ''I'll probably vote not to strike,'' Mr. Klein said. ''With the economic downtown, we should hold out until next year.''
 Mr. Oratowsky said that he was a former New York City schoolteacher and that ''I learned more studying New York to be a tour guide than I did earning my master's in teaching.''
 ''A lot of us have a serious passion for this and make it worthwhile,'' Mr. Oratowsky said. ''A tourist spends $39 for an hour, and they're getting a Broadway show.'' He called the job exhilarating.
 ''No one experiences New York like us,'' he said. ''We glide around all day on the top of a bus, looking in people's apartments, seeing fights, seeing celebrities.
 ''I've seen Paris Hilton, Puff Daddy, Donald Trump. I regularly see people naked in their homes. I get people flashing me.''
 New York, he added, is ''the most unbelievable show in the world, and we get the best seat in the house.''
 But it is also a tough job, Mr. Oratowsky said: ''According to current guidelines, we can only close the top level if the temperature drops below 20 degrees -- that is cold. And you get people throwing rocks at you, and eggs.''
 David Chachere, a union leader and tour guide, characterized the management's contract offer as paltry and not worthy of ratification.
 ''I say strike,'' he announced, adding that the local would have public opinion on its side, especially during this busy holiday season. ''The largest industry now in New York is the tourist industry, and Gray Line is the marquee brand.''
 A burly man in a blue Gray Line jacket and hat objected. ''I don't know -- I hear they're training replacements for us already.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gray Line tour guides are threatening to strike over pay, which tops out at almost $17 an hour, and conditions at work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (87%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BEER & ALE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (64%); CREDIT CRISIS (61%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1121 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Recalling Joy For Lions Fans, In Black and White

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
Many of us who grew up in Detroit will punish ourselves again Thursday by watching the winless Lions in their annual Thanksgiving Day game, played in recent years downtown at Ford Field.
 Some of us remember better days for the team and the city. Fans under age 50 may doubt this, but once upon a time the Lions were good. This was in the 1960s, a profitable era of muscle cars, and the Lions were at times among the best teams in the N.F.L., right behind Vince Lombardi's Green Bay Packers.
 They played the Packers annually on Thanksgiving at old Tiger Stadium, and back then all home games were blacked out locally, even when sold out, as the Lions usually were. The closest television station allowed to show Lions home games was Channel 6 in Lansing, the state capital, about 90 miles northwest of Detroit. This created an underground economy, and it generated my strangest and fondest Thanksgiving football memory. 
 Most televisions in Detroit could not pull in that signal without a big antenna, preferably mounted on a tall building. Bar owners discovered they could increase business by erecting towers on their roofs and putting the antennas on top. Signs in bar windows declared ''All Lions Games on TV.'' Parking lots filled early with fans seeking choice bar stools. But we were a family of 10 kids, and my father was not about to pay for anything as frivolous as a big TV antenna. AM radio would have to do.
 He did have holiday spirit, however, and one year he hatched a plan to get some of us out of the house while our mom prepared dinner. Dad called the police station and fire station, and asked those in charge if he could bring his kids by for a tour.
 Sure, they told him, why not? So we piled into the station wagon. He wanted to entertain us and also teach us a civics lesson: that some people work on holidays and did important jobs, and that we should be thankful.
 The police station was great fun. I remember the officer in charge of the holding cells letting us file through the corridor past prisoners bemused to see a half-dozen children gawking through bars at them. But this was nothing compared with the fire station.
 Kids in a fire station! Big fire trucks. The shiny pole the firefighters slid down. All those huge boots and big axes. What more could a kid want? There were no fires at that moment, and a few fellows took time to chat and graciously show us around.
 But not all of them welcomed us. Where were the others? I heard low, deep voices. I looked around and noticed men sitting in a back room. The oldest sibling and probably the boldest at the time, I drifted over there and beheld a miracle.
 They were watching the Lions game on TV, from Tiger Stadium! Climbers that they were, the firefighters had attached a TV antenna to their rooftop radio tower. There, in living black and white, via distant Lansing, was a slightly fuzzy image of the Lions and the Packers. It was as if the firefighters had gathered around a campfire.
 They watched the Lions and the Packers battle on that muddy, chewed-up baseball sod beneath the center-field bleachers, with the upper-deck overhang in right field and all those posts that blocked views of fans. The firefighters barely noticed me, so I drew closer.
 I looked over their shoulders to see Joe Schmidt blitz Bart Starr, and Terry Barr try to beat Herb Adderley on a pass pattern. I felt as if I were bonding with an elite group of men in a rite of passage. This was better than Christmas and my birthday combined. 
 And then it happened. Somebody on the Lions dropped a pass or fumbled a ball or missed a tackle. (Even when they were good, the Lions could do this.) And the firefighters began to curse. Oh, I knew football fans sometimes cursed. Even kids did, on playgrounds.
 But this was an intense, all-male, adult environment, and it was absolutely amazing. They used curse words I'd never heard before. It was like hearing a new language or a tribal incantation, spoken with force and passion. 
 I heard familiar curses used in different ways. They were cursing in the pluperfect tense and using curse words as gerunds. I heard adjectival phrases that were brilliant and creative. Wow! This was quite unlike football gatherings in our family room.
 My eyes and ears were opened. I would never be the same. At the very least that day, I learned how important sports were to some people. Before long, my dad noticed I was missing from the group and wandered into the back room to find me.
 ''Watching the Lions, eh?'' he said. 
 ''Yeah,'' I said, disguising my delight, acting cool. ''Watching the Lions!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the 1960s, fans in Detroit, where Lions home games were blacked out, went to great lengths to pull in faraway TV signals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES
ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B10)
 In 1961, Paul Hornung, center, and the Green Bay Packers beat the Lions, 17-9, in their Thanksgiving Day game at Tiger Stadium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); SPORTS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS (97%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LANSING, MI, USA (58%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1122 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Out With Fancy Spas, In With Budget Salons

BYLINE: By KAYLEEN SCHAEFER

 BODY:
UNLIKE some New Yorkers who can't get enough of hand-pulled noodles or facsimiles of designer purses, Sheila Hurtado doesn't make a habit of going to Chinatown to shop or dine. But in recent weeks the 35-year-old office manager who lives in Park Slope has found another reason to make the trip there -- to see Wineeta Ranftle, an esthetician from Bangkok, who gives deep-cleansing facials in what was once an office supply closet for as little as $32.50. 
 ''I'm trying to be frugal,'' said Ms. Hurtado, who used to get $65 facials at the Rompal Salon in Park Slope, where the lighting is dim and the waiting room is stocked with chocolate and wine. In contrast, at Ms. Ranftle's small fluorescent-lit space in a beauty supply warehouse, treatments are accompanied by a sound-track of wind chimes emanating from a portable CD player that hardly masks the ringing of office phones and thumping music from the clothing store downstairs. 
 Still, Ms. Hurtado said, ''Wineeta gives me really good facials, and I can't believe the price.'' 
 In an era of economic austerity, Ms. Hurtado is among those who are trading down for luxuries they just can't give up. Sure, budget beauty seekers have been haunting Chinatown and Koreatown for years, but the ailing economy is making $300 for a massage seem excessive -- even for those who can afford it.
 Take Meredith Haberfeld, 34, an executive coach in Williamsburg who has tried out expensive spas in New York, Las Vegas and elsewhere. ''I'm repeatedly disappointed by the fancy spas,'' she said. ''Often, I feel like I just spent $300 and I didn't even like it.'' 
 Recently, Ms. Haberfeld's quest for the ultimate foot rub led her to Feet Island in a basement on Mott Street, where a man she calls Dr. Joe works on her feet for 75 cents a minute. 
 Owners of budget salons in New York that offer everything from facials to eyelash extensions to hair-styling say that more and more women who claim they were once regulars at spas like Bliss or Haven in SoHo are showing up for treatments that will cost them less than half the price. 
 For example, at Sai Kay 21 on Bayard Street in Chinatown, where an hour and a half facial costs $55 -- albeit in a room with a couple of other customers -- the esthetician, Mandy Wong, said she recently noticed more non-Asian women at the salon.
 ''They come in groups to eat and get a facial,'' she said. ''Everything is a little cheaper here. It's the Chinese style.'' 
 ''I thought my business would decrease in this economy,'' said Grace Gao Macnow, the owner of Graceful Services, a Midtown spa that charges $60 for an hour qigong massage, ''but instead it's increased -- some of my clients have a black Amex card and still they come here.'' 
 The transition to a spa without rainfall showers, candles or mud baths, and space to pad around in a robe and slippers can be rough for some. 
 At Graceful Services, for example, there aren't any lockers for customers to stash their shoes and bags in, which Ms. Macnow said was a problem for a recent visitor carrying a Gucci purse.
 ''She said, 'I'm not putting my $2,000 purse in a bin with my shoes,' '' said Ms. Macnow, who told her to ''just lie down.'' 
 The woman did, and after her massage, Ms. Macnow said the more-than-satisfied customer apologized for grumbling. 
 Recently, Ms. Ranftle, the beauty esthetician who works out of the warehouse on Broadway, said she had a new customer who, before she could begin the facial, asked Ms. Ranftle: ''Did you wash your hands?''
 ''Some people are going to like my room and some people are going to say it's not for me,'' Ms. Ranftle said. ''I don't take it personally.''
 Of course, there are those who have been partaking in unadorned spa experiences before the economy made them a necessity and are sorry to see their ''secret'' places flooded with bargain seekers. 
 In the last few months, Agnes Park, 29, a lawyer who lives in Manhattan, has noticed more non-Asian women than Asian women at Ebenezer Eyelash on 32nd Street in Koreatown, where lash extensions cost $90 for a full set, compared with about $300 at places like Shu Uemura. ''It's really hard to get appointments now,'' she said. ''I have to beg them. And this will be on a Tuesday night, not a Friday night when girls want to go out with their lashes.''
 Jenn Falik, a beauty and style expert who's made appearances on the Today Show and E! News, frequents salons like Hair Party 24, a 24-hour Korean hair salon on Madison Avenue and 28th Street, and a Chinese qigong massage place on 14th Street in the meatpacking district that is decorated only with a giant fish tank in the front. In the last several months, she has noticed that the latter has become decidedly busier.
 ''There was never anyone there,'' she said. ''It would be me, my husband, and the taxicab drivers with their cabs in neutral idling outside.''
 But this summer, the waiting area was packed with guys who looked like they worked in investment banking and women who appeared to be on breaks from their jobs at local boutiques. ''The cabdrivers would just get 15-minute treatments and be gone,'' Ms. Falik said. ''But these people were getting longer treatments. We had to sit in the dank waiting area and watch the fish eat the algae.'' 
 Some hope they can fend off the crowds by refusing to reveal their cheap finds. Anna Bennett, 42, who lives in the Bronx and is an assistant to the dean at Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, won't review her Chinatown spots for facials on Yelp, a Web site for posting reviews, even though she writes about other places in the city. Her co-workers feel the same. One gets her hair straightened for $12 somewhere in Chinatown but refuses to give Ms. Bennett the name of the place. 
 ''No matter how many times I ask, she won't tell me the name of it,'' she said. ''She doesn't want anyone to go there.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 18, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A listing on Nov. 27 with an article about budget beauty spas misstated the address of Ebenezer Eyelash, one of the spas. It is on the fourth floor at 32 West 32nd Street, not at 10 West 32nd Street. The telephone number is still (212) 947-5503.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BARGAINS: Jenn Falik, top left, at Hair Party 24
Wineeta Ranftle, top, does a facial -- that's her studio, above
and, above right, Grace Gao Macnow of Graceful Services checks in a client.(PHOTOGRAPH AT LEFT BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OTHERS BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (87%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); WOMEN (71%); CD & DVD DRIVES (53%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1123 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 659 words

PERSON: Sandy Ruby 

HEADLINE: Sandy Ruby, 67, Dies; Began Tech Hifi

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Sandy Ruby, a mathematician turned entrepreneur who, with a partner, founded a business in a dorm room and built it into Tech Hifi, a popular electronics retailer, died on Saturday in Boston. He was 67 and lived in Charlestown, Mass. The cause was complications of diabetes, said his brother, Michael.
 Tech Hifi was born amid a fever for stereo equipment among college students in the 1960s as recordings multiplied and the technology to play them improved. In 1964, John Strohbeen, an audiophile and M.I.T. undergraduate, discovered that stereo systems in Manhattan were selling at a 20 percent discount from their prices in nearby Boston. Hoping to earn enough to buy a sound system of his own, he began a business with the idea of buying in New York and selling on the Cambridge campus of M.I.T. 
 Mr. Ruby, four years older, arrived at M.I.T. as a graduate tutor in Mr. Strohbeen's dorm and as the possessor of a nifty stereo system that he received as a gift when he graduated from Harvard. As a result, Mr. Strohbeen said in an interview on Monday, ''Sandy became the dorm audiophile maven.'' They eventually became partners.
 The business was successful enough that local merchants complained that Mr. Strohbeen, without having to pay rent, was stealing their business, so he rented a storefront in an armory on the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and Vassar Street in Cambridge, and Tech Hifi was born. 
 Its hallmark -- knowledgeable salespeople who could satisfy the comparison-shopping stereo connoisseur -- helped propel its growth until it became one of the nation's largest purveyors of consumer electronics, with more than 80 stores, mostly in the Northeast, including more than a dozen in and around New York City. A recession and competition from discount retailers forced it out of business in the mid-1980s.
 ''Electronics retailers felt better about themselves than they should have,'' Mr. Ruby told Fortune magazine in 1987, commenting on how the business's boom days of the 1970s transformed to the bust days of the 1980s. ''In the glory days of audio, we were modestly successful businessmen buoyed by a tidal wave.''
 Sandow Sacks Ruby was born in Orange, N.J., on July 23, 1941, the son of Myron Ruby, a lawyer who was a United States Army officer in World War II, and Leonore Sacks, whose family ran an iron foundry in Newark. He spent his earliest years on army bases, but he grew up mostly in the towns of Essex Fells and South Orange. 
 After graduating from Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., he studied mathematics at Harvard, where, according to family lore, he also built motorcycles in his room at Lowell House. At M.I.T., he completed all the requirements for a doctorate except a dissertation; instead he concentrated on Tech Hifi.
 Mr. Ruby's first marriage, to Ruth Richards, ended in divorce. In addition to his brother, who lives in Brooklyn, he is survived by his wife, Gretchen Carter, whom he married in 1998; a daughter, Lauren Jo Richards-Ruby of Oakland, Calif.; and three sisters, Elizabeth Lyden of Omaha, Kathryn Ruby of Manhattan, and Alice Germond of Charles Town, W. Va., who is secretary of the Democratic National Committee.
 In 1979, Mr. Ruby founded another electronics retailer, Computer City, and after Tech Hifi went out of business, he ran the retail operations for Cambridge SoundWorks, a maker of speakers, radios and other audio equipment. Mr. Strohbeen, who left Tech Hifi in the late 1970s for the Ohm Acoustics Corporation in Brooklyn, of which he is now the president, recalled a moment from the early days of his partnership with Mr. Ruby.
 ''He was building a switch box for our second store,'' Mr. Strohbeen said. ''It took him two days, and at the end, he discovered he'd made a consistent error, and he had to redo the whole thing. He threw it on the floor and he jumped up and down on it for about five minutes. Then he said, 'Well, that's a relief,' and he started over.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandy Ruby 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); IRON FOUNDRIES (73%); ARMIES (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); WORLD WAR II (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); MILITARY BASES (60%); DIABETES (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1124 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Republican National Committee Keeps the Heat on Obama

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama is receiving heaps of good tidings from both sides of the aisle during this Thanksgiving season as he puts together his administration. But at least one office is not giving him a free pass. 
 With each day's announcement of another cabinet or White House appointment, the Republican National Committee has been blitzing out critical statements that look no different from the blasts issued throughout the campaign. Mr. Obama's selections so far, the Republican committee says, have been tax-raising, partisan Washington insiders, hardly the agents of change he promised.
 The aggressive approach contrasts with the tone so far from Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill, who are greeting the incoming administration with what has ranged from wait-and-see politeness to an almost warm embrace. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader from Kentucky, for example, offered praise for Mr. Obama's initial decisions last week and signaled that he was relieved to be done with President Bush.
 ''I think the new administration is off to a good start,'' Mr. McConnell told reporters. ''They're saying, in my view, all the right things.'' Referring to Mr. Obama and his team, he added: ''They want to govern in the middle and tackle big things.'' 
 ''Our members, in one way,'' Mr. McConnell said, ''are kind of relieved by the departure of an administration that became unpopular and made it very difficult for us to compete.''
 But if Mr. McConnell considers this a good start, the memo did not reach the Republican committee headquarters. Here is how the party has characterized various selections made by Mr. Obama:
 On Representative Rahm Emanuel as White House chief of staff: ''Barack Obama's first decision as president-elect undermines his promise to 'heal the divides.' Rahm Emanuel is a partisan insider who played a lead role in breaking Washington.''
 On David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's campaign strategist, as White House senior adviser: ''For a president-elect who promised to change the tone in Washington, it's disappointing that he is filling his White House with partisan bomb-throwers. When people think of 'change,' they don't think of political consultants like David Axelrod.''
 On Tom Daschle, the former Democratic majority leader in the Senate, as secretary of health and human services: ''For voters hoping to see new faces and fewer lobbyist-connections in government, Daschle's nomination will be another disappointment. Obama promised to change America's health care system, but his nominee to be secretary is no change agent.''
 On Eric H. Holder Jr., the former deputy attorney general, as attorney general: ''Instead of bringing the bipartisan 'change' to Washington that he promised voters, Barack Obama is rewarding yet another one of his political loyalists in Eric Holder. The only person who thinks Eric Holder represents 'hope' is Marc Rich,'' the convicted financier pardoned by President Bill Clinton with Mr. Holder's acquiescence. 
 It is not entirely surprising, of course, that a party organization would remain in feisty campaign mode even after the election while legislators in Congress would take a more accommodating tone. Republican lawmakers now have an incentive to work with Mr. Obama, at least for a while, particularly since Republicans lost enough seats to make it harder to exert influence. But the Republican party apparatus has an incentive to keep the heat on Mr. Obama and show donors and activists that it will not crumble despite the tough losses in this month's elections.
 ''Americans have very high expectations for President-elect Obama, and it's our job to hold him accountable on his promises,'' said Amber Wilkerson, a Republican National Committee spokeswoman. ''Naming Emanuel and Axelrod to his senior White House staff is not consistent with his post-partisan message, and nominating Daschle and Clinton to his cabinet does not represent change,'' she said, referring to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, said to be Mr. Obama's pick for secretary of state. Ms. Wilkerson continued: ''Republicans will work with the Obama administration when we agree, and we will be the loyal opposition when we don't.''
 The Obama transition office brushed off the attacks. ''We're busy putting a government together with the best and most qualified people from all sectors of our economy and our country,'' said Stephanie Cutter, the transition spokeswoman. ''Given the challenges facing this country, the president-elect has made it clear that he plans to govern in bipartisanship, because it will take all of us to get things done. We hope that same spirit is shared by others as well.''
 Some Republicans said Mr. Obama is getting kid glove treatment so far, especially compared with what Mr. Bush endured during his shortened transition period after the Supreme Court decision that effectively sealed his victory. The country was so polarized by the Florida recount and Democrats felt so aggrieved that goodwill was in shorter supply than it seems to be today.
 The reception given to Mr. Bush in late 2000 ''was the mirror opposite of what President-elect Obama is now enjoying,'' recalled Ari Fleischer, who became Mr. Bush's White House press secretary. ''Bush never had a honeymoon.''
 Mr. Fleischer recalled that some Democrats refused to consider Mr. Bush a legitimate president and boycotted a meeting at the White House. Mr. Bush's nomination of John Ashcroft for attorney general generated a Democratic backlash. And some Democrats accused Mr. Bush of talking down the economy by forecasting the looming recession.
 ''If that's what a honeymoon was supposed to feel like, then no one would ever want to get married,'' Mr. Fleischer said.
 So far, none of Mr. Obama's picks have sparked serious opposition in the Senate. That may owe as much to the Obama team's calculation as Republican assent. Mr. Obama's aides made sure to test the potential reaction to Mr. Holder on Capitol Hill before deciding to give him the nomination and ruled out some nominees who had ties to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 Others who could have become problematic quickly pulled their names from consideration. Penny Pritzker, a Chicago hotel magnate whose business transactions could have provoked scrutiny, last week said she did not want to be commerce secretary. On Tuesday, John O. Brennan, a longtime C.I.A. official, withdrew from consideration for a top intelligence position after questions about his views of detention and interrogation practices.
 But as Mr. Obama prepares to unveil his national security team next week, he bought himself one moment of respite. The one cabinet selection revealed so far that has generated no criticism from the Republican National Committee was that of the only Republican that Mr. Obama has so far embraced: Mr. Bush's defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, who is on track to keep his post.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); HEALTH CARE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); LAWYERS (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITCH MCCONNELL (79%); ERIC HOLDER (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); DAVID AXELROD (59%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1125 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Obama Describes Team As Experienced Yet Fresh

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama on Wednesday defended his decision to select veterans of the Clinton administration for positions in the West Wing, in his cabinet and across the administration, saying Americans would be rightly ''troubled'' if he overlooked experience simply to create the perception of change. 
 Mr. Obama, who built his presidential campaign around a message of bringing a fresh outlook to the problems of Washington, said he would be negligent if he did not recruit people who had advised previous presidents. He grew animated as he sought to dismiss suggestions ''that there's a recycling of people who were in the Clinton administration.'' 
 ''What we are going to do is combine experience with fresh thinking,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking at his third news conference here in three days. ''But understand where the vision for change comes from first and foremost: It comes from me.''
 The comments from Mr. Obama offered the clearest window yet on how he is building his team, particularly on the economy and national security. Although he has formally announced only one cabinet post, he is poised to reveal several other choices soon, nearly all of whom have ties to the Bush or Clinton administration.
 ''I suspect that you would be troubled and the American people would be troubled,'' Mr. Obama told a reporter, ''if I selected a Treasury secretary or a chairman of the National Economic Council at one of the most critical economic times in our history who had no experience in government whatsoever.''
 To amplify his point, Mr. Obama announced that he was forming the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, a panel of experts from business, labor, academia and other sectors. He said he was modeling the group after a foreign intelligence advisory board created by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, where those outside of government could be ''candid and unsparing in their assessment.''
 He named Paul A. Volcker, 81, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, to lead the economic advisory board.
 ''Paul has served under both Republicans and Democrats and is held in the highest esteem for his sound and independent judgment,'' Mr. Obama said, as the 6-foot-7 Mr. Volcker towered nearby. ''He pulls no punches. He seems to be fairly opinionated.''
 Mr. Volcker, who Democrats said was considered by Mr. Obama for the position of Treasury secretary, became chairman of the Federal Reserve in August 1979 as President Jimmy Carter was fighting to rein in the inflation caused by the oil shocks of 1973 and 1978. Mr. Volcker, who led the Fed until 1987, often used tactics that were unpopular, like rapid increases in interest rates. Criticized at the time as having caused a recession, he was later praised for the effectiveness of his efforts.
 ''Paul Volcker hasn't been in Washington for quite some time,'' Mr. Obama said, ''and that's part of the reason he can provide a fresh perspective.''
 Austan Goolsbee, a University of Chicago economist who was a leading economic adviser to the Obama presidential campaign, will be the top staff member of the advisory board. 
 Mr. Obama said he would appoint other members to the board before taking office on Jan. 20. The back-to-back-to-back appearances by Mr. Obama this week were intended to demonstrate that he is striving to tackle the economic crisis that has shaken financial markets and rattled consumer confidence. Even though the Dow Jones industrials climbed 247 points on Wednesday, the fourth straight rise, he conceded that the holiday shopping season would be a challenge for families and retailers.
 ''What we don't want to do is get caught up in a spiral where people pull back from the economy, businesses then pull back, jobs are reduced,'' Mr. Obama said, adding that he hoped a recovery plan to create new jobs and save existing ones would be in place when he took office. With confidence, he declared, ''Help is on the way.''
 In a brief question-and-answer session, Mr. Obama said his call for new ways of thinking on the economy should not be interpreted as a reflection of frustration and disappointment with the Bush administration's recent economic-recovery efforts. He signaled his support for the latest $800 billion government bailout plan, which is intended to provide new lending for consumers as well as to push down home mortgage rates. 
 Before taking a holiday break from staff and cabinet announcements, Mr. Obama and his family arrived at St. Columbanus Catholic Parish on the South Side of Chicago. They handed out white plastic bags filled with chicken, potatoes, apples and loaves of bread.
 ''The number of people who are getting food this year is up 33 percent,'' Mr. Obama said after shaking hands with food bank volunteers. ''These folks were already, oftentimes, having a tough time, and it gets tougher now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama and his daughter Malia distributed food Wednesday at St. Columbanus Catholic Parish in Chicago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RECESSION (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); ESPIONAGE (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (59%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: SA RECYCLING LLC (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (71%); SIC5093 SCRAP & WASTE MATERIALS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JIMMY CARTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1126 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Speech! Speech! But Could You Please Cut the Price?

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
Talk is cheap, they say, but these days some people are hoping it will become even cheaper. 
 For decades high-profile figures from areas like politics and the electronic and print news media have been able to augment their earnings with a steady stream of well-paid speaking engagements before university audiences, corporate gatherings and other groups. Some of the speakers, including best-selling authors, have come to rely on such fees as a significant part of their income. But with a host of industries that regularly book speakers for conferences and motivational meetings now facing dire economic conditions, budgets for speaking engagements are being examined, and, increasingly, less expensive alternatives are being sought. 
 In the past few weeks agents at American Program Bureau, which represents authors, entertainers, politicians and others who make the lucrative rounds of the speaking circuit, have received several calls from organizations looking to book someone to speak about the environment. 
 ''They all say, 'Can you get us Al Gore?' '' said Robert Walker, founder and chief executive. His agency doesn't represent the former vice president, but Mr. Walker said that when his agents pointed out what kind of fees Mr. Gore tends to receive, none of the organizations could afford such sums in this economic climate. 
 So the agents recommended others on their client roster, including John Passacantando, executive director of Greenpeace USA, and Summer Rayne Oakes, a board member and occasional correspondent on the Planet Green network. ''She's not even a quarter of the price of someone like Gore, but she has a lot to say,'' Mr. Walker said.
 Steven Barclay, a lecture agent in Petaluma, Calif., who represents literary figures like Billy Collins, Michael Chabon and Adrienne Rich, as well as up-and-coming authors like the Iranian-American memoirist Firoozeh Dumas, said he was starting to have conversations with universities and others about adjusting their plans. 
 ''Instead of having eyes bigger than your stomach, you should look at this range rather than this range,'' he said. ''So you gently lead them to suggestions that may fit and cost them less money.'' He said fees could range from $5,000 to $50,000.
 Mr. Barclay added, though, that the biggest names, like his client David Sedaris, were ''recession proof.'' He said Mr. Sedaris, whose latest book, ''When You Are Engulfed in Flames,'' was published in June, just completed a 34-city tour in 34 days, selling 65,000 tickets. ''We're planning his fall 2009 tour, and I have way more offers than I know what to do with,'' Mr. Barclay said.
 Still, several agencies say that bookings for the coming year are down, as some former customers have canceled meetings or curtailed the use of outside speakers. Mr. Walker said bookings had declined slightly from last year. Bernie Swain, chairman of Washington Speakers Bureau, which exclusively represents 187 clients, including Colin L. Powell, Alan Greenspan and Madeleine Albright, said bookings from financial institutions had dropped in the past two months to about 20 percent below the same period last year.
 ''The traditional buyers that have been in the marketplace for the last 8 to 10 years have cut back,'' said Don Epstein, chief executive of Greater Talent Network, which represents Campbell Brown, Tom Wolfe and P. J. O'Rourke. ''Especially Wall Streeters and the real estate market and the insurance companies. Certain financial institutions aren't even there, and these were all great customers of ours for a long time.''
 American International Group, the insurance giant that recently received a government bailout package, announced in a statement last month that it was canceling more than 160 conferences and events after a ''candid discussion'' with Andrew M. Cuomo, New York's attorney general, who ''laid out his serious concerns regarding executive compensation issues and exorbitant expenses at A.I.G.'' 
 An A.I.G. spokesman said he did not know how many of those meetings had scheduled paid speakers, but the company did cancel a planned appearance by Terry Bradshaw, the former quarterback and current television football analyst, at a training event for independent financial advisers that was held this month at a resort in Phoenix.
 Given the climate some speakers are cutting their fees. Mr. Walker of American Program Bureau said that he had recently booked a ''major, major TV icon'' who generally earns $75,000 for a speaking appearance at an event at a Fortune 100 technology company for one-third the normal fee. 
 Bruce M. MacMillan, president and chief executive of Meeting Professionals International, an umbrella group of professional meeting planners whose members also include executives from 80 of the Fortune 100 companies, said that two-thirds of its 24,000 members expect a decline in their event-planning business in the coming year. 
 But Mr. MacMillan said that while sports or entertainment figures who generally are brought in for primarily motivational purposes might see a drop-off in speaking engagements, some companies and professional organizations would put even more emphasis on serious speakers in a difficult economy. ''People want answers in this type of economy,'' he said. ''Yes, you can read books or research it on the Internet, but engaging with a live human being is the best way to get answers in this economy right now.''
 For people who can speak on the hot topics -- the economy, the changing political landscape after the election of Barack Obama -- bookings remain strong. 
 Carlton Sedgeley, president of Royce Carlton, a speakers agency in New York, said that an author like Fareed Zakaria, the editor of Newsweek International and author of ''The Post-American World,'' has more than 30 dates lined up for 2009, including appearances at colleges, professional organizations and companies like IBM and Accenture, a technology consulting business.
 Speakers bureaus affiliated with publishing companies have so far not seen a significant decline in bookings despite a tough environment for book sales. Many of their clients speak at orientations for college freshmen or other campus events, and so far that business is not drying up.
 ''As far as universities go, I think they have to be competitive with each other to attract top students,'' said Jacqueline Fischetti, who runs the Penguin Speakers Bureau and represents Penguin authors like Junot Diaz, Michael Pollan and Geraldine Brooks. ''I don't think they can cut these programs.''
 Paul Bogaards, a spokesman for Alfred A. Knopf, a publisher that also runs its own speakers bureau, said that by representing some authors who were not necessarily household names and who commanded low fees, the company was not yet affected by the downturn. 
 He said bookings for 2009 were up 70 percent compared with the same point last year, albeit based on a relatively small sample. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many groups want Al Gore to speak, until they learn his fee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); WRITERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LITERATURE (76%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); BESTSELLERS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); RECESSION (69%); FIRES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); GREENPEACE USA (54%)

PERSON: AL GORE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1127 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Count Those Blessings

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Time to give thanks. Let's get cracking.
 Sure, this isn't the absolutely best and brightest holiday season ever. But look at the pluses. There has never been a better time to buy a condo in Reno, Nev., or a plane ticket from Oklahoma City to Disney World. Bargains abound!
 And we sleep the sleep of the insolvent innocent. Our retirement funds may have evaporated, and we may be envisioning ourselves deep-frying chicken nuggets on our 85th birthdays. But the good part is that it wasn't our fault. As a matter of fact, if it had been left to us, the subprime derivative never would have been invented. And a clean conscience is worth more than all the golden parachutes, indoor squash courts and $13 million vacation houses in the world. 
 Also, we're thankful that we're not Iceland.
 Of course, we're glad that George Bush is gone. Or almost. Sure does seem to be taking his time, doesn't he? 
 And we're thankful for Barack Obama. Can't get enough of him -- which is a good thing, because he's been on TV a lot. Everybody seems pleased that he plans to use Abraham Lincoln's ''Team of Rivals'' strategy to encourage a wide range of views within his administration. This sounded even better, however, before I heard that Millard Fillmore used it first. 
 Some people are upset because Obama has been dipping into the old Clinton crowd for his appointments. But really, where did you expect him to go? The Carter administration? 
 This does not qualify as bad news. Bad news would be suddenly noticing that the president-elect was filling the White House with old friends from the Illinois State Senate.
 So, we're happy. Give thanks.
 And let's be grateful that Tim Geithner is going to the Treasury Department. True, we miss the days when we could not even remember who the secretary of Treasury was, let alone refer to him by his nickname. But thank heavens that Tim is on the case, along with the other widely respected economists that Obama has recruited for his team.
 Let's also give thanks that we are not widely respected economists ourselves. Because God knows what they're going to do with this hairball.
 We should be happy that Hillary Clinton is apparently going to be secretary of state. On the down side, she does have a tendency toward disaster. But then she generally figures out what she did wrong and fixes it. 
 This is way, way better than the outgoing system of decreeing that the original stupid error is not only correct but written by the hand of God. So it'd be nice to have Hillary on board. You would not necessarily want to be the first trouble spot on her agenda, but by the time she gets to number three or four she will be terrific.
 As a side benefit, New Yorkers are enjoying the opportunity to speculate about who would be appointed to Clinton's Senate seat. We're extremely grateful to have something to take our mind off the unemployment rate. 
 So far, attention has focused on the attorney general of New York, Andrew Cuomo, who voters have named in several polls as The Only Person on This List We Have Ever Heard Of. 
 However, everybody in the State Capitol seems to agree that it would be best if Gov. David Paterson could find a Hispanic congresswoman upstate for the job. Unfortunately, there are no Hispanic congresswomen upstate. But perhaps an upstate congressman will resign and Paterson could appoint one. There's a lot of that sort of thing going around lately. 
 I am personally thankful that ''Mad Men'' got renewed, that Britney Spears is feeling better and that Joe the Plumber has found work as a spokesman for an online converter-box retailer. Even though he does not seem to appreciate the irony of reminding viewers they can apply for a $40 government rebate to help pay for the product. 
 I am also feeling O.K. about ''Twilight''being the big seasonal hit so far at the box office, although having gone through all four of the books that make up this series, I have to warn you that the vampire becomes increasingly obsessed with avoiding sex outside of marriage.
 And ever since she named her baby Bronx Mowgli, we can all be grateful that we are not related to Ashlee Simpson.
 So it's all good. And we haven't even gotten to being thankful for beloved friends and family, because I know you can do that on your own. Have a happy Thanksgiving. Enjoy your dinner. 
 Although we can never feel quite the same about turkey after that Sarah Palin video. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (69%); SQUASH (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (75%); BARACK OBAMA (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); RENO, NV, USA (73%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1128 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Deere's Profit Is Down 18% Despite Rise In Revenue

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Deere & Company's quarterly profit fell 18 percent from a year ago as weaker results in its small-equipment and credit divisions, coupled with higher expenses, overwhelmed strong sales of farm machinery. 
 Deere, the world's largest maker of agricultural equipment, also forecast weaker earnings next year, citing the global economic downturn, with equipment sales remaining flat.
 Even with strong sales of farm equipment, the company faced big challenges across its other businesses. Those divisions, which make loans and sell a range of machinery to customers like construction firms, forestry companies and homeowners, have been hit hard in recent months by the housing collapse and the wider financial crisis.
 Deere said it earned $345 million, or 81 cents a share, down from $422.1 million, or 94 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales in the period, which ended Oct. 31 and was the fourth quarter of Deere's fiscal year, rose 21 percent, to $7.40 billion. 
 Sales of agricultural equipment rose 43 percent, to $4.57 billion.
 ''Demand for productive agricultural machinery has continued to be strong due in large part to the financial health of the farm sector, which has remained positive to date,'' Robert W. Lane, Deere's chief executive, said in a statement.
 Sales of its commercial and consumer products, like lawn mowers, fell 11 percent while construction and forestry sales edged up 3 percent.
 Higher costs for raw materials, a higher-than-expected tax rate and changes in currency exchange rates cut into profit, Deere said.
 Stock in Deere, which is based in Moline, Ill., rose $2.66, to $35.76 a share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (93%); SALES FIGURES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); EXECUTIVES (51%); CURRENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: DEERE & CO (95%)

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%)

PERSON: ROBERT W LANE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1129 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Obama Picks Volcker to Head New Economic Panel

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; David Stout contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Paul Volcker, who helped tame runaway inflation in the 1980s during two terms as chairman of the Federal Reserve, has agreed to lead a new White House economic advisory committee, President-elect Barack Obama said on Wednesday. He praised Mr. Volcker as ''one of the world's foremost economic policy experts.''
 ''Paul has served under both Republicans and Democrats and is held in the highest esteem for his sound and independent judgment,'' Mr. Obama said, as the 6-foot 7-inch Mr. Volcker towered nearby. ''He has a long and distinguished record of service to our nation, and I am pleased that he has answered the call to serve once again.'' 
 Mr. Obama made the announcement at his third news conference in three days. The public appearances by the president-elect are intended to show Americans that his team is focusing on resolving the financial crisis, which Mr. Obama said Wednesday demands ''fresh thinking and bold new ideas from the leading minds across America.''
 Mr. Volcker, 81, has been providing Mr. Obama with advice on the economy for months. After briefly considering him for Treasury secretary, Mr. Obama instead asked Mr. Volcker to lead the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, a new panel to be comprised of leading figures from a variety of business sectors. The group is supposed to advise Mr. Obama on how to jump-start the economy and stabilize the financial markets.
 Austan Goolsbee, a University of Chicago economist who was a leading economic adviser to the Obama presidential campaign, will lead the staff of the advisory board, the president-elect said, calling him ''one of America's most promising economic minds, known for his path-breaking work on tax policy and industrial organization.''
 Mr. Volcker became chairman of the Federal Reserve in August 1979 as President Jimmy Carter was fighting to rein in the inflation caused by the oil shocks of 1973 and 1978. Mr. Volcker, who led the Fed until 1987, often used tactics that were unpopular, like rapid increases in interest rates. Criticized at the time for causing a recession, Mr. Volcker was later praised for the effectiveness of his efforts.
 The president-elect's decision to name Mr. Volcker to a new economic panel was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. 
 ''This board will provide that fresh perspective to me and my administration, with an infusion of ideas from across the country and from all sectors of our economy, input that will be informed by members' firsthand observations of how our efforts are impacting the daily lives of our families,'' the president-elect said. He said he would announce other members of the board in the coming weeks, and that he wanted the panel to be ''candid and unsparing'' in its assessments.
 In a brief question-answer session, Mr. Obama said his call for new ways of thinking should not be interpreted as a reflection of frustration and disappointment with the Bush administration's recent economic-recovery efforts. 
 Rather, Mr. Obama said, his proposals reflect frustration over ''eight years in which middle-class wages have gone down or, in real terms, their family incomes have been reduced.''
 ''It speaks to my frustration about all the families that I've met over the last two years who have lost their health insurance, or their pensions are in danger, young people who can't afford to go to college,'' the president-elect said. 
 ''It expresses frustration about our inability to tackle some of the long-term problems that we've been facing, and have been talking about for decades, whether it's health care, energy, an education system that's been slipping behind in critical areas like math or science,'' he said, ''and, most of all, I think, frustration with the incapacity of Washington to take bold, clear, decisive steps to deal with our economic problems.''
 Responding to a question about the holiday shopping season, which many retailers predict will be a dismal one, the president-elect said, ''What we don't want to do is get caught up in a spiral, where people pull back from the economy, businesses then pull back, jobs are reduced, and we get into a downward spiral.''
 ''What we want to do is to be sober, to be clear, to recognize that we've got some real adjustments that have to be made,'' Mr. Obama said. ''That's true with -- in individual businesses. It's true in terms of individual family budgets. It's also true for the economy as a whole.
 ''But we continue to have the best workers in the world. We continue to have the most innovation in the world. We continue to be in possession of extraordinary resources that, if we harness properly, will get this economy moving over the next couple of years but also over the next two decades or three decades.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (59%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1130 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Taxes and Tolls Sought in Plan To Save M.T.A.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Charles V. Bagli and Sam Roberts contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A state commission appointed by Gov. David A. Paterson is expected next week to propose a rescue package for the financially imperiled Metropolitan Transportation Authority that includes a new tax on corporate payrolls and tolls on the East River and Harlem River bridges, several people informed of the plan said on Wednesday. 
 The commission, led by Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the authority, will also recommend an increase next year in fares on subways, buses and commuter railroads, as well as in tolls on the bridges and tunnels it currently controls. But those increases would be much smaller than the ones the authority recently outlined in its proposed budget for next year. 
 The commission is also expected to call for minimal cuts, if any, in transit service. The plan, which is due to be released by Dec. 5, will contain recommendations to the governor, subject to passage by the Legislature. 
 The authority is facing a $1.2 billion shortfall next year and even larger deficits in the future because of the economic downturn and an ever-growing debt load. The authority relies heavily on revenue from taxes on real estate transactions, which have plummeted as the real estate boom has fizzled. 
 In a budget proposal that the authority's board will vote on next month, the authority has called for raising revenues from fares and tolls by 23 percent next year -- which could mean a base subway and bus fare of $2.50 or higher, up from $2. It also lays out a wide range of service reductions that include deep cuts in the frequency of bus and subway service, the elimination of the W and Z subway lines and the elimination of 2,800 jobs, many through layoffs. 
 The authority is hoping the commission's recommendations will allow the state to find more revenue and allow the authority to avoid carrying out its austerity plan. If the Legislature approves the recommendations, the authority could end up with a budget that contains less severe cuts in service and smaller increases in fares. 
 The people familiar with the rescue plan cautioned that it is still being refined and may change as Mr. Ravitch tries to win the support of elected officials like Mr. Paterson and state legislative leaders. Mr. Ravitch is expected to meet with the governor in the coming days to present a final version of the plan. 
 Opposition to some of the plan's central elements is sure to be strong. Despite the growing problems at the authority, most elected officials have remained publicly uncommitted about how to help it, saying only that they were awaiting the commission's report. 
 So far the strongest show of support has come from Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, who said last week that he was open to raising taxes or creating a new tax to support the authority. 
 It was not clear, however, whether Mr. Silver or other legislators would support instituting tolls for the bridges. Bridge tolls are seen by many as similar to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan to charge drivers for entering Manhattan on its busiest streets; that plan died in the Legislature this year, largely because of opposition from Assembly Democrats. 
 The idea of collecting tolls on the bridges over the East and Harlem Rivers has enticed and tormented mayors for decades. It has repeatedly been proposed and then shot down, with especially strong opposition coming from elected officials in Brooklyn and Queens and on Long Island, whose constituents account for much of the traffic on the free bridges. 
 Details of Mr. Ravitch's proposals were sketched out this week by several people involved in discussions of the plan, including two members of the state commission. All spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak for the commission. Mr. Ravitch refused to discuss the proposals. 
 The tax on payrolls, expected to be less than one half of 1 percent, would apply to businesses in the 12-county area served by the authority. It would be paid by businesses, not employees. The tax would be designed to raise $1 billion a year or more.
 It would be coupled with the new bridge tolls, which would generate about $600 million a year, after the cost of maintaining the bridges and collecting the tolls is accounted for. Drivers would pay a higher rate on the East River bridges than on the Harlem River bridges under the plan. 
 There would be no toll plazas: Most tolls would be collected through a system of E-ZPass readers. Drivers without E-ZPass would be identified and could be billed using digital cameras that snap a picture of each vehicle's license plate. 
 Control of those bridges, which are owned by the city, would be transferred to the authority under the plan, although it was not clear how that would be achieved. 
 The third main element of the proposal is a more modest increase for next year in fares and existing tolls on the bridges and tunnels already controlled by the authority. 
 That increase would allow Mr. Ravitch and his supporters to argue that the cost of running the system was being shared by all those who benefit from it. 
 The commission has also discussed including sweeteners that would reduce costs to the city and other local governments. 
 Under one such proposal, the city would stop making payments to the authority to subsidize the operations of a group of private bus lines that the authority took over at the city's request. The projected city subsidy next year is $280 million. 
 And if the authority takes over the city's bridges it would also assume maintenance costs, which for the East River bridges alone total about $10 million a year. 
 The four East River Bridges are the Brooklyn, Manhattan, Williamsburg and 59th Street Bridges. The city-controlled Harlem River bridges include the Willis Avenue, Macombs Dam, Third Avenue, Madison Avenue, 145th Street, University Heights, Washington, Broadway and Wards Island bridges.
 Mr. Ravitch has a monumental task in seeking to build a consensus for his plan at a time when the economy is sinking and the city and, in particular, the state both face huge budget problems.
 There will be many demands on the state budget next year, and officials at the authority said they hoped that elected officials were willing to address their needs first. They have said that if the state does not enact a new revenue source by March, they will have to proceed with the austerity budget. 
 Mr. Ravitch is widely credited with helping the authority recover in the early 1980s when the system was plagued by widespread mechanical failures. At that time, he showed a deft hand and sharp political acumen as he fashioned bipartisan support for the authority's first capital plan, which began the rebuilding of the transit system. He benefited from longstanding relationships with Gov. Hugh L. Carey and top legislators, but those players have long since left the stage in Albany. 
 Mr. Ravitch now must win the support of a governor attempting to pass his first budget in a time of crisis. His task is further complicated by the confusion in the State Senate. This month, Democrats won a majority there for the first time in decades, but are facing a fight over who will become the new majority leader, one of the three most powerful positions in Albany. 
 The full-fledged support of the governor will be needed to bring Albany's many competing factions -- business and labor, upstate and downstate, city and suburban -- in line behind the plan. One important ally may be the governor's new senior adviser, Marc V. Shaw, a former executive director of the authority who led a state panel looking into congestion pricing; he has been an outspoken proponent of charging tolls on the East River bridges.
 Risa B. Heller, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, said in a statement, ''The commission is still deliberating, but we look forward to receiving their final report and working with all stakeholders to ensure the fiscal integrity of the M.T.A.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (66%); LAYOFFS (64%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1131 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Leader, Showing Impatience With War, Demands Timetable From NATO

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Abdul Waheed Wafa contributed reporting.

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
President Hamid Karzai bluntly rebuked NATO on Wednesday for its faltering campaign against the Taliban and Al Qaeda and demanded a timetable for the seven-year war here to end.
 Mr. Karzai's remarks, at a news conference with the secretary general of NATO, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, reflected dwindling public support for the war here and Mr. Karzai's own political vulnerabilities. In the United States, however, the incoming administration of President-elect Barack Obama is planning a significant increase in the Afghanistan war effort as it scales back the American military deployment in Iraq.
 ''How long will this war go?'' Mr. Karzai asked. ''Afghanistan can't continue to suffer a war without end.'' 
 Mr. Karzai's comments echoed remarks he made here on Tuesday to a visiting United Nations Security Council delegation. They seemed to be part of a strategy he has adopted in recent months to appear more in control of the country and more assertive in his dealings with foreign powers, even if the populist tenor of his remarks risks alienating the foreign backers who have channeled billions of dollars into reconstruction and the counterinsurgency fight.
 Amid worsening security and economic conditions, Mr. Karzai, who faces re-election next year, has been trying to counter rising dissatisfaction and criticism that he is little more than an ineffective puppet of foreign masters.
 In recent months he has adopted, at least in public, an increasingly adversarial posture toward NATO and American forces deployed here, denouncing what he has called heavy-handed bombings and house raids that have caused civilian casualties, offended cultural sensitivities and undermined popular support for the war that routed the Taliban in late 2001.
 He has also criticized the detention of hundreds of suspects for years without trial at Bagram air base and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
 While many in the foreign diplomatic community attribute the president's criticisms to the 2009 elections, he has struck a supportive chord with many Afghans who have lost patience with the NATO-led effort, especially because of the civilian casualties.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Karzai said that if he could, he would ground American warplanes before they could inflict civilian casualties and destroy villages. 
 ''We have no other choice, we have no power to stop the planes,'' he said. ''I wish I could intercept the planes that are going to bomb Afghan villages, but that's not in my hands.''
 On Tuesday, Mr. Karzai, speaking to the Security Council delegates, assailed the foreign forces' counterinsurgency strategy. 
 ''The Afghans don't understand anymore how come a little force like the Taliban can continue to exist'' in spite of NATO's presence, the president said, according to a transcript of the remarks distributed by his office.
 ''There must be a problem somewhere,'' he said, then suggested that ''the international community didn't fight the Taliban properly.'' 
 ''Give the Afghan people a timeline,'' he said. 
 At the Wednesday news conference, with Mr. Scheffer standing beside him, Mr. Karzai refined his demand. ''I didn't ask them to set a time for their withdrawal,'' he said. ''I asked them to set a time for success.'' 
 ''Our villages have been bombarded,'' he continued, ''our people have been killed.''
 Mr. Scheffer responded that foreign forces ''will stay as long as we are welcome'' and said it was his hope that Afghan forces could assume full responsibility for safeguarding the country ''sooner rather than later.''
 Mr. Karzai's call for a timetable was received warmly by his political supporters, but assailed by some critics who said it was merely an attempt to buoy his electoral support. 
 Salih Mohammad Registani, a member of the parliamentary opposition, said that Mr. Karzai's demand was in theory a ''good thing,'' in part because it might defuse tensions among neighboring countries wary of the American presence in Afghanistan. 
 But with Mr. Karzai's political stock low and the Taliban insurgency strong, he said, the demand seems largely political.
 ''It's only because he's trying to draw support for the next election,'' Mr. Registani said. He predicted that Mr. Karzai's choice of words would ''become anti-American.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, on Wednesday criticized NATO bombing raids.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); AL-QAEDA (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (93%); JAAP DE HOOP SCHEFFER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); CUBA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1132 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Save the Economy, and the Planet

 BODY:
Environment ministers preparing for next week's talks on global warming in Poznan, Poland, have been sounding decidedly downbeat. From Paris to Beijing, the refrain is the same: This is no time to pursue ambitious plans to stop global warming. We can't deal with a financial crisis and reduce emissions at the same time. 
 There is a very different message coming from this country. President-elect Barack Obama is arguing that there is no better time than the present to invest heavily in clean energy technologies. Such investment, he says, would confront the threat of unchecked warming, reduce the country's dependence on foreign oil and help revive the American economy.
 Call it what you will: a climate policy wrapped inside an energy policy wrapped inside an economic policy. By any name, it is a radical shift from the defeatism and denial that marked President Bush's eight years in office. If Mr. Obama follows through on his commitments, this country will at last provide the global leadership that is essential for addressing the dangers of climate change. 
 In his first six months in office, Mr. Bush reneged on a campaign promise to regulate carbon dioxide and walked away from the Kyoto Protocol, a modest first effort to control global greenhouse gas emissions. 
 Still two months from the White House, Mr. Obama has convincingly reaffirmed his main climate related promises. 
 One is to impose (Congress willing) a mandatory cap on emissions aimed at reducing America's output of greenhouses gas by 80 percent by midcentury. According to mainstream scientists, that is the minimum necessary to stabilize atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide and avoid the worst consequences of global warming. Mr. Obama's second pledge is to invest $15 billion a year to build a clean economy that cuts fuel costs and creates thousands of green jobs. That includes investments in solar power, wind power, clean coal (plants capable of capturing and storing carbon emissions) and, as part of any bailout, helping Detroit retool assembly lines to build a new generation of more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 Mr. Obama has surrounded himself with like-minded people who have spent years immersed in the complexities of energy policy.
 His transition chief, John Podesta, was an early advocate of assisting the automakers and of finding low-carbon alternatives to gasoline. Peter Orszag, his choice to run the Office of Management and Budget (where environmental initiatives went to die during the Bush years) is an expert on cap-and-trade programs to limit industrial emissions of greenhouse gases.
 Success is not guaranteed. Last year, a far more modest climate-change bill fell well short of a simple majority in the Senate. At least on the surface, it seems counterintuitive to impose new regulations (and, in the short term anyway, higher energy costs) on a struggling economy. Mr. Obama will need all his oratorical power to make the opposite case.
 The historical landscape from Richard Nixon onward is littered with bold and unfulfilled promises to wean the nation from fossil fuels, especially imported oil. What is different now is the need to deal with the clear and present threat of global warming. What is also different is that the country has elected a president who believes that meeting the challenge of climate change is essential to the health of the planet and to America's economic future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (79%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (79%); WIND ENERGY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (75%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); BIOFUELS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%); PETER ORSZAG (56%); JOHN PODESTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1133 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2336 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, Nov. 27, 2008

 BODY:
international
 LAWMAKERS IN BAGHDAD
 Delay Vote on U.S. Pact
 The Iraqi Parliament put off voting on a security agreement with the United States, as Sunni lawmakers pushed for a related package of measures aimed at constraining the power of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's government. The security agreement would replace a United Nations resolution, which expires on Dec. 31, and would end the presence of American troops in Iraq in three years. PAGE A6
 A MUSEUM UNLIKE ANY OTHER
 Hidden from the public, there is an institution in Mexico City devoted to the country's dark side, the Museum of Drugs. What can be found on display are real-life samples of drugs -- including methamphetamines, heroin and marijuana, actual notes that soldiers have recovered in raids and photographs of female traffickers. The museum is a painful reminder of the unsuccessful war Mexico has waged to control illegal narcotics. PAGE A6 
 DEMANDS MADE BY AFGHAN LEADER
 President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan bluntly rebuked NATO for what he called its failed campaign against the Taliban insurgency and publicly suggested that he wanted a timetable for the seven-year-old war to end. And while some attribute the president's criticisms to the 2009 elections, because he is up for re-election, he has struck a supportive chord with many Afghans. PAGE A6
 THAI LEADER ADVISED TO QUIT
 The commander of Thailand's army bluntly advised the prime minister to step down and dissolve Parliament and told protesters who had shut down the main international airport for two days to disperse. But the prime minister rejected the general's advice in a nationally televised address. PAGE A18
 HELP FOR MAN CONVICTED OF SPYING
 A hopeful daughter is relying on a last-minute round of diplomacy and international news media attention to save her father, Wo Weihan, a medical researcher who was convicted in a closed trial of spying for Taiwan, a charge the United States has called questionable. Mr. Wo is awaiting execution at a prison hospital in Beijing and could be put to death as early as Thursday. PAGE A18
 MAYBE A CASE OF MISTAKEN IDENTITY
 The Thai fishing trawler blasted out of the water by the Indian Navy in the Gulf of Aden last week had been taken over by pirates earlier that day, the boat's owner said, suggesting that the sinking was a case of mistaken identity. Only one of the 16 crewmen on board is known to have survived. The Indian Navy has defended its actions, saying that it fired only after being fired upon. PAGE A10
 Killer, or Hero, Is Executed A18
 China Postpones Summit Meeting A18
 NATIONAL
 A DISCOVERY SHOWS POTENTIAL
 In Osteoporosis Treatment
 Osteoporosis experts used terms like ''groundbreaking'' and ''amazing'' to describe a finding that bone formation appears to be controlled by serotonin, a chemical that had been known mainly for its role in the brain. They say the discovery could have enormous implications because there is an urgent need for osteoporosis treatments that actually build bone. PAGE A25
 NEW INSIGHT INTO AGING
 Scientists trying to understand how resveratrol, a minor ingredient of red wine, improves the health and lifespan of laboratory mice have gained a new insight into aging. They believe that the integrity of chromosomes is compromised as people age, and that resveratrol works by activating a protein known as sirtuin that restores the chromosomes to health. PAGE A30
 HITTING THE GROUND RUNNING
 Democratic Congressional leaders and the nascent Obama administration are aiming to have economic, health and spending legislation waiting on the new president's desk almost the minute he gets back down Pennsylvania Avenue from the inauguration. ''There is the sense that there is no time to have a sort of laid-back transition,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. PAGE A29
 THAT QUAINT TASTE OF AMERICA
 Eight years ago, a glut of cranberries had cut prices to record lows, and farmers were going out of business. Today, despite a near-record cranberry crop this year, demand is outstripping supply. What has changed? The industry decided to start selling this uniquely American crop overseas, where Ocean Spray, which processes most of the nation's cranberry crop, started pitching the ''cranberry mystique.'' PAGE A26
 OBAMA OPTS FOR EXPERIENCE
 President-elect Barack Obama , criticized by some for his decision to select veterans of the Clinton administration for jobs in his administration, said Americans would be rightly ''troubled'' if he overlooked experience simply to create the perception of change. To amplify his point, Mr. Obama announced that he was forming the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, and named Paul Volcker, 81, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, to lead it. PAGE A29
 OBITUARIES
 SANDY RUBY, 67
 A mathematician turned entrepreneur, he founded, with a partner, a business in a dormitory room and built it into Tech Hifi, a popular electronics retailer born amid a fever for stereo equipment among college students in the 1960s. PAGE A37
 NEW YORK
 IN LOOKING FOR CLINTON SUCCESSOR, 
 Ties That Bind Can Also Strain
 In the days since word leaked that Hillary Rodham Clinton's Senate seat was likely to become available, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo's name has been widely mentioned as the obvious choice to succeed her. Some advisers to Gov. David A. Paterson say that they see Mr. Cuomo's hand behind the drumbeat proclaiming his merits; whatever the source, the jockeying puts pressure on the relationship between the two men. PAGE A26
 A RESTAURANT TURF WAR
 In October, a permit was issued for Celsius, a restaurant sponsored by the Canadian Tourism Commission, to operate out of a temporary $5,000 ''double-decker tent'' in Bryant Park. But a lawyer for the adjacent Bryant Park Grill, which is none too happy with its new neighbor, calls the structure a ''$1.5 million, 7,000-square-foot, two-story, steel-and-glass structure, with kitchen facilities.'' The Grill has gone to court to shut Celsius down. PAGE A28 
 REPORT OF QAEDA TRANSIT THREAT
 Federal authorities informed city law enforcement officials this week of a possible Qaeda plot to bomb transportation systems in and around New York City. But officials sought to play down the significance of the threat. PAGE A27 
 SPORTS
 WHEN LIONS AND THANKSGIVING
 Were a Better Pairing
 The woeful Detroit Lions will play the Tennessee Titans on their annual Thanksgiving Day game, which provides intrigue only in the sense that it will be the 12th chance for the Lions to win their first game this year. But fans of a certain age can remember when the Lions were at times among the best teams in the National Football League. PAGE B10
 GOT ANY CATCHERS?
 The Pittsburgh Pirates, whose last winning season came in 1992, have signed two pitchers who even management knows will almost certainly never wear Pirates uniforms: a pair of javelin throwers from India who have never played in a competitive baseball game. They are the first from their nation to sign contracts with a major American professional team in a move that is part marketing, part whimsy. PAGE D3
 THE VANISHING KITEBOARD RECORD
 A blistering run on his kiteboard on Namibia's Walvis Bay last October gave Sebastien Cattelan the world record for speed on a sailing craft. But about two weeks ago the World Sailing Speed Record Council belatedly decided to enforce a three-year-old policy that makes kiteboarding ineligible for the record. PAGE B13 
 BUSINESS
 CHINA AND EUROPE ANNOUNCE
 Economic Stimulus Measures
 China and Europe unleashed a spate of stimulus measures to guard against the effects of an unrelenting downturn in growth. A day after Washington unveiled $800 billion in new programs, China announced its largest interest-rate cut in more than a decade, and the European Union outlined a $260 billion wish list of measures for Europe to spend its way out of recession. PAGE B1
 MORE FOOD PRICE RISES PROJECTED
 Government and industry economists project that the overall cost of food will continue to climb in 2009, led by increases for meat and poultry. A big reason, they say, is that food companies still have not caught up with the prolonged run-up in commodity prices, which remain above historical averages despite coming down from their highs early this year. PAGE B1
 SORTING GADGET WHEAT AND CHAFF
 If you plan to do any tech shopping this holiday season -- and sellers and makers of such products hope (perhaps more than ever) that you are -- a bit of research can make the difference between a smart purchase and a waste of money. Here is a briefing on cameras, personal computers, cellphones and televisions. PAGE B6
 ART AS A PAYING PROPOSITION
 The notion of the starving artist, while romantic in its way, may understandably have limited appeal to artists. So some have begun to figure out ways to make money through art, developing businesses around their talents. They are part of a growing movement that has caught the attention of business experts and is being nudged along by both art and business schools. PAGE B5
 A BlackBerry With No Keyboard? B1
 Inquiry Into Drug Makers Widens B2
 OPEC Faces Test of Unity B3 
 HOME
 IN THE OFF-SEASON FOR PLANTS,
 Keeping Track of the Birds
 One way to spend the winter, when it's too cold to garden, is to take part in Project FeederWatch, an annual bird survey that tracks populations and migration trends. Sure, sometimes it is as mundane as counting finches; but it might also involve something as exciting as spotting a hairy woodpecker (and don't feel bad if you didn't recognize it at first). PAGE D1
 MENDING THE HOLIDAY DINGS
 The holidays often bring guests, and the guests, bless 'em, often bring scratches, nicks and dings to the furniture, floor, cabinets and such. But with some elbow grease and simple tools -- familiarize yourself with the likes of sandpaper, putty and epoxy fillers -- it is possible to reduce or eliminate any resulting eyesores. PAGE D4
 A Home of Sea, Air and Sky D1
 Arts
 LUDACRIS ROCKS THE MIC, THE STAGE
 And a Piece of Hip-Hop History
 The West Coast rap group Dilated Peoples often says the backbone of hip-hop is the D.J., but modern hip-hop has stepped away from this refrain. So when a rapper like Ludacris considers it a privilege to work with a man like DJ Premier, it can't escape notice. Neither can the guests that roll on stage like one sun eclipsing the next: LL Cool J, Jay-Z and Nas. Ludacris might hail from the dirty South, but it seems you scratch that surface and you find a New York City rapper, or at least devotee. page C1 
 AN ART COLLECTION GOES INTO HIDING
 Somewhere, out of sight and bound by metric tons of red tape, there lies a great collection of 20th century art, with works by Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and Gunther Gerzso. The works, originally amassed by a Russian producer of Mexican films and his wife, have been taken from a museum in Cuernavaca to Mexico City, where they await the outcome of a legal battle to decide exactly who owns them. Page C3 
 A FADING NOTE OF DOWNTOWN JAZZ
 A good, older wind blew through the Knitting Factory on Tuesday night, when Nasheet Waits and his band played for an audience that was half rapt, half noisy and enthusiastic for jazz that was dynamic and high impact, Nate Chinen writes. Television cameras recorded all on behalf of Mezzo TV, a French company, and the show was called by its organizer Adam Schatz ''the final night of jazz at the Knitting Factory.'' page C4 
 Style
 GETTING A FACIAL NEED NOT COST
 An Arm and a Leg Anymore
 No matter how appealing the $65 spa treatment is, it's never going to be as popular as the one that goes for $32.50. That's the song that budget spas are singing, anyway, as uptown customers find themselves walking into storefronts in Chinatown and onetime office supply closets in search of clear, glowing skin. Page E3 
 WHAT THE LAB SAYS, REALITY REFUTES
 All that running is going to give you a heart attack. Or at least that's what it could look like to the lab technicians if they rush you there while the sweat is still cooling. Blood tested directly after exercise can show abnormalities, some of which closely resemble those of a person having a heart attack, experts say. That exercise does not always have to be lengthy or strenuous, and athletes should be aware of lab results that seem to be at odds with clinical findings. page E10 
 Editorial
 SAVE THE ECONOMY, AND THE PLANET
 Call it what you will -- a climate policy wrapped inside an energy policy wrapped inside an economic policy. By any name, the plan that President-elect Barack Obama is articulating is a radical shift from the defeatism and denial that marked President Bush's eight years in office and a chance for this country to provide global leadership on the problem of global warming. Page A38
 BEIJING'S BLIND SPOT
 Despite rising calls for Tibetan independence, Tibetan exiles have wisely reaffirmed the Dalai Lama's ''middle way'' of nonviolence toward China and autonomy for Tibet. China's leaders are unwisely refusing to pursue a compromise. Page A38
 SEWING UP THE SAFETY NET
 Missing from the discussion about the faltering economy is the recession's impact on 37 million Americans who already are living at or below the poverty line -- and the millions more who will inevitably join their ranks as the downturn worsens. Page A38
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 We have many things to be thankful for today, people. For example, George W. Bush is almost gone and ''Mad Men'' got renewed. Page A39
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 A Thanksgiving tribute to Mukhtar Mai, a courageous woman who used compensation money awarded to her after she was gang-raped to build a network of services in rural Pakistan. Page A39
 THANKSGIVING AT DAN AND JANE'S
 In an Op-art, Dave Eggers, the author of the novel ''What Is the What,'' presents a four-act play about a family too big for just four rooms. Page A39

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NAVIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); OSTEOPOROSIS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (86%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); TALIBAN (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); CANNABIS (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); PRISONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); HEROIN (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (65%); MARINE VESSELS (65%); ESPIONAGE (63%); DISMISSALS (60%); METHAMPHETAMINE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); HAMAD KARZAI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); THAILAND (86%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1134 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: New White House and Congress Hope to Have Bills Ready by Inauguration

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Democratic Congressional leaders and the nascent Obama administration are moving quickly to assert control over federal policy, aiming to have economic, health and spending legislation waiting on the new president's desk almost the minute he gets back down Pennsylvania Avenue from the inauguration.
 Given the severity of the problems facing the nation, officials on Capitol Hill and in the Obama team say Democrats have put their schedule on fast-forward rather than allowing the usual lull between the start of the new Congress, this time on Jan. 6, and President-elect Barack Obama's swearing-in two weeks later. 
 Lawmakers and staff members are already laying the groundwork for a running start, and Congress is scheduled to remain in session once its expanded Democratic majorities are sworn in.
 ''There is the sense that there is no time to have a sort of laid-back transition,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. ''It is being driven by crisis. Clearly, when you are confronted with the challenges we are confronted with, the public, the banking community needs to see that action is being taken.''
 The ambitious Democratic plan and the growing rapport between the new administration and Congress could both be bolstered by the high-level Congressional expertise being absorbed into the executive branch.
 Not only was Mr. Obama a senator for four years and Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware in Congress for 36 years, but Rahm Emanuel, the incoming White House chief of staff, was most recently a member of the House leadership. 
 In addition, the former Democratic Senate leader Tom Daschle, a mentor of Mr. Obama, is expected to be the secretary of health and human services, applying his intimate knowledge of the workings of Congress as the administration tackles national health care. 
 Philip Schiliro, a longtime Congressional aide with deep knowledge of the membership, will be the administration's point man on Capitol Hill, continuing a role that he took on for the Obama campaign in July. 
 Peter R. Orszag, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, was recently named Mr. Obama's budget director, and on Wednesday Rob Nabors, staff director of the House Appropriations Committee, was chosen to be Mr. Orszag's deputy. Capitol Hill staff members are filling less prominent positions as well. 
 Still, such close relationships do not mean that tension between Congress and the White House will not break out. Democratic leaders are already somewhat divided on how much should be spent on an initiative to spur the economy, and there is certain to be some disagreement on whether new spending and tax cuts should be paid for rather than added to the deficit. 
 Jason Furman, a top economic adviser to Mr. Obama, met at the Capitol last week with members of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog coalition. Mr. Furman used the gathering to initiate talks about budget rules, including a potential law requiring balanced budgets to formalize the pay-as-you-go approach favored by the coalition. 
 ''The Obama folks have made contact with myself and other Blue Dogs, and basically have said that look, the economy is Priority No. 1, but fiscal responsibility is a part of what they believe in, too,'' said Representative Baron P. Hill, Democrat of Indiana, who attended the meeting. 
 But as it seeks to speed its agenda, the new administration will be trying to steer Congressional leaders and chairmen who may be reluctant to surrender too much of the power they regained from Republicans in 2006. 
 ''Many members of Congress have been there many years, and there are some people who just two years ago got back the gavel, who now have to cede some of their authority to the incoming administration,'' said Howard Paster, who was President Bill Clinton's first director of legislative affairs. ''They are going to be supportive, but they are also not going to cede all of their authority. Human nature doesn't allow for that.''
 But Mr. Paster and others credit the new administration with a quick start in its dealings with Congress and say that should pay early dividends. Mr. Paster noted that Mr. Schiliro's appointment as the chief liaison to Congress was announced within a week of the election, while his own appointment to that job did not occur until January 1993.
 Democratic Congressional aides say they have been in regular touch with the Obama transition team about a potential aid package for automakers, which would be voted on in December. Congressional leaders, working with the incoming administration, also plan to assemble a major economic package that could combine tax cuts, public works projects and energy programs.
 The Democrats would also like to win quick enactment of an expansion of a children's health insurance program that President Bush blocked twice with vetoes.
 In addition, Mr. Hoyer, the majority leader, said Congress would like to finish up spending bills that stalled last year and have them ready for the president so he could focus on the next year's budget. For that, Democrats are counting on some Republicans to join them, motivated by what is expected to be a bleak holiday shopping season and continuing economic gloom. 
 Republican leaders, however, while pledging cooperation with the new administration, have expressed skepticism about the Democrats' economic proposals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TOM DASCHLE (59%); JOE BIDEN (59%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); STENY HOYER (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1135 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Dow and S.&P. Rise for a 4th Day Despite Some Bleak Economic News

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
For the first time since last spring, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index managed to advance for four consecutive days. 
 The Dow rose 247 points Wednesday, led by big gains at General Motors, the beleaguered auto giant, and the aluminum giant Alcoa.
 Investors seem to have regained a bit of confidence since the government threw another multibillion-dollar lifeline to Citigroup on Sunday night, easing fears of an October-style decline in the markets. Soothing words from a host of federal officials, including President-elect Barack Obama, who held a news conference on the economy every day this week, also helped calm the markets. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama announced that Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chief, would lead a new economic advisory committee for the White House. Stocks, already up in the morning, moved higher after the news.
 Volume was light on Wednesday, however, and many investors left for their Thanksgiving travels before the closing bell. 
 Some Wall Street traders worry that the market could falter again as the economic slump deepens. Nevertheless, good news of any sort is welcome on Wall Street these days, and there were a few encouraging signs that maybe, this time, the strength would stick. 
 The optimistic mood survived an early challenge from a series of bleak economic reports, including the biggest monthly downturn in consumer spending since the terrorist attacks of 2001. Jobless claims stayed high, near the levels traditionally associated with a recession, and durable goods orders plunged. Sales of new homes were weak as well.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 247.14 points, or 2.91 percent, to 8,726.61. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 30.29 points, or 3.53 percent, to 887.68. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 67.37 points, or 4.6 percent, to 1,532.10, on strength in shares of technology companies. 
 Shares of General Motors gained 35 percent, or $1.25, to $4.81, on speculation that the automaker might receive a rescue package from the government. 
 Alcoa jumped 8 percent, or 78 cents, to $10.48.
 The markets will be closed on Thursday for Thanksgiving Day, and will reopen for a shortened session on Friday.
 Oil prices rose $3.67, to settle at $54.44 a barrel in New York trading.
 The energy sector was the leading gainer among industry groups, following the surge in crude oil prices. Analysts said a move by the Chinese government to cut interest rates could stimulate the country's economy and revive demand for energy.
 OPEC ministers are set to meet over the weekend to discuss measures to support oil prices.
 Exxon Mobil jumped $2.78, or 3.6 percent, to $80.89 a share, and Chevron rose $3.40, or 4.44 percent, to $79.93.
 The Treasury's 10-year bill rose 1 4/32, to 106 19/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.98 percent, down from 3.11 percent Tuesday.
 Stocks dropped in Europe and stayed mixed in Asia, amid a worsening outlook for the global economy. The FTSE-100 in London lost 0.44 percent; the DAX in Frankfurt was unchanged; and the CAC-40 in Paris fell 1.24 percent.
 ''There's starting to be a sense that by the end of 2009 the light will be visible at the end of the tunnel in the U.S. economy,'' said Franz Wenzel, deputy director for investment strategy at Axa Investment Managers in Paris. But investors in Europe expect 2009 to be ''a lost year,'' he said, with a ''substantial recession.'' 
 The collapse of a $66 billion hostile bid by BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, for its rival Rio Tinto also weighed on sentiment, he said. BHP announced on Tuesday that it was ending its bid because the credit crisis had made a deal too risky. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Volume was light on Wednesday, as many investors left for their Thanksgiving travels early. On the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, above, traders watched a rally extend for a fourth day.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RECESSION (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NEW HOME SALES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (68%); THANKSGIVING (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1136 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; KREMLIN RULES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2288 words

HEADLINE: Nationalism of Putin's Era Veils Sins of Stalin's

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: TOMSK, Russia 

 BODY:
For years, the earth in this Siberian city had been giving up clues: a scrap of clothing, a fragment of bone, a skull with a bullet hole.
 And so a historian named Boris P. Trenin made a plea to officials. Would they let him examine secret archives to confirm that there was a mass grave here from Stalin's purges? Would they help him tell the story of the thousands of innocent people who were said to have been carted from a prison to a ravine, shot in the head and tossed over? 
 The answer was no, and Mr. Trenin understood what many historians in Russia have come to realize: Under Vladimir V. Putin, the attitude toward the past has changed. The archives that Mr. Trenin was seeking, stored on the fourth floor of a building in Tomsk, in boxes stamped ''K.G.B. of the U.S.S.R.,'' would remain sealed.
 The Kremlin in the Putin era has often sought to maintain as much sway over the portrayal of history as over the governing of the country. In seeking to restore Russia's standing, Mr. Putin and other officials have stoked a nationalism that glorifies Soviet triumphs while playing down or even whitewashing the system's horrors. 
 As a result, across Russia, many archives detailing killings, persecution and other such acts committed by the Soviet authorities have become increasingly off limits. The role of the security services seems especially delicate, perhaps because Mr. Putin is a former K.G.B. officer who ran the agency's successor, the F.S.B., in the late 1990s.
 To historians like Mr. Trenin, the closing of these archives reflects a larger truth. Russia, they say, has never fully grappled with and exposed the sins of Communism, never embarked on the kind of truth and reconciliation process pursued by other countries, like South Africa, after regimes were overthrown.
 There are undoubtedly many reasons for this. For one, after the Soviet Union fell, Russia underwent an economic upheaval, and people were focused on just surviving. Still, now that the country is more stable, the Kremlin, if anything, is moving toward more secrecy. It tends to be hostile toward those who want to study the grimmest aspects of Soviet rule, as if attempts to diminish the Soviet image will discredit the current leadership.
 ''They say Russia has gotten up off its knees, and this is why we should be proud of our past,'' Mr. Trenin said. ''The theme of Stalin's repressions is harsh and gloomy and far from heroic. So they say that this is why it should be gradually pushed aside. They say the less we know about it, the better we will live.''
 His comments were echoed in interviews with more than a dozen historians across Russia, all of whom said they had had far greater access in the 1990s to archives of the K.G.B. and other security services. They spoke of the years immediately after the fall of the Soviet Union as a time when scholarship flowered, saying that they had a chance to delve into historical episodes that had long been concealed.
 ''There was a period when we could go to the archives as if we were going to our workplace,'' Mr. Trenin said.
 Under Mr. Putin, the historians said, these records have usually been out of reach. Mr. Putin, who served two terms as president, is now prime minister, after installing his protege Dmitri A. Medvedev as his successor in May.
 Officials at the security archives, which are now mostly controlled by the F.S.B. and the Interior Ministry, typically reject requests for access by citing a need to protect state secrets and personal privacy. (Though a vast majority of people mentioned in records from Stalin's time are obviously dead.)
 The director of the F.S.B. archives in Moscow, Vasily Khristoforov, has said all records related to ''ways and methods of operational investigative activity'' will never be declassified.
 The chill over the Soviet security archives has not only thwarted inquiries into events of the 1930s under Stalin, when millions of people were executed or died in prison camps. It has also prevented historians from gaining a better understanding of other aspects of Soviet persecution, like the hounding and the deportation of dissidents through the 1980s.
 And it has aggravated tensions between Russia and its neighbors. The Kremlin, for example, has recently rebuffed requests from Poland to release documents related to the World War II massacre of 22,000 Polish officers and others in the Katyn Forest and elsewhere in Russia. For decades, the Soviets blamed the Nazis for the killings; Mikhail S. Gorbachev was the first leader to admit that Soviet security services carried them out.
 What is more, the restrictions have frustrated Russians who are seeking the truth about their families and want future generations to be aware of what once happened here.
 In 1937, at the height of Stalin's purges, a man named Cheslav Yasinski was summarily executed in Tomsk after being accused of counterrevolutionary activities. For years, his wife was told that he was alive and cutting trees at one of the prison camps known as gulags, and she continued sending him food packages. She later received an official letter asserting, falsely, that he had died of a heart attack.
 Seventy years later, his great-grandson Yuri Kultamakov sought Mr. Yasinski's file from the F.S.B., hoping that the information would help him make peace with his family's past in Siberia.
 While barring historians, the government says it will make an exception and allow individuals access to their relatives' files from the security archives. But this policy is not as open as it seems, as Mr. Kultamakov discovered.
 The F.S.B. offered him a heavily redacted file, with many pages removed. Officials said their policy was to withhold documents that included the names of any other people, including those who carried out persecution or were informers.
 ''I would like to know everything, but received little,'' Mr. Kultamakov said.
 The Past Is a Battleground
 Here in Tomsk, 1,900 miles east of Moscow, Mr. Trenin had long been drawn to an area called Kashtak.
 It was once an empty expanse with a large ravine, but in recent decades the city filled it in. Yet rumors of a mass grave persisted, and in 1989, before the Soviet collapse, Mr. Trenin and a colleague, Vasily A. Khanevich, conducted a small, unauthorized dig there and found two skulls with bullet holes.
 Like so many people in Siberia, Mr. Trenin, 62, and Mr. Khanevich, 52, have a personal connection to the sorrows of Stalin's reign. Mr. Trenin's family was deported to the region, and Mr. Khanevich's grandfathers were executed by the secret police.
 Throughout the 1990s, when ground was broken on construction projects in Kashtak, laborers repeatedly uncovered remains. Sometimes people tending gardens came across bones.
 By the end of the decade, Mr. Trenin said, some retired K.G.B. officers were acknowledging what had happened. They said that twice a week, during the purges of the late 1930s, prisoners were executed and thrown into the ravine.
 Mr. Trenin said he believed he had enough information to make the case that he should receive access to the secret documents. He lobbied officials for permission to conduct a full investigation into the events there, and to establish a memorial.
 But it was too late. Mr. Putin had become president. The F.S.B. would not allow access to the records, and at subsequent meetings in 2002 and 2003, city officials, who had close connections to the security services, would not help Mr. Trenin either.
 ''He had an absolute absence of interest,'' Mr. Trenin said of one city official, a former K.G.B. agent. ''There was this sense of, it happened, it was there, no need to look any further.''
 The former K.G.B. agent, Aleksandr A. Melnikov, who is a deputy mayor, said in an interview that Kashtak represented an enormous calamity, but that ''it had been studied in depth.''
 Mr. Melnikov said he was surprised to hear of Mr. Trenin's difficulties.
 ''Today, there is no problem obtaining access to the archives of that period, absolutely not,'' Mr. Melnikov said. ''If they encounter a problem, they can appeal to me. I will provide every assistance to them to get the material that they are interested in.''
 Told of Mr. Melnikov's comments, Mr. Trenin sighed. ''That's absurd,'' he said.
 Mr. Trenin and Mr. Khanevich are active in Memorial, a human rights group, and operate a small museum dedicated to 23,000 people killed under Stalin in Tomsk. The museum is in a former jail used by the N.K.V.D., Stalin's secret police, the predecessor to the K.G.B.
 Exhibits are displayed in a gloomy warren of small cells where people were tortured and crowded in 20 at a time. But there is little about Kashtak. Mr. Trenin said he believed that more than 15,000 people were executed there, but without access to records, it is impossible to be certain.
 A few years ago, officials erected a large cross at Kashtak as a memorial. But it is in an isolated spot overlooking a major road, and is rarely visited.
 To Mr. Khanevich, whose grandfathers were rounded up and executed one day in 1938 in a Siberian village, this indifference stings.
 ''Russia positions itself as a completely different democratic country with democratic values, but at the same time, it does not reject, it does not disassociate itself and does not condemn the regime that preceded it,'' he said. ''On the contrary, it defends it.''
 Scrounging Information
 Mr. Trenin and other historians emphasized that it was not as if the security archives had been thrown open in the 1990s. They said that officials had to be persuaded to provide access, but that there was a spirit of cooperation that no longer existed. 
 Archives from Stalin's secret police have become a flash point because of the rise of a movement that has sought to idolize Stalin as a leader who defeated Nazi Germany, spurred industrialization and made the Soviet Union a superpower.
 Last year, the Kremlin promoted a study guide for high school teachers that deems Stalin ''one of the most successful leaders of the U.S.S.R.,'' while describing his ''cruel exploitation'' of the population. Mr. Putin himself has acknowledged the losses under Stalin, but has said Russians should not be made to feel ashamed of them.
 ''We do have bleak chapters in our history; just look at events starting from 1937,'' Mr. Putin said at a meeting where the study guide was presented. ''And we should not forget these moments in our past.''
 ''But other countries have also known their bleak and terrible moments,'' he said. ''In any event, we have never used nuclear weapons against civilians, and we have never dumped chemicals on thousands of kilometers of land or dropped more bombs on a tiny country than were dropped during the entire Second World War, as was the case in Vietnam.''
 In interviews, F.S.B. and other security officials said they had in fact declassified many documents. Asked about complaints from historians, Oleg K. Matveyev, a senior official at the F.S.B. archives in Moscow, said some people wanted to depict Soviet rule only negatively.
 ''To draw the line at 1991 and say, everything before was black, and now has come white, as is done in many countries and regions in the former republics of the Soviet Union, we have nothing like that here,'' he said. ''We are more careful about our past.''
 Mr. Matveyev added that it was vital that the F.S.B. protect the privacy of people mentioned in the records.
 It is a particular concept of privacy. The F.S.B. does not keep names secret; in fact, it has provided nonprofit groups like Memorial with lists of those persecuted, which have been published in so-called memory books. But it will not allow access to the files, preventing historians from gaining insight into the security services.
 The F.S.B. has also promised that many records will be declassified after 75 years. But historians said the regulation was often ignored, adding that the F.S.B. tended to declassify documents that did not present the security services in a bad light.
 A prominent historian, Sergei A. Krasilnikov of Novosibirsk State University in Siberia, said officials routinely cited personal privacy and other regulations to block access. But it is a ruse, he said.
 ''The order has been given to rehabilitate Russian and Soviet statehood in all epochs and in all times -- for all the czars and general secretaries,'' he said. ''This is why we have all these restrictions on access to the archives, because the archives allow us to show more profoundly the mechanisms of power, the mechanisms of decision-making, the consequences of these decisions, which were very often tragic for society.''
 Unable to obtain records from the security archives, Mr. Trenin and Mr. Khanevich gather them from relatives and researchers who acquired them in the 1990s. They scrounge information from more open Soviet archives, like those covering industry or local government.
 Sometimes, they feel despondent, as when they hear of polls that reveal that a majority of young people believe that Stalin did ''more right than wrong.'' Yet they also find signs to be hopeful.
 Mr. Khanevich persuaded the Interior Ministry to have employees visit the museum as part of their training, and the other day 15 lawyers and investigators came by. Some appeared moved, saying they had not realized the scope of the killings.
 ''These are people with epaulets, and they have to carry out orders, but the orders are not always humane and sometimes they are criminal,'' Mr. Khanevich said. ''They need to think about whether it's the right thing to do to carry them out. Of course, they may lose their epaulets. But they will remain human beings, with their dignity intact.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A PAINFUL PAST: A museum in Tomsk, Russia, is dedicated to people killed under Stalin. It was once a jail used by his secret police, the N.K.V.D.
CONCEALED TRUTHS: The archives in Tomsk hold Communist Party documents, left, and, on a higher floor, sealed security records from the Soviet period.
 STALIN'S VICTIMS Boris P. Trenin, a historian and human rights activist, in Tomsk, where more than 15,000 people are said to have been executed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) MAP: Tomsk, Russia 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SHOOTINGS (78%); HEAD INJURIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1137 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: New Efforts For Stimulus In Europe And China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and STEPHEN CASTLE; David Jolly and Anahad O'Connor contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Responding to rapidly deteriorating conditions in the global economy, China and Europe unleashed a spate of stimulus measures on Wednesday to battle the effects of an unrelenting downturn in growth. 
 A day after Washington unveiled $800 billion in new programs to tame a financial crisis that has radiated around the world, China announced its largest interest rate cut in more than a decade, and the European Union outlined a 200 billion euro ($258 billion) wish list of measures for Europe to spend its way out of recession.
 The crisis that began with America's subprime lending problems is tightening its grip on countries that grew heavily dependent on one another as the forces of globalization boomed. Now, many are in or nearing declines of a magnitude not seen since the early 1980s, leading officials to scramble to find ways to blunt the financial and social impact. 
 In the latest sign of worries in China, where slowing growth has shorn millions of jobs from the economy in just a few months, the central bank's decision to cut benchmark rates by 1.08 percentage points -- the largest since the Asian financial crisis of a decade ago -- came one day after a violent protest near Hong Kong in which hundreds of jobless workers attacked police vehicles. Five days earlier, top officials warned growth was still eroding and that dissent and threats to social stability would be crushed.
 The plan in Europe, which is likely to have a more immediate impact, will be critical to bolstering growth and employment in the European Union's 27 member countries, European Commission officials said. The downturn in the bloc has deepened as the American and Asian economies worsen, and the 15 nations that have adopted the euro as their currency have already fallen into recession. While the decade-long use of the euro has helped insulate the countries from a deeper shock, some European economists have nonetheless begun speaking of 2009 as a lost year. 
 ''Exceptional times call for exceptional measures,'' Jose Manuel Barroso, the commission president, said at a news conference unveiling the proposal. ''The jobs and well-being of our citizens are at stake.'' 
 Europe's stimulus package, if fully adopted, would represent around 1.5 percent of gross domestic product. Mr. Barroso stressed that the European Union's rules limiting the budget deficits of member states would remain in place but would be applied with maximum flexibility. While European governments are being asked to spend an average of 1.2 percent of their gross domestic products on fiscal stimulus, not every country would be expected to take part.
 Still, the plan's success depends on the willingness of larger European countries to inject big sums into their economies.
 The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, plans to introduce what he called a ''massive'' new stimulus package next week, including help for the auto and construction industries. But with vast sums of taxpayer money already committed to efforts to recover from the financial crisis, Germany, the bloc's largest economy, warned that excessive government obligations could also create unintended consequences. 
 ''We should not get into a race for billions,'' the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, told the Bundestag, the lower house of Parliament, on Wednesday.
 Europe's slowdown has ricocheted to Asia, which had counted on being able to export steadily to Europe while a drastic pullback in the United States slowed orders from one of its biggest customers. 
 Japan, the world's second-largest economy, has officially slipped into recession, hurt by weak export growth and steep cuts in corporate spending amid the worsening global slowdown.
 Yet almost nowhere has the impact been felt more sharply than in China, where the economy is beginning to weaken after five years of growth above 10 percent, raising concern about the potential for social unrest. Earlier this month, Beijing announced a sweeping $586 billion economic stimulus plan to combat the effects of the global slowdown as a toxic combination of slowing export and investment growth and slumping stock and property markets eat away at consumer confidence. 
 In recent years, the Chinese Communist Party has based its claim to legitimacy to a considerable extent on its ability to deliver a strong economic expansion. The party has watched with alarm as growth has slowed sharply, and the action taken by the central bank on Wednesday was a further sign that the government was trying to stem the bleeding swiftly.
 In export-dependent southeastern China, one of Hong Kong's best-known toy companies, the Kader Group, said workers had damaged computers Monday at its factory in nearby Dongguan and had taken a small amount of cash after their employment contracts expired and were not renewed.
 The Guangzhou Daily, a newspaper, reported on Tuesday that 500 workers laid off from the toy factory had rushed into its administrative offices on Monday night, smashing windows and breaking computers. Three men and two women were injured and five police vehicles were damaged before the protesters were dispersed, the newspaper said, publishing a photo of a police van that had been turned upside down and had its doors torn off. In a possible hint that the incident might have been even larger, the newspaper said that another 2,000 people were watching the protest. 
 The People's Bank of China said its effort to help rekindle economic activity by lowering the rates banks are permitted to charge on one-year loans or pay on one-year deposits would take effect on Thursday. The central bank has already cut the benchmark lending rate three times since Sept. 16 and the benchmark deposit rate twice, by 0.27 of a percentage point each time. Combined, the moves are expected to leave businesses and consumers with lower interest payments and more money to spend.
 The one-year lending rate is important in China because banks use it to calculate other interest rates with different maturities, adjusted for the creditworthiness of the borrower.
 The bank also reduced the percentage of assets that large banks must hold as reserves by 1 percentage point, and cut the reserve requirement by 2 percentage points for smaller banks. This means that banks are free to lend more of their assets to consumers and businesses. While demand for residential mortgages has weakened as the real estate market has slowed, many small and medium-size businesses have been eagerly seeking loans to help tide them over as sales fall with the economic slowdown.
 To give banks an extra incentive to lend money instead of hoarding reserves, the central bank also lowered by 0.27 percentage points the interest rates that it pays banks for reserves deposited with it.
 ''The degree of benefit realized from China's monetary stimulus will hinge on whether banks increase their lending to the most troubled sectors of the economy,'' said Jing Ulrich, the chairman of China equities at JPMorgan.
 Qu Hongbin, the chief China economist at HSBC, said in a research note that he expected the central bank to reduce interest rates by another 2 to 2.5 percentage points by June, and the reserve requirement by another 4 percentage points.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers laid off by the Kader Group, a Chinese toymaker, surrounded a police vehicle damaged on Tuesday in violent protests of the company's job cuts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
 Jose Manuel Barroso, left, president of the European Commission, spoke to the news media on Wednesday about the stimulus plan. Joaquin Almunia, right, is an economic official for Europe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES HERMAN/REUTERS)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); RECESSION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); RIOTS (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (76%); JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); CHINA (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1138 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: New Medicaid Rules Allow States to Set Premiums and Higher Co-Payments

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A new federal rule gives states sweeping authority to charge premiums and higher co-payments for doctors' services, hospital care and prescription drugs provided to low-income people under Medicaid. 
 The rule, published Tuesday in the Federal Register, is expected to save money for the federal government and the states. But public health experts and even some federal officials predicted that many low-income people would delay or forgo care because of the higher charges.
 Under the rule, states can, in many cases, deny care or coverage to Medicaid beneficiaries who do not pay their premiums or their share of the cost for a particular item or service. 
 Governors have sought this kind of discretion for a long time, saying they wanted Medicaid to look more like private health insurance.
 The rule, which is meant to carry out a law signed by President Bush in February 2006, represents a sea change in Medicaid.
 ''It's a tremendous break with the past in terms of what low-income people are expected to pay for their health care,'' said Sara Rosenbaum, a professor of health law and policy at George Washington University.
 Higher co-payments may be an attractive option for states struggling to rein in Medicaid costs in the current fiscal crisis, which has reduced state revenues even as the need for assistance grows. Rather than restricting eligibility, states can charge more. 
 ''This flexibility will help protect the program from cutbacks in a time of tight state budgets,'' the administration said in a preamble to the final rule.
 The administration acknowledged that ''some individuals may choose to delay or forgo care rather than pay their cost-sharing obligations.'' 
 Public health experts said such delays could cause serious health problems, requiring more expensive care at a later date. Many Medicaid recipients have chronic illnesses, use numerous prescription drugs and frequently visit doctors, so the burden of even modest co-payments can become substantial.
 But Jeff Nelligan, a spokesman for the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said Wednesday: ''States are in the best position to determine the appropriate levels of cost sharing. This rule gives states more tools to help slow spending growth, while maintaining needed coverage, which was the intent of Congress.''
 When the rule was proposed this year, it drew criticism from the American Academy of Pediatrics, the National Association for Home Care and AARP, among other groups. They said that higher co-payments would make it more difficult for low-income children, homebound people and older Americans to get care.
 David P. Sloane, senior vice president of AARP, said, ''Denying necessary care to people who are unable to pay is unconscionable,'' as well as fiscally unwise.
 A coalition of groups serving people with AIDS said, ''It is well documented that even nominal levels of cost sharing result in people going without medically necessary care.'' 
 Under the rule, the administration estimated, Medicaid recipients will pay more than $1.3 billion in co-payments over five years, and the federal government will save $1.4 billion, while states will save $1.1 billion. The savings would result not only from the collection of co-payments, but also from reduced use of services.
 The co-payments will help Medicaid recipients become ''more educated and efficient health care consumers,'' the administration said. 
 The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that 13 million low-income people, about a fifth of Medicaid recipients, will face new or higher co-payments. Most of the savings result from ''decreased use of services,'' it said.
 The rule allows states to establish a sliding scale for premiums and co-payments. The total of these charges, for all members of a family, cannot exceed 5 percent of the family's income. 
 For Medicaid recipients with incomes at or below the poverty level ($17,600 for a family of three), a state can charge co-payments up to $3.40 for a doctor's visit or other service. The maximum amount will be updated each year to reflect medical inflation.
 For Medicaid recipients with incomes from 100 percent to 150 percent of the poverty level ($17,600 to $26,400 for a family of three), states can generally require a beneficiary to pay up to 10 percent of what the state pays for a service, like a doctor's visit.
 And for Medicaid recipients with incomes above that level, states can generally charge co-payments up to 20 percent of what they pay. For a $150 drug, the co-payment could be as much as $30.
 Under the rule, states can use co-payments to promote the use of preferred brand-name drugs and to discourage the use of hospital emergency rooms for routine care. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PEDIATRICS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); CHILDREN (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); HOME HEALTH CARE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1139 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: A Bailout for Some. And the Rest?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''All Fall Down,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Nov. 26), was exceptional.
 The general thesis of the column was that a near-total breakdown of responsibility at every link in our financial chain got us here. Mr. Friedman also stated that we either bail out the people who brought us here or risk a total systemic crash. 
 Recently, I lost my job in health care because of a reduction in work force. I found a job at less than half my previous salary. I am in a systemic crash at my house. Who will bail out people like me who have been responsible and hardworking? 
 I have no debts other than a mortgage on devalued property and student loans for my daughter's college education. Yet there are millions like me who do not have lobbyists or political action committees to bail us out or represent our interests.
 J. Michael Gatch Birmingham, Ala., Nov. 26, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman's comments were scathing. Many became wealthy, indeed, fabulously wealthy, on the ignorance of borrowers and the opportunity of lax regulations. The risk was bundled and sold on down the line. 
 But the damning fact remains: The equity of the wealthy who profited from this consensus greed is going nowhere, while this winter promises to be colder and darker for the rest of us as we open our pocketbooks to pay for it all.
 John Milovich San Francisco, Nov. 26, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Thomas L. Friedman correctly describes the culpability for the banking meltdown at every level of the financial establishment. He relates Michael Lewis's example of an obviously unqualified borrower at the bottom of the chain, and he also concludes that not only will our kids pay, but ''we're all going to be working harder for less.''
 Well, I'm an architect, single, and I've been saving for years for a deposit to buy a home (didn't hear about the giveaways, I guess), and I was just about to make an offer on an adorable, modest home north of the city (half the price of Mr. Lewis's egregious example), when four weeks ago I was laid off because of this financial downturn. 
 In other words, I was doing everything right, and now, if only I were working harder for less, I'd be a lot better off than I am! Needless to say, there are not a lot of opportunities for architects these days.
 Roy Pertchik New York, Nov. 26, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The more I read about the financial crisis, the more I hear about Robert E. Rubin and his major role. 
 It's really frustrating to see President-elect Barack Obama, whom I voted for, taking advice from him. It seems to me like a continuation of the old habit of working with well-connected people because they are well connected. 
 Mr. Rubin and Alan Greenspan worked hard for many of the same ends, and somehow Mr. Rubin is still influencing our soon-to-be president.
 Andrew Shantz Paterson, N.J., Nov. 26, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman blames bankers (''overrated dopes'' or ''greedy cynics'') and a breakdown in personal responsibility and government regulation for the current crisis.
 In my almost 90 years I have lived through a number of depressions, recessions and recoveries, which seem to come with regularity whether caused by the aforementioned or other reasons. We have not yet figured out how to avoid the business cycle, defined as a recurring succession of business conditions, loosely divisible into periods of prosperity, crisis, liquidation, depression and recovery. 
 Knowing this, those known as financial experts still lack the foresight to see when the crisis is coming.
 Saul Ricklin Bristol, R.I., Nov. 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LAYOFFS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); DEVALUATION (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (56%) ALABAMA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008



1140 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: High Schools Take On Doping With No Consensus on Strategy

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: OPELOUSAS, La. 

 BODY:
The sheriff of St. Landry Parish announced in July that an undercover investigation of area gyms had produced the largest anabolic steroid bust ever in this rural Cajun county.
 In an investigation that has identified about 100 suspected steroid users and 15 dealers in the county, 10 people have been arrested, including two former high school football players, the sheriff said. He added that of those 100 suspected users, as many as 20 were high school athletes. That number stunned educators and law enforcement officials who had considered performance-enhancing drugs to be more of a big-city problem.
 ''I think there's more steroid use, after talking to my investigators, in sports activities than originally thought,'' said Bobby J. Guidroz, the sheriff of St. Landry Parish, population 90,000, about two hours west-northwest of New Orleans. 
 The use of muscle-building steroids by teenagers is of particular concern because it can prematurely close growth plates, doctors say. But throughout the country, efforts to deter performance-enhancing drug use among high school athletes have had indeterminate success, leaving doping experts and school officials wondering how best to tackle a problem that is not always readily apparent. 
 Drug testing is expensive, scattered and full of loopholes. Some believe that education is a better preventive measure than testing, but experts question methods frequently used to inform athletes about the health hazards and ethical considerations of doping.
 In Cajun country and elsewhere, law enforcement officers and antidoping experts say, the problem can be exacerbated by coaches and parents who allow or even encourage their children to use steroids in hopes of building championship seasons and winning college scholarships.
 Sheriff Guidroz said his investigators received tips -- never confirmed -- that one coach in St. Landry Parish and another coach who had left the county encouraged athletes to use steroids. A former strength and conditioning coach for the girls' basketball team in Oregon City, Ore., was fired in May as part of an ongoing federal investigation into whether he sold steroids to a police officer in Canby, Ore. No charges have been filed.
 Some studies indicate that the use of anabolic steroids is in decline in high schools. A survey by the University of Michigan revealed that 2.2 percent of the nation's 12th graders admitted in 2007 that they had used steroids at least once, down from 4 percent in 2002. And school districts report more urgent problems with alcohol and recreational drugs like marijuana. Still, many antidoping experts said they believed the numbers on steroid use were significantly underreported, especially in sports like football that put a premium on strength.
 ''What I'm getting from school districts and from pediatricians who do annual physicals is they're irate about these kids getting bigger and bigger -- 10 or 20 pounds heavier, all buffed up -- and they really want something done,'' said Don Catlin, the chief executive of Anti-Doping Research, a nonprofit firm in Southern California.
 Charles Yesalis, a retired Penn State professor and an expert on performance-enhancing drugs, said: ''We could well be past the point -- unless something dramatic happens, like 20 kids dying -- of doing anything about this. I'm not even sure people want to take care of the problem, in their heart of hearts.''
 For decades, high school officials have been ''ostriches with their heads in the sand,'' Yesalis said, trying to convince themselves that a steroid problem does not exist. 
 ''These drugs are readily available, kids can afford them and they work,'' he added. ''The few states that have instituted testing systems have set them up to fail. It's mainly to make coaches and parents feel good. That's too bad. A decent, rigorous level of testing would work better in high school than in college or the pros.''
 Only three states -- New Jersey, Texas and Illinois -- have mandatory drug testing of high school athletes. Florida halted its program this year after losing $100,000 in funding from its state legislature because of budget cuts related to the economic downturn. Because the tests are so expensive -- they can cost up to $200 or $300 each -- states generally do not test a large number of athletes or monitor the same range of performance-enhancing drugs as, say, the Olympics. 
 ''The biggest hurdle is the cost,'' said Bob Gardner, the chief operating officer of the National Federation of State High School Associations.
 Illinois and New Jersey, the first state to begin mandatory testing, in 2006, test athletes only when they reach postseason competition. When athletes know they will be tested, antidoping experts say, a screening becomes more of an I.Q. test than a drug test. Even at the high school level, athletes are sophisticated enough to know when to stop taking a cycle of steroids and how to quickly flush the drugs from their system or mask them, experts say. 
 New Jersey has reported two positives among 1,000 athletes tested the last two years.
 Texas performs random, unannounced testing of athletes, both during the season and out of season. But that system is hardly foolproof, either. Like New Jersey and Illinois, Texas does not test athletes during the summer, when athletes can bulk up illicitly without fear of detection. And its testing system has raised much skepticism. Some 10,000 of Texas' 700,000 high school athletes were screened as part of a $3 million program during the 2007-8 school year, but only two positive tests were reported. 
 It can be a mistake to conclude that the program is not working because of the paucity of positive results, experts caution. Perhaps the tests served as a deterrent. But more likely, some antidoping researchers believe, there was a flaw in Texas' testing protocol, such as testing too few athletes in sports like football, screening for too few drugs or providing too much advance notice for the tests.
 The University Interscholastic League, which governs high school sports in Texas, said there was insufficient data after one year to know whether the program was effective at catching or deterring drug users. Another 30,000 to 40,000 athletes will be tested this school year.
 ''Something's wrong,'' said Dr. Gary I. Wadler, a New York University internist and the chairman of the World Anti-Doping Agency's committee on prohibited substances. Two positive tests in Texas, a state where high school football is hugely popular, and where a border is shared with Mexico, from which many steroids enter the United States, ''seems virtually impossible,'' Wadler said.
 Dr. Linn Goldberg, the head of the division of health promotion and sports medicine at Oregon Health and Science University, was the co-author of a study last year in the Journal of Adolescent Health that showed testing did not deter high school athletes from using performance-enhancing drugs. Teenagers can feel immortal in taking risks and challenging authority, Goldberg said. And so few athletes were tested, he said, they knew the chances of being caught were ''infinitesimally small.''
 Instead, Goldberg stresses educational programs that he and associates developed, called Atlas and Athena. But federal funding even for educational programs can be difficult to obtain. For instance, Goldberg said that $15 million had been earmarked for education annually for six years by the 2004 Anabolic Steroid Control Act, yet ''not one penny has been put forward.''
 So Goldberg has partnered with 16 teams in the N.F.L. A two-year, $2.6 million initiative funded by the league will reach 40,000 kids and 1,500 coaches with the Atlas and Athena programs this year, he said. But Goldberg cautioned that some methods frequently used by schools did not work, including the use of pamphlets, adult lectures and scare tactics. 
 Effective education, he said, involved children encouraging other children to avoid performance-enhancing drugs, and athletes being provided with alternative ways to gain weight and strength through proper nutrition and training techniques.
 ''You can't believe how much coaches don't know about proper sports nutrition,'' Goldberg said.
 Some experts remain skeptical about the efficacy of education alone. Without effective testing, they say, education is essentially a folly because performance-enhancing drugs are so seductive and effective. ''I don't think a simple education program works for hard-core athletes,'' Catlin of Anti-Doping Research said.
 Instead, Catlin proposes for high schools what he has long proposed for Olympic and professional athletes -- the creation of so-called biological passports that track chemical markers in athletes over a long period. A successful program would require doctors to track these markers and pass that information into a central data bank, Catlin said.
 ''You wouldn't use it to take kids to court, but in high school you don't want to take kids to court,'' Catlin said. ''You want to identify them and show that there is another way to go about life.''
 Here in St. Landry Parish, the six public high schools can test 10 percent of their athletes three times a year for recreational drugs. During those three testing periods, the schools are allowed to screen one athlete for performance-enhancing drugs. ''That's not much of a deterrent,'' said Gardner of the National Federation of State High School Associations.
 The cost of wider testing is prohibitive, said Donnie Perron, the athletic director for St. Landry Parish schools, who favors an enhanced education program. So far, the most effective deterrent in the county seems to be the vigilance of coaches.
 Tom Andrus, the football coach at St. Edmund's of Eunice, a power among Louisiana's small schools, said that he had suspended two players in the last two years after failed drug screens. One came under suspicion because he frequently appeared irritated, Andrus said, while the other player seemed to bulk up too quickly.
 Paul Trosclair, the football coach at Eunice High, a Class 4A power, said that sudden weight gain had also made him suspicious of one of his players two or three years ago. The player failed a drug screen and his mother became defensive, Trosclair said. ''She kind of knew what was going on,'' he said. ''I think she might have put her head in the sand.''
 For reasons of vanity or gaining a quick advantage, high school athletes can turn to steroids, Trosclair said. In particular, he said, coaches should be careful when they tell players to get bigger.
 ''They feel pressure,'' Trosclair said. ''Coach wants me to get bigger. I want to be in the starting lineup. What's the best way to get there? They go into health clubs and some guy off the street says, 'We can get you bigger, faster.' There you go, you have a problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Yesalis, right, an expert on performance-enhancing drugs, says drug testing could work in high schools. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (92%); STEROIDS (92%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPORTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DRUG TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); WEIGHTLIFTING (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); ARRESTS (73%); PEDIATRICS (72%); CANNABIS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); ETHICS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (57%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1141 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; TITANS 47, LIONS 10; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Lions Prolong A Tradition Of Futility

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Making fun of the Lions is too easy, like an ice fisherman casting his line into a drink cooler. 
 In a city that is home to auto executives who traveled in private jets to Washington to plead poverty, the Lions still provide the biggest laughs. Derek Richards, a stand-up comedian who grew up here, said: ''You can make a Lions joke anywhere in the country and people get it. Everybody across the United States knows how miserable this team is.'' 
 The Lions (0-12) looked like a vaudeville act masquerading as a National Football League team Thursday in a 47-10 loss to the Tennessee Titans at Ford Field. They turned the ball over three times, were 0 for 11 on third downs and allowed the Titans' offense to roll for 456 yards on the way to their worst margin of defeat in a Thanksgiving Day game. 
 The loss to the 11-1 Titans represented another obstacle overcome in the Lions' bid to become the first team in league history to finish 0-16. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers finished 0-14 in 1976.
 ''In Detroit,'' Richards said, borrowing a line from his act, ''the only thing worse than the economy is the Lions.'' 
 Nobody was laughing in the Lions' locker room. ''I think everybody feels embarrassed that we did that on national TV,'' kicker Jason Hanson said. 
 In the television buffet served up to America on Thanksgiving, the Lions are the mincemeat pie. They are included as a nod to tradition -- this was their 69th Thanksgiving Day game -- even though the general population finds them wholly unappealing. 
 That is not to say that on a day given over for gratitude, the Lions have no place at the table. One way to look at them is as comfort food. Richards likened them to guests on ''The Jerry Springer Show.'' ''No matter how bad your life is,'' he said in a telephone interview, ''you can look at the Lions and see something worse.'' 
 Richards was in town the first weekend of October, when the Lions hosted their hated division rivals from Chicago. A friend offered an extra ticket to Richards, who looked at the game, a 27-point Lions loss, as a research outing. After all, he is always looking for new material.
 ''I can't work them into the act enough,'' Richards said. 
 The Lions have turned into a parody of a football team. They have one playoff victory to show for the last 51 years and have lost 19 of their last 20 and 34 of their last 44. The Buccaneers have won a Super Bowl since Detroit's last postseason appearance, in the 1999 season. The expansion Carolina Panthers have risen, fallen and risen again in that time. 
 During the descent, the Lions have passed the Quebec Nordiques, the Los Angeles Clippers and the Tampa Bay Rays as pro sports' symbol of ineptitude. Some fans have grown tired of the franchise's being a punch line, good for an easy laugh. After the team lost its first four games by an average margin of 22.8 points, Gregg Daniels, a lifelong Lions fan, was commiserating with friends. 
 ''I wish we could stop rooting for them and start rooting for another team,'' Daniels remembered saying. But to be from, in or around Detroit is to be fiercely loyal, as evidenced by how few foreign-made cars or Bears jerseys are seen within city limits. 
 Daniels was stuck with the Lions for bitter and for worse. Or was he? Daniels got to thinking: what if the Lions left? His musings led him to create, with a little help from his friends, the Web site latakethelions.com. 
 ''Our big joke,'' Daniels said in a telephone interview, ''is that L.A. hasn't had football in 14 years and they have the same number of playoff wins in that time as Detroit.'' 
 There are still a few optimists left in the Motor City: Lions fans who are as excited about New England quarterback Matt Cassel's impending free agency as Knicks fans are about the availability of LeBron James in 2010. 
 But mostly there is despair, the defeats wearing on even the most die-hard fans. Jason Hochstein, who has had season tickets dating to when the Lions played in the Silverdome, is leaning toward not renewing his tickets in 2009. 
 ''You keep thinking it can't get any worse,'' he said. ''You keep thinking it's got to get better. But there's been no progress at all.'' 
 Hochstein, who owns a boutique store in Royal Oak that sells jeans, was in the stands with his twin, Justin, when the Lions endured a 23-point loss at home to Green Bay. Early in the third quarter, Hochstein said, his brother abruptly rose and said: ''I'm done. I don't want tickets next year.'' And then he left.
 The other day at his store, Hochstein was talking with one of his customers. Inevitably, the conversation turned to the Lions. The customer told Hochstein she was a 30-year season-ticket holder but did not plan to renew. As she explained to him, ''I can take that money we've been spending on tickets and go to Aruba every year.'' 
 The game against Tennessee sold out Tuesday, after the N.F.L. delayed by one day its deadline for imposing a local blackout. It unfolded like a rerun. The Lions lost a fumble on the second snap from scrimmage and the Titans scored two plays later, on a 6-yard run by Chris Johnson, who was untouched. 
 As far as losses go, this one was pretty bloodless, with the Titans' nine scoring drives averaging 5.6 plays. Daniels said, ''0-16 needs to happen to the franchise, because the franchise has earned it with complete and utter mismanagement.'' 
 Richards has a professional stake in the Lions' futility. If they ever reach respectability, he joked, his gig might be up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Detroit lost its 12th game, further frustrating Lions fans on Thanksgiving Day. (PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS
BELOW BY GREGORY SHAMUS/GETTY IMAGES)(B8)
 Quarterback Tony Romo led the Cowboys to scores on their first four possessions against the Seahawks. He finished 22 for 34 for 331 yards and 3 touchdowns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS (98%); DALLAS COWBOYS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1142 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: In Florida, New Condos On the Block

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
GIVEN how tough it is to sell a single condominium in Florida these days, what does it take to sell dozens of them in less than two hours?
 A motivated developer, a room full of potential buyers and an auctioneer like Ken Cullum, who on a recent Saturday kicked off bidding on 33 new condos at the Edge, a 307-unit building in West Palm Beach, by asking the bidders in the hotel ballroom to raise their paddles. 
 ''You folks in the first three or four rows -- turn around and look behind you,'' he said. ''There's your competition.''
 After a practice round of paddle-raising, bidding began on the first unit, a 1,180-square-foot two-bedroom, two-bathroom condo on the 12th floor with views of downtown West Palm Beach, Clear Lake and the ocean. 
 ''The last asking price was $511,000, and we have a minimum unbelievable selling price today, and today only, of $190,000,'' Mr. Cullum rattled off in his auctioneer cadence. ''Do I have a $190,000 opening bid? One-ninety! Thank you. Now, let's get $200,000.''
 After a flurry of bidding, the apartment sold for $225,000 to a woman with a pink sweater tied around her neck, who ultimately purchased 19 units on behalf of a real estate investment company based in Pittsburgh. But many of the 37 condos sold during the auction and shortly afterward were bought by individuals who plan to use them as primary residences or vacation properties at prices ranging from $131,000 to $290,000.
 Call it the adrenaline approach to real estate marketing. Once viewed primarily as a means to sell foreclosed properties, auctions are increasingly being used to jump-start sales in new developments.
 ''In this market, it's not easy to determine value,'' said Jon Gollinger, co-founder of Accelerated Marketing Partners, the real estate company that handled the auction on behalf of the developer, Wood Partners, which had previously sold about half the units. 
 THE Florida real estate market has been hit particularly hard in recent years, leading to a glut of homes, even as prices continue to decline. The Florida Association of Realtors says the median sales price for existing condominiums was $147,600 in October, down 23 percent from last year. In October 2005, the median sales price for condominiums was $213,600, and the decline since then has left buyers uncertain about making deals.
 The goal of an auction is to establish the value of a property by bringing a lot of buyers together and finding out what they will pay -- speeding up a process that might otherwise take months in a stalled market like Southern Florida.
 ''It's a win for the developer because he moves a lot of inventory quickly,'' Mr. Gollinger said. ''And it's a win for buyers because it shows that there is a market for the building -- it gives them comfort in their purchase.''
 For a month before the auction for the Edge, representatives from Accelerated Marketing Partners were at the building seven days a week, giving tours of the apartments and the building's Olympic-size pool, gym and clubhouse.
 Prospective bidders had to show up at the auction with a $5,000 cashier's check or money order, and a personal check to cover the difference between that amount and 10 percent of the purchase price. There were fewer than 75 bidders in the room, many well shy of retirement age and more than a few dressed in shorts and flip-flops.
 Furious gum chewing, knee bouncing and brow massaging betrayed a certain level of anxiety, which was no doubt fueled by a platoon of staff members circling the room, pointing and shouting to draw the auctioneer's attention to any raised paddle.
 Minimum bids ranged from $95,000 for a 670-square-foot one-bedroom, one-bathroom unit to $225,000 for a 1,300-square-foot two-bedroom, two-bathroom condo with a den. The deal was, as long as the minimum bid was met, the apartment would be sold, but most units went for at least 20 percent above the minimum. That turned out to be too high for some bidders.
 ''The units I was going for were getting up to $130,000 or $140,000 and that was just a little above my comfort level,'' said Peter Abraham, an event planner from Boston. 
 Although he felt it was ''a little unfair'' that one investor bought more than half the auctioned units, he was still glad he flew down for the event. ''It was a good experience,'' he said. ''And I sat next to a realtor who told me, 'If you don't get one today, don't be discouraged -- there will be more for sale later.' ''
 In fact, Mr. Abraham did end up getting a call after the auction saying the deal for one of the condos he had bid on had fallen through, but he was not willing to pay the price the other person had bid. ''I told them if I had wanted to PAY that price, I would have BID at that price!'' he wrote in an e-mail message.
 Nicole Justice, a health insurance sales representative from Boynton Beach, Fla., was also outbid on four one-bedroom condos she was considering but was able to sign a contract after the bidding for her fifth choice, which had been pulled from the original list.
 ''They said, 'Don't worry, we'll get you one,' '' Ms. Justice said, referring to employees who knew she had visited the building half a dozen times. ''I thought, 'Do you know something I don't know?' ''
 Ms. Justice paid $135,000 for her apartment, which was $22,000 less than the price a similar unit sold for in the auction, but comparable with the final price of another unit she had bid on. There were a few examples of such spreads between the selling prices of similar units -- because of different views, a higher or lower floor or the vagaries of the bidding process.
 For instance, Alex Agios, a certified public accountant from New Hope, Pa., paid $233,000 for a two-bedroom, two-bathroom unit with a technology nook, while a condo with essentially the same floor space and floor plan two stories directly below sold for $291,000.
 ''With that one, there were two emotional bidders,'' Mr. Agios said. He had expected to bid 10 to 20 percent more than the minimum asking price, which for both units was $190,000, so he ended up pretty close to his maximum range.
 A few bidders came with real estate agents, who were eligible to earn a commission. One agent, who declined to give his name, said he was there to make sure his clients understood the process and didn't overpay. 
 But the outcome Mr. Gollinger predicted based on previous auctions his company had handled turned out to be pretty accurate: buyer and seller met somewhere between their ideal numbers to do a deal.
 ''I think that the developers probably got a little lower prices than they wanted to get and the buyers probably paid a little more than they wanted to pay,'' he said. ''I usually think that's a good outcome.''
 In fact, John DiFiore, a senior vice president with Real Estate Capital Partners, a Manhattan-based equity partner of the developer, said the final numbers were ''a little bit better than we expected'' -- albeit lower than the prices they hope to get for the rest of the units. 
 ''I thought everyone who bought today got a really great deal at prices they'll never see again,'' he said. ''The objective here was to use the auction to launch a new marketing initiative that will continue on. Everybody today got the bottom prices; we set the bottom.''
 Now, the company is repricing the rest of the units in the building, contacting people who registered for the auction but didn't attend and rolling out a new advertising campaign.
 Which is not to suggest that such auctions are always so successful. A week earlier, an auction intended to kick-start sales at the Landmark, a 166-unit Mediterranean-style building in Palm Beach Gardens, did not achieve the minimum bids, which ranged from $350,000 for a two-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bathroom condo to $1.65 million for a four-bedroom, five-and-a-half-bathroom penthouse.
 ''At the auction, we opened the bidding, and no one bid the minimum bids, even though we had a very full room,'' said Steve Good, chief executive of Sheldon Good & Company, which handled the auction. ''The marketplace basically rejected the minimum bid.''
 Although some people submitted offers below the minimum bids, which the developer is considering, Mr. Good said the challenge in the current real estate market is that buyers aren't necessarily willing to pay prices that match what the owner owes on the property.
 ''Prices have dropped so far so fast that in many cases, particularly where we're representing developers, the properties might not be worth more than the mortgages,'' he said.
 Put another way: the owner might not be willing to sell at a loss, and buyers don't want to overpay, so there's no meeting in the middle.
 ''With the plummeting economy, there's a real open question in terms of what real estate is worth today,'' Mr. Good said. ''Absent someone getting a terrific deal, it's really tough to sell real estate. Period.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOGRAPHS: DO I HEAR...?: Peter Abraham, Paddle 316, was a bidder at a recent condo auction in West Palm Beach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
 SOLD: Despite the moribund state of the Florida real estate market, a recent auction of 33 of the 307 units in the new Edge condominium in West Palm Beach drew potential buyers, and developers considered the event a success. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); FORECLOSURE (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (65%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1143 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Demand for Wind Power Is Spurring Ranchers in Wyoming to Join Forces

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: WHEATLAND, Wyo. 

 BODY:
The man who came to Elsie Bacon's ranch house door in July asked the 71-year-old widow to grant access to a right of way across the dry hills and short grasses of her land here. Ms. Bacon remembered his insistence on a quick, secret deal. 
 The man, a representative of the Little Rose Wind Farm of Boulder, Colo., sought an easement for a transmission line to carry his company's wind-generated electricity to market. His offer: a fraction of the value of similar deals in the area. As Ms. Bacon, 71, recalled it: ''He said, 'You sure I can't write you out a check?' He was really pushy.''
 A quiet land rush is under way among the buttes of southeastern Wyoming, and it is changing the local rancher culture. The whipping winds cursed by descendants of the original homesteaders now have real value for out-of-state developers who dream of wind farms or of selling the rights to bigger companies. 
 But as developers descend upon the area, drawing comparisons to the oil patch ''land men'' in the movie ''There Will Be Blood,'' the ranchers of Albany, Converse and Platte Counties are rewriting the old script. 
 Ms. Bacon did not agree to the deal from the Little Rose representative, Ed Ahlstrand Jr. Instead, she joined her neighbors in forming the Bordeaux Wind Energy Association -- among the new cooperative associations whose members, in a departure from the local culture of privacy and self-reliance, are pooling their wind-rich land. 
 This allows them to bargain collectively for a better price and ensures that as few as possible succumb to high-pressure tactics or accept low offers. Ranchers share information about the potential value of their wind.
 The development of eight Wyoming wind associations (with three more waiting in the wings) and similar groups in Colorado, Montana and New Mexico has not always been a simple matter. While ranchers have always been ready to help their neighbors, they have been less willing to discuss their financial affairs. 
 That has made it easier for wind developers to make individual deals and insist that the terms be kept secret. The developers' cause has not been hurt by a 10-year drought's impact on agricultural families' finances.
 Gregor Goertz heads the Slater Wind Energy Association, one of the oldest although less than two years old, formed by dozens of independent-minded men and women. ''Maybe they wouldn't talk to each other often about other issues,'' he said, ''but here they could see a common goal.''
 Mr. Goertz added that, of the 45 or more landowners who came to his first meeting, just one declined to join. The group's land holdings, which total about 30,000 acres, are centered on a row of buttes where the wind routinely blows at 25 miles per hour.
 Mr. Goertz said that because of the changes a forest of turbines would make in the serrated, far-flung vistas here, ''everybody in the community is going to be affected.'' The association, he said, would ''assure that everybody will have some income whether they have a turbine placed on their property or not.'' 
 The developers hope to supply Wyoming wind power to markets like California, which intends to have one-third of its power from renewable sources by 2020.
 ''This is the best wind in North America, we think,'' said Ronald Lehr, a representative of the American Wind Energy Association, the developers' trade group. 
 Of course, the decline in oil prices and the constraints on the capital markets are most likely to slow the development of wind energy. But for ranchers, the calculations remain the same about whether to deal with developers individually or as a group.
 Bob Grant, 82, a rancher who sleeps in the bed his Scottish grandfather brought across the ocean and the prairie a century ago, has never liked the wind here. Mr. Grant has seen it hurl gravel off ridges and into a friend's face like shrapnel. 
 He said he warmed to the idea of wind associations after long, individual negotiations with enXco, a French-owned developer.
 In early 2007, the centerpiece of the price discussed was a per-acre payment of about $2.50, Mr. Grant and an enXco representative said. Discussions broke off, then resumed a year later; the suggested price per acre has nearly doubled.
 The doubling of the offer made Mr. Grant and his sons wonder how they could assess, and trust, any offer, they said. 
 Greg Probst, a representative of enXco, said the first offer had not been an effort to drive a hard bargain. It was, Mr. Probst said, a realistic appraisal, given the difficulties of transporting wind power to market when there was little transmission capacity to spare.
 From early 2007 to late 2008, he said, the potential marketability of wind power in southeastern Wyoming was enhanced as plans for construction of the Wyoming-Colorado Intertie, a privately financed transmission line, became firmer and Xcel Energy showed an interest in buying the renewable energy. 
 ''There's a better chance that there's a market for the power, and a way to get the power to market, than there was 18 months or two years ago,'' Mr. Probst said. ''So we're definitely willing to pay more at this point.''
 But the experience made the Grant family look harder at the possibility of joining their lands with those of their neighbors in a new group, the Bordeaux Wind Energy Association, which sent its incorporation papers to the state just before Thanksgiving.
 The godfather of such associations is a federal official, Grant Stumbough, whose work for the Resource Conservation and Development office of the Agriculture Department was focused on ways to keep ranchers on the land. Revenue from wind farms, he believed, could mean the difference between success and failure for some ranchers.
 Mr. Stumbough felt the ranchers were at a disadvantage when dealing individually with wind developers. The developers, in most cases, know more than landowners about the value of the wind and the transmission lines that will carry it. 
 For instance, the deal that Mr. Ahlstrand offered Elsie Bacon was valued, yard for yard, at as little as a quarter of the amount that the largest local electrical cooperative had paid for a large transmission right of way. And it included a nondisclosure clause to prevent her from comparing notes with neighbors.
 (Mr. Ahlstrand did not respond to repeated telephone calls and e-mail messages seeking his version of these events.)
 Mr. Stumbough said: ''I thought we could use collective bargaining strategies to maybe have a little more leverage in negotiating with wind developers. If we could all get together and work together cooperatively and do some cost sharing and maybe share some of the profits, I think it's going to be a benefit to everybody.''
 The idea has quickly spread. Aside from the promise of economic dividends, which may make it easier to stay on the land, ranchers are finding other less tangible benefits to the groups. 
 Larry Cundall, a rancher in Glendo who heads the Glendo Wind Energy Association, said the organizational meeting in April attracted 126 people, some from 60 miles away. It had, Mr. Cundall said, ''the feeling of an old country dance.''
 ''Afterward,'' he went on, ''everyone stood around and visited like we did before we had TV.'' 
 The initial reaction, Mr. Cundall said, had been ''90 percent positive,'' although he admitted there was skepticism. ''Everyone takes everything with a grain of salt around here,'' he said.
 The associations send out requests to wind developers who may be interested in constructing a wind farm; Mr. Goertz's Slater Association, the first one formed, gave tours of their lands to at least a dozen different developers, Mr. Goertz said, and are in the final stages of making a deal.
 Asked if the terms of the impending deal were better than those offered to some of the ranchers originally, Mr. Goertz said simply, ''Yes.''
 The financial arrangements of each association are unique, but in the case of the Slater Wind Energy Association, 55 percent of the total annual royalties is to be distributed among the landowners who have turbines on their properties. The rest is to be distributed among all association members, both those with turbines and those without. 
 Jim Anderson, the state senator whose district covers the windy acres of this region, welcomes the rise of these associations as vehicles to market their wind and as bargainers with the leverage to get ranchers a good deal. ''I think the word is kind of out,'' Mr. Anderson said, ''that Wyoming is probably ahead of the curve in regard to those people who might be opportunist and want to come in and take advantage'' of local ranchers. 
 ''I think that we've positioned ourselves well to be prudent and intelligent negotiators.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Grant Stumbough, left, visited with Gregor Goertz, head of the Slater Wind Energy Association, this month near Slater Bench, the mesa in the distance, outside Wheatland, Wyo.
Strong winds in southeastern Wyoming have forced landowners together to improve bargaining position.
 Larry Cundall, a rancher in Glendo who heads the Glendo Wind Energy Association, and his wife, Ruthie.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Wind energy groups have formed in southeastern Wyoming.(Source: Resource Conservation and Development Office, U.S.D.) Map details area of Wheatland. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); WEATHER (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (55%) WYOMING, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1144 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LONDON JOURNAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Under St. Paul's Glow, Hints of Dark Times

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
As they have for 50 years, Americans here packed St. Paul's Cathedral on Thursday for an annual Thanksgiving service that, as evocatively as any event on the calendar, nurtures the home thoughts from abroad that are a staple of expatriate life.
 Four marines from the American Embassy detachment in London, three of them Iraq war veterans, carried the Stars and Stripes and the Marine Corps colors across the marbled floor beneath the cathedral's soaring dome and laid them before the altar. As the banners were borne out at the service's end, the congregation of 3,500, many of them families with small children, raised a moving crescendo for the last verse of ''America the Beautiful.''
 ''America! America!'' they sang, to the accompaniment of the cathedral's great organ, ''God shed his grace on thee.'' 
 For the 220,000 Americans living in Britain, the annual gathering at St. Paul's, Sir Christopher Wren's masterpiece, provides an opportunity to celebrate the two nations that are the pillars of their lives. A centerpiece of the occasion every year is the invocation of the ''special relationship'' between Britain and the United States, which the American ambassador, Robert H. Tuttle, described in remarks to the congregation on Thursday as ''working together, and marching together, as we have sung together, for decades, if not for centuries.''
 But this year, more than most, the occasion was tinged with shades of light and dark.
 Light, literally, because the cathedral is in the midst of celebrating overlapping anniversaries: the 300th anniversary of the laying of its last stone in 1708, and the 50th anniversary this week of the dedication of the American Memorial Chapel, situated behind the great altar. The chapel honors the 28,000 United States service members based in Britain who died in World War II. 
 On Wednesday, another service celebrated the completion of a $60 million, six-year renovation that has restored light and color to a cathedral whose great stone walls and magnificent frescoes had dimmed with age.
 Dark, at least figuratively, because many Americans in London have had their lives thrown into turmoil by the financial crisis gripping much of the world. Between 20,000 and 30,000 Americans are said to work in London's financial district, many of them within walking distance of St. Paul's.
 Several thousand of them, according to reports in the financial pages of Britain's leading newspapers, have either lost their jobs or face losing them as banks, investment companies and hedge funds grapple with the worst market conditions in decades.
 ''I'd guess there are some here today who don't much feel like giving thanks,'' the Rev. Barry Gaeddert, an American pastor from the International Community Church in London, told the congregation in his sermon. ''It's been a wild ride this fall, and it's by no means over.''
 He offered words of comfort to those attending the service who, he said, ''are going through things that nobody else knows about'' as they struggle to regain stability in lives upended by events like the sudden collapse in September of Lehman Brothers, which had 5,200 employees in London, many of them Americans.
 As the congregation headed out into a chill, blustery English morning, some of those working in the financial industry paused to discuss what the crisis meant for Americans here. Brian Tipple, a 50-year-old investment manager, said that for many he knew working in London, the uncertainties were mounting.
 ''It's just beginning to take hold,'' he said, as American companies faced with the high cost of supporting expatriate Americans begin notifying them that they will be transferred back to the United States. Although the 25 percent plunge in the pound's value against the dollar in recent weeks has eased some of the strains for Americans living here, Britain's exorbitant prices -- reckoned in many surveys to make London one of the world's most expensive cities, well ahead of New York -- still make raising a family here a trying experience for many Americans. 
 Mr. Tipple's wife, Traci, said one sign of the growing exodus was visible on the notice boards of the American schools, one in the London neighborhood of St. John's Wood and the other in Surrey, south of London, where the couple are educating their two teenage daughters. ''People want to sell their TVs and other appliances,'' she said, because the 220-240 volt equipment required in Britain will not work in the United States, with its 110-volt electrical system.
 But for many Americans at the Thanksgiving service, concerns about the financial crisis were eased, at least momentarily, by the evidence all about them of the continuing closeness of their countries of birth and residence. 
 About $3 million of the $60 million raised to clean and renovate the cathedral was given by American donors, and nearly $1 million of that went to work on the American Memorial Chapel. Experts have given a new vibrancy to the chapel's intricate limewood-and-oak paneling, and to three stained-glass windows bearing scenes of Christ's passion and the crests of all 50 American states. A new stairlift has made the chapel accessible to wheelchairs.
 The most generous American donor, Mark C. Pigott, a Seattle-based trucking magnate with a passion for history who was born in Britain, also underwrote the restoration of one of the cathedral's most iconic features: the crypt containing the marble catafalque of Arthur, the Duke of Wellington, victor of the Battle of Waterloo in 1815, and later Britain's prime minister. Like much of the rest of the restoration, the work in the crypt gave light and color back to what had been become a gloomy recess.
 But the biggest draw on Thursday was the memorial chapel behind the altar, where organizers laid the honor roll listing the names of the American service members who died in World War II open to a dedication written in 1946 by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, the supreme allied commander. ''Fittingly,'' the future president wrote, the ''mother country of all English-speaking democracies'' had undertaken to build the chapel at St. Paul's, itself ''a target of barbarian attack'' by German bombers during the blitz.
 A short distance away, American families clustered around a copy of the honor roll opened to the page giving the name of perhaps the most famous of all the American service members honored by the chapel: Maj. A. G. Miller of the United States Army Air Forces, better known as the jazz musician and band leader Glenn Miller, killed when the aircraft carrying him across the English channel to France disappeared on Dec. 15, 1944.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A United States Marine color guard on Thursday in the newly refurbished St. Paul's Cathedral in London for the Thanksgiving service, heavily attended by Americans.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE FORREST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); VETERANS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); LAYOFFS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1145 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2332 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times: November 28, 2008

 BODY:
International
 U.N. SAYS TALIBAN IS STOCKPILING 
 Opium to Ensure Income
 The United Nations said that Afghanistan had produced so much opium in recent years that the Taliban were cutting poppy cultivation and stockpiling raw opium in an effort to support prices and preserve a major source of financing for the insurgency. A report showed that poppy cultivation had retreated in much of the country and was now overwhelmingly concentrated in the 7 of 34 provinces where the insurgency remains strong, most of those in the south. Last year, the United Nations estimated that the insurgents made as much as $300 million from the opium trade. PAGE A16
 A SOMBER THANKSGIVING IN BRITAIN
 The financial crisis has cast a pall over the annual Thanksgiving celebration at St. Paul's Cathedral in London for the American expatriates who usually attend the service. Thousands of Americans who work in London's financial district, many within walking distance of St. Paul's, have lost their jobs or are in danger of losing them as the markets continue to slide. PAGE A26 
 A RUSSIAN HUB'S IDENTITY CRISIS
 The city of Kaliningrad, Russia, is an old military outpost wedged on the Baltic Sea between Lithuania and Poland. It was once seen as the Russian Hong Kong, a free trade zone to entice foreign investors. But this month President Dmitri A. Medvedev said Russia would stage short-range Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad. Any rearming of Kaliningrad would be the latest twist in an old identity crisis: Is it Russia's window, open to Europe, or a turret for firing on it? PAGE A8
 18 INSURGENTS SURRENDER IN IRAQ
 The United States military said that 18 women associated with cells of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia that were known to have planned suicide bombings turned themselves in to American-led forces in northern Iraq. As part of a reconciliation program, such insurgents are asked to pledge their loyalty to the Iraqi government and say they will participate in the political process. And though they are put on trial and usually serve prison sentences, the former insurgents are no longer pursued or killed, and their families can live in safety. PAGE A24
 ABUSE CASES HORRIFY BRITAIN
 Two cases have outraged the British public and raised questions about the country's vast social service system. In one case, a man was convicted of repeatedly raping -- and fathering nine children with -- his two daughters over nearly three decades. In the other, a London woman and two others were convicted of beating her 17-month-old son to death. In each case, the families had repeated contact with an army of social workers and authorities who left the families intact despite troubling, even blatant, evidence of severe mistreatment. PAGE A10
 NATIONAL
 GOVERNOR FACES TOUGH TASK 
 After Promise of Change
 Luis G. Fortuno, a Republican elected governor of Puerto Rico this month, describes his victory as Obamaesque. ''Cambio,'' he says, or ''change,'' has been his slogan since 2006. And he says the economy will be Job 1 for his administration. But in Puerto Rico -- where recession has been a fact of life for three years, unemployment is nearly 12 percent, taxes have risen and purchasing power has declined -- he is unlikely to get much of a honeymoon. PAGE A28
 PLAYING BY INTERNET RULES
 Legal experts say the cyberbullying case in which a Missouri woman was convicted on three counts of computer fraud after she misrepresented herself on MySpace raises many questions about the terms that users agree to when they sign up for Web sites. PAGE A28
 A SURFEIT OF MAPLES
 People in Worcester, Mass., love the maples that shade their streets in summer and turn beautiful colors in fall. Unfortunately, so do the Asian longhorned beetles, so many of the trees will be cut down as early as next month. And like some other cities that have done a census of their trees, Worcester hopes to become more diversified when it comes to replacements. PAGE A31
 ARREST IN ANCHORWOMAN'S DEATH
 The police in Little Rock, Ark., have arrested a man in the beating death of a local television anchorwoman. The man, Curtis L. Vance, has been charged with capital murder in the death last month of Anne Pressly, 26, a reporter on the ''Daybreak'' program of KATV-TV, the Little Rock ABC affiliate. The police said Mr. Vance was a resident of Marianna, a small town in the Arkansas Delta, but frequently was in the Little Rock metropolitan area. They gave no details about the investigation. PAGE A32
 A NEW FLIP SIDE FOR SACAGAWEA
 The Sacagawea dollar coin will feature a new design on its reverse side in 2009, with a depiction of a young Indian woman planting seeds in a field of cornstalks, bean vines and squash. The new design, replacing an eagle in flight, meets the dictates of Congress to create a new design each year. The coin will enter circulation in January alongside the continuing series of presidential dollar coins, which began in 2007. PAGE A29 
 OBITUARIES
 WILLIAM GIBSON, 94
 A playwright, he had a gift for creating strong, popular female characters and wrote ''The Miracle Worker,'' which portrayed the relationship between the young blind and deaf Helen Keller and her teacher, Anne Sullivan. PAGE A34 
 NEW YORK
 AMONG BUDGET CASUALTIES
 Are the Old and Vulnerable
 As a result of the city's budget crisis, 15 programs that offer care and engagement for people with Alzheimer's disease or dementia are losing their grants. The city hopes to move as many of them as possible to Medicaid-financed centers or provide them with Medicaid-financed home care. But the transition will take a toll. Big City, by Susan Dominus. PAGE A36 
 FOCUSING ON THE ULTRA-ORTHODOX
 ''The Secrets,'' an Israeli film, treads some touchy and sometimes uncharted territory for the ultra-Orthodox: women's rights and lesbian love. Four local rabbis and a rabbinical student agreed to watch ''The Secrets'' and share their reactions. But it is a measure of the film's potency that a sixth person, an ultra-Orthodox rabbi from New Jersey, declined even to watch it after he learned that it showed women singing -- a taboo in his tradition. PAGE A35 
 SPORTS
 ANTIDOPING EFFORTS CREATE
 Debate Over Best Approach
 Efforts to deter performance-enhancing drug use among high school athletes have had indeterminate success, leaving doping experts and school officials wondering how best to tackle the problem. And law enforcement officers and antidoping experts say it can be made worse by coaches and parents who have hopes of championship seasons and college scholarships. PAGE B8
 ORIOLES HOPE TO REMAIN PATIENT
 First baseman Mark Teixeira, above, and pitcher A. J. Burnett are two of the most prominent available players, and each has connections to Maryland. But the chance of the Baltimore Orioles -- who are patiently trying to build a winner by 2011 -- persuading either to sign seems to be a long shot. PAGE B9 
 PRAISE FOR GAMES DRAWS CRITICISM
 The Beijing Olympics were an ''indisputable success,'' according to an assessment released this week by the International Olympic Committee that praised, among other things, the organizers' nearly flawless execution of the Games. Critics respond: What about those crackdowns on would-be protestors, or Internet censorship at the news media center and harassment of foreign journalists? PAGE B9 
 LEARNING COACHING FROM DAD
 At the two-day Legends Classic in Newark this weekend, a pair of second-generation coaches will be sharing the stage: Tony Bennett of Washington State, who follows his father, Dick, into the profession; and Pat Knight of Texas Tech, whose father, Bob, won a few games at Indiana and elsewhere. PAGE B13
 BUSINESS
 RIDING THE HIGHS AND LOWS
 Of the Copper Market
 Morenci, Ariz., a mining town, has ridden the roller coaster ride of copper prices, including the dizzying climb that began in 2003. This past summer, copper prices reached a record, drawing thousands of new workers to the mines. But the reeling financial markets of the fall stripped copper of 60 percent of its value in only a few months, replacing flush times with anxiety. ''The end has come just incredibly abruptly,'' a state mining official said. PAGE B1
 FOR LIVING LIKE A MOLE
 The views are nonexistent; the air dry, hot and stale; and the nearby London Underground trains create quite a racket. But for those who fancy real estate with a history, $7.4 million will buy a vast tunnel complex in central London. Former tenants include Britain's secret service, the famous hot line between America and the Soviet Union during the cold war and 400 tons of government documents. PAGE B3
 CHALLENGING A RUSSIAN LEADER
 It has the makings of a science fiction tale: offspring of a behemoth join forces to take on the parent. Now, think of the parent as Aeroflot, the national airline of Russia. The offspring are 11 regional carriers spun off from Aeroflot years ago, their new merger orchestrated by the government because of bankruptcies. Both Aeroflot and the new company are majority-owned by the state but appear to be backed by different factions. PAGE B7
 WHERE WATCHES SMILE
 If you peruse much advertising for wristwatches and are at least reasonably observant, you have probably noticed that most of the hands are set at 10:10 (for Timex, a precise 10:09:36, even for digital models). There are of course reasons other than uniformity. To appreciate one, think of a watch as a smiley face. PAGE B4
 ESCAPES
 ANTIQUING ADVANTAGES
 Of the Old South
 By the standards of Eastern cities, Atlanta may itself be relatively short on history, having been founded only in 1837 and largely burned down decades later. But history can be bought in the city and its environs, as fans of antiquing know, and there's the added appeal of Southern cooking to make a trip even more worthwhile. PAGE D1
 CONDOS GOING, GOING ...
 As real estate sales devices, auctions are more often known as ways to sell foreclosed properties. But for a developer in Florida, where the real estate market has been hit particularly hard, a recent auction was a way to bring a lot of buyers together and find out what they would pay -- speeding up a process that might otherwise have taken months. PAGE D1
 Weekend
 FOR LANG LANG, A LIFE IN MUSIC
 Comes With Some Growing Pains
 The pianist Lang Lang, at the ripe old age of 26, plays to sold-out houses, draws thousands to outdoor concerts and tops charts with abandon. But his reputation for flamboyant playing has earned him criticism he sometimes finds hard to bear, he says in his new book. But in seeking out mentors in his craft, and in his latest two recordings of Chopin concertos, there are signs of a more mature Lang Lang. Page C1 
 TINY DANCERS IN THE 'NUTCRACKER'
 There are 105 children in this season's production of ''The Nutcracker,'' and Gareille Whittle is the caretaker of all of them, ensuring they learn and keep the choreography prepared for them by George Balanchine. There are some tricks, and the girls are quick studies both of the steps and the ways of the stage. For instance, don't mess with the soldiers, they make scary faces at you. And picture your family members in their undergarments should you get nervous. Page C1 
 A DRAB RECOUNTING OF CHAGALL
 Marc Chagall was a fascinating and protean figure, and earned the praise of Picasso for his use of color. ''Chagall,'' a new book about his life by Jackie Wullschlager, art critic for The Financial Times, is a rather drab telling. While the book is well-researched and lavishly illustrated, its overall tone seems to be that of a long encyclopedia entry, Dwight Garner writes. Page C31
 BOX OF CASH, SONG AND IVORY KEYS
 The nightingale sneaked out of its cage and unleashed a gilded soprano, a demure grin and a sparkling eye on her audience, Stephen Holden writes. Christine Ebersole's cabaret performance, accompanied by Billy Stritch on piano and vocals, was a showing of anarchic fun, with songs about debutantes in tears rubbing shoulders and notes with one about a five-pound box of money. That lady isn't going to settle for a diamond this Christmas, better just give her the cash -- and make it a 10-pound box. Page C18 
 HOLIDAY VARIETY, WITH POTSHOTS
 It's not a variety show without songs, tap-dancing twins, a charismatic pop-culture host and, of course, the enemy list. ''Rosie Live,'' supposedly a tribute to the 1970's variety shows, included a list of people to snipe at. While these verbal swats at the usual suspects like Donald Trump, Nancy Grace and Bill O'Reilly were light-hearted, they took a little of the good times shine off the festivities by adding a hard edge, Alessandra Stanley writes. Page C16 
 Editorial
 ABOUT LATIN AMERICA
 President-elect Barack Obama has a unique opportunity to improve ties with Latin America. Given how bad relations are right now, it will not take much more than good sense and sensitivity to make progress. PAGE A42
 A CLEAN AIR RULE TO KEEP
 President Bush is considering a last-minute rule change aimed at stripping the Clean Air Act of one of its most important provisions. If he proceeds, there will be weaker laws and more pollution. PAGE A42
 Op-Ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 The story of how the economic policy establishment failed to see this crisis coming implies that financial market reform should be pressed quickly, that it shouldn't wait until the crisis is resolved. PAGE A43
 DAVID BROOKS
 Some guiding principles for those devising the $500 billion stimulus plan the next administration seems set on: Don't just throw more money into the sugar rush. Spend money on projects that will enhance the long-term economic health of the country. Do what you would do anyway, just do it faster. PAGE A43
 DYING OF CONSUMPTION
 In an Op-Ed article, Stephen S. Roach, the chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, writes that there is a silver lining to the economic crisis. It will force Americans to stop spending borrowed money and live within their paychecks. PAGE A43

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPIUM (93%); TALIBAN (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); FAMILY (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (85%); BOMBINGS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); ARMIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); GOVERNORS (68%); SENTENCING (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); POLITICS (65%); CHILDREN (65%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (61%); JAIL SENTENCING (61%); THANKSGIVING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LITHUANIA (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1146 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; VIDEO GAMES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Let the Games Begin

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
In these challenging economic times, it may come as a surprise that a well-chosen video game can be one of the most cost-effective gifts possible. Sure, the $60 price tag on some top games can be daunting, but when you realize that the right one can wrangle dozens or even hundreds of hours out of the right player, games can start to look like the smart entertainment investments they are.
 But nongamers can get it totally wrong when buying for friends and family. Bad gift-giving usually stems from one basic misconception: If it's a video game, it must be for children. 
 Every year, parents who would never dream of buying their children a DVD of ''Scarface,'' ''Platoon'' or one of the ''Saw'' torture movies blithely buy them violent gangster games, bloody war games and gross-out horror games. Then they're horrified when little Johnny or Jenny ends up spending Saturday afternoon trading expletives with drug dealers and discussing the relative merits of shotguns and flamethrowers. So please, if you would not allow your children to watch R-rated films without supervision, do not buy them M-rated games. Federal studies have shown that the game industry is at least as vigilant as Hollywood in labeling products that are inappropriate for children. But the system breaks down when parents ignore it.
 That misconception cuts the other way as well. The average gamer is now about 30; the first generation to grow up playing games is now around 40. And your 35-year-old boyfriend is not going to be impressed when you show up with the latest Pokemon or the new ''Price Is Right'' game. The best work being done in games these days is in interactive narratives for and about adults. Engaging with a current top-end game involves much more cognitive processing (a k a brainpower) than merely watching hour upon hour of prime-time television. So show some respect; your favorite gamer will adore you for it.
 Here are some of the best games of the year, each of which could be the perfect gift for the right person. The shrewd will notice no sports or music games on this list. That is because those are easier to shop for: pick the desired sport or tunes and go.
 GRAND THEFT AUTO IV Ideal audience: well-adjusted adults who want to explore a rich, intelligent, politically incorrect digital rendition of New York City. As long as you can accept that a great work of modern entertainment can revolve around criminals -- something long assumed in television and films -- then it is almost impossible to deny that G.T.A. IV is one of the most compelling games in recent years. The driving and shooting is fun, but the real star of the game is the city itself, rendered with a loving sense of decay and populated with perhaps the best cast of dysfunctional characters to grace a pixel. For Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 (PC version coming in December). Rating: M for Mature.
 SID MEIER'S CIVILIZATION REVOLUTION Ideal audience: families interested in fostering an appreciation of both global history and strategic thinking; also, commuters looking to upgrade from Tetris. Civilization is the top strategy franchise in the history of video games. With Revolution the series moves beyond PCs and arrives on consoles and the hand-held Nintendo DS. The premise remains the same: guide a historical culture from the dawn of history to the space age. Nothing feels better than dominating Genghis Khan and Napoleon at the same time. For Xbox 360, PS3 and DS. Rating: E10+ for Everyone 10 and older.
 Warhammer Online Ideal audience: massively multiplayer online gamers who cannot satisfy their bloodlust in World of Warcraft. Don't get me wrong; like more than 10 million other people, I love World of Warcraft. But great games can stand some competition, and Warhammer Online, the new online version of the decades-old British fantasy universe, provides it. Warhammer employs many conventions from Warcraft but gives them a new twist in a game that focuses largely on player-versus-player combat, rather than on battling computer-controlled foes. For PC. Rating: T for Teen.
 Wii Fit Ideal audience: couch produce of all ages. Nintendo's best game of the year is not really a game. It's a light exercise system meant to take just a few calories off. The most surprising thing: it works. For Wii. Rating: E for Everyone.
 LITTLEBIGPLANET Ideal audience: aspiring game designers and anyone else with excellent eye-hand coordination. The breakout title this year for Sony's PlayStation 3, LittleBigPlanet is in some ways as close to YouTube as games have come. In its essence it is merely a ''platformer'': you navigate your little beanbag character mostly by running and jumping. The secret sauce is that the game allows users to create their own levels and share them easily with other players online. Rating: E.
 DEAD SPACE Ideal audience: people who like being scared. Dead Space is a straight-ahead science fiction survival-horror experience. You, the player, are trapped on a spooky spaceship with a horde of space zombies who want to eat you, or turn you into one of them, or something. You wade through them while engaging in what is charmingly referred to as ''strategic dismemberment.'' For what it is, though, Dead Space is both conceived and executed at a high level. For Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. Rating: M.
 FALLOUT 3 Ideal audience: old-school role-playing gamers and anyone who wants to see Washington in ashes. The return of the classic Fallout series is a sprawling re-creation of the Capitol area after a nuclear war. The tone is darker and less slyly humorous than previous Fallout games, but the sheer size and ambition of the game impress. For Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. Rating: M.
 PROFESSOR LAYTON AND THE CURIOUS VILLAGE Ideal audience: puzzle fans. One of the sleepers of 2008, Professor Layton ties together more than 100 beautifully designed brainteasers with an endearing anime-style story. The puzzles themselves are perfectly intelligible to nongamers. For Nintendo DS. Rating: E.
 GEARS OF WAR 2 Ideal audience: testosterone-fueled core gamers who like chain saws. When you think about the stereotypical video game, this is what you're thinking about: big guns, voracious alien bad guys, great graphics, huge explosions, cardboard-cutout characters, silly dialogue and cheap thrills all around. Not that there's anything wrong with that. For Xbox 360. Rating: M.
 FABLE II Ideal audience: emotionally mature children and most fans of delicate entertainment design. This game is rated M not because it is especially violent or profane. It is rated M because in between casting spells and swinging swords you can have children, you can get married (and have affairs if you choose), and you can buy condoms. Shocking, I know. For children who are comfortable with the basic facts of life, there is no reason not to share Fable II. It's a wonderful game on its own, and it beats handing a child a virtual machine gun. For Xbox 360.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); FILM (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); LARCENY & THEFT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1147 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Economic Gloom Has Dimmed the Golden Years

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Unable to Sell Homes, Elderly Forgo Move to Assisted Living'' (news article, Nov. 22) illustrates the sad reality of the economy and its devastating effects on our senior population. 
 All Americans find the housing crisis overwhelming, but for the elderly who require additional care and assistance, the option to relocate to appropriate settings to meet their needs is diminished. 
 The billions of dollars in the bailout program may not be targeted to meet the needs of this vulnerable population who worked hard to be self-sufficient and never dreamed of this situation for their golden years.
 Teri Koff New York, Nov. 22, 2008
 The writer, a social worker, is an elder care specialist.
 To the Editor:
 In the early 1960s in Nebraska when my husband and I were struggling financially, we rented part of a large house from an elderly woman. Her family lived back East, and they were delighted to have us in the house so that they could be sure that their mother was safe. 
 She was a very fine lady -- she enjoyed us, and we enjoyed her. She delighted in our two young children, and they were enriched by her presence. 
 I was teaching, and my husband was farming. It was easy to check on our reliability in the rather small town where we lived.
 I hope that this story might encourage the children of elderly people who shouldn't be living alone to consider a similar arrangement. This is a tough time for some young couples, and they might appreciate modest, inexpensive living quarters in exchange for looking after someone's mother.
 If references seem unwieldy, church contacts or mutual acquaintances might bring together those who need some supervision and those who need a place to live.
 Jeanne Fielden Tempe, Ariz., Nov. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The impact of the financial meltdown on older adults goes much beyond that mentioned in your Nov. 22 article. The failing economy affects the 34 million family caregivers on whom many older adults rely to keep them at home and out of expensive long-term care. 
 In addition to their unpaid labor, estimated to be worth $375 billion a year, family caregivers pay for many goods and services that their aging and ailing family members need. Already pushed to their financial limits, family caregivers are at risk of facing job insecurity and other economic problems. 
 If this trend continues, our health care system could undergo its own meltdown. ''Safety net'' resources, especially Medicaid, would be hard pressed to accommodate an influx of new beneficiaries needing long-term care. 
 Policy makers must quickly address the economic threat to family caregivers -- an invisible but essential work force.
 Carol Levine Dir., Families and Health Care Project United Hospital Fund New York, Nov. 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICAID (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TRENDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1148 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: In Lean Times, Many Find Comfort in a Bountiful Meal

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY; Reporting was contributed by Karen Ann Cullotta in Chicago, Steven Freiss in Las Vegas, Carmen Gentile in Miami, Christopher Maag in Mount Gilead, Ohio, and Joel Stonington in New York.

 BODY:
With the economy crippled, joblessness at a 14-year high and more financial bad news almost certain to come, there was a lot less, materially speaking, for thousands to be grateful for as they gathered around Thanksgiving tables. 
 For many, the elation that followed the election of the nation's first black president was tempered by more immediate concerns, like where the next paycheck might come from. And yet coast to coast, people approached Thanksgiving with something close to a gritty resolve this year, determined to find a few hours of respite from their worries. 
 ''I spend a lot of time at night, ruminating how I'm going to get by,'' said Tracy Louis-Marie, a mother of two who lives in Los Angeles. Her husband is an illustrator, and his workload has fallen by half in the last two months. ''I'd like these three hours this afternoon to be an oasis of stress-free time,'' Ms. Louis-Marie said. 
 Some people pared their dinners. Fixings were less lavish, relatives canceled long-distance travel plans and hosts had potluck meals to spread the cost. Ms. Louis-Marie prepared an all-organic Thanksgiving last year, but this year she could afford to go organic with only one dish: the bird. Yet, in the spirit of the holiday, she invited a relative stranger, a dog-walker from her neighborhood, over to eat. 
 For Matt Egan, a newly unemployed father of three who lives in Mount Gilead, Ohio, the day was darkened with fears about how his family would make it through the holidays.
 Mr. Egan received an automated call last Saturday, informing him that he was being laid off from his job as a presser at a nearby Whirlpool factory. Last week, his wife, Tracy, also lost her job as an information technology specialist. The couple, both 35, spent Thanksgiving at the home of Mr. Egan's father, after loading their 6-year-old daughter and 1-year-old twins into the family car, all the while trying to keep up a cheerful front.
 ''Now we're just stunned, walking around trying to figure out what to do,'' Mr. Egan said. ''There's only so much pessimism we can let in, because we've got little kids.'' 
 Other families had especially lavish feasts, as if in defiance of the hard times. 
 Tanya Harper, whose hair salon in Manhattan has seen a 30 percent drop in business, spent the afternoon with 150 of her relatives and friends in a banquet hall in Jamaica, Queens. Five of the oldest family members died this past year, so the surviving relatives, who are from Barbados, resolved to ward off sadness by throwing a huge party, replete with African dancers, five turkeys, six hams and Caribbean dishes, like flying fish. 
 ''We are not rich,'' Ms. Harper said, ''but our family needs to get together more often, and enjoy each other, and give thanks.'' 
 Many people took extra comfort in their families this year. In Miami, Jorge and Caridad Brenlla served dinner for seven: turkey and traditional Cuban fare, like black beans, rice and fried plantains. Mr. Brenlla, who is 57 and a contractor, said demand for his work slowed to a crawl this year, as Florida bore much of the brunt of the housing crash. Mr. Brenlla is also a Republican, and remains deeply disappointed about the defeat of Senator John McCain of Arizona in the presidential election. Still, the family's Thanksgiving was especially joyous because Mr. Brenlla's sister was visiting from Havana, and the siblings had not seen each other in 27 years. 
 In Democratic homes, joy at Barack Obama's election victory helped lift foul moods. ''For us, Obama winning the election is a big step forwards,'' said Jamie Robinson, 31, who lives in Chicago, and is of African-American, Irish and Native American heritage. 
 In a Las Vegas suburb, at a yearly gathering of about a dozen gay and lesbian friends at the home of Sigrid Brunel and Argentina Kapp, the mood was far cheerier than last year, when anxiety about the coming election and anger about the war in Iraq clouded much of the discussion. Yet the guests were outraged this year at the passage of Proposition 8 in California, which banned, again, same-sex marriages. 
 For the most part, Thanksgiving dinners were unchanged from previous years, even as families cut corners elsewhere. 
 In the Bronx, upwards of 30 guests had been invited to the four-bedroom apartment shared by one extended family, comprising the Roberthsons and the Moores. Many in the family are on a budget, yet their Thanksgiving spread was nonetheless a showcase of abundance, and included cornbread, macaroni and cheese, fried chicken, collard greens, candied yams, pot roasts and four types of pie.
 In their spacious apartment in the Upper West Side of Manhattan, Jake and Amy Schrader, the parents of 5-year-old twins, spent Thursday afternoon preparing hearty Thanksgiving fare. They have been the hosts of the holiday dinner for the past four years, and seven relatives joined them on Thursday. The dishes were the same, though this year there was a side of denial: Mr. Schrader, an equities trader, has stopped opening the envelopes containing statements for his retirement savings and the twins' college funds.
 In Chicago, Dolores Hernandez, a 52-year-old home health care nurse, celebrated with her husband, Carlos, 50, their two college-age children and several elderly relatives, in their home in the northwest part of the city. 
 Mr. Hernandez owns a Chicago restaurant, Don Carlos, which has been devastated by the economic turndown. So Ms. Hernandez has taken on three nursing jobs in the past year, and usually works 60 hours a week. But she took Thanksgiving off. 
 ''We'll be talking about politics, and, of course, the bad economy, which has affected our own family,'' Ms. Hernandez said. ''My nephew recently moved in with us, because he had his hours cut at the dealership where he works, and he can't afford rent anymore.''
 Ms. Hernandez's nephew opted to eat Thanksgiving with other relatives, but the Hernandezes still prepared a lavish spread. They are from Mexico yet they have wholly embraced traditional American Thanksgiving fare, with one exception: jalapeno-cilantro salsa, a family specialty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Martha Roberthson worked on the pies while her husband, Sellis, watched over the kitchen where their extended family gathered for Thanksgiving in the Bronx.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Argentina Kapp was the co-host of a dinner for a dozen friends, not including the nosy Jesse, at her home near Las Vegas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RONDA CHURCHILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Jake Schrader, right, and his wife, Amy, prepared their traditional meal for their children and other relatives in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); FAMILY (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LAYOFFS (69%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (69%); DISMISSALS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); BARBADOS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1149 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Dying of Consumption

BYLINE: By STEPHEN S. ROACH. 
Stephen S. Roach is the chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia.

DATELINE: Hong Kong 

 BODY:
 IT'S game over for the American consumer. Inflation-adjusted personal consumption expenditures are on track for rare back-to-back quarterly declines in the second half of 2008 at a 3.5 percent average annual rate. There are only four other instances since 1950 when real consumer demand has fallen for two quarters in a row. This is the first occasion when declines in both quarters will have exceeded 3 percent. The current consumption plunge is without precedent in the modern era. 
 The good news is that lines should be short for today's ''first shopping day'' of the holiday season. The bad news is more daunting: rising unemployment, weakening incomes, falling home values, a declining stock market, record household debt and a horrific credit crunch. But there is a deeper, potentially positive, meaning to all this: Consumers are now abandoning the asset-dependent spending and saving strategies they embraced during the bubbles of the past dozen years and moving back to more prudent income-based lifestyles. 
 This is a painful but necessary adjustment. Since the mid-1990s, vigorous growth in American consumption has consistently outstripped subpar gains in household income. This led to a steady decline in personal saving. As a share of disposable income, the personal saving rate fell from 5.7 percent in early 1995 to nearly zero from 2005 to 2007.
 In the days of frothy asset markets, American consumers had no compunction about squandering their savings and spending beyond their incomes. Appreciation of assets -- equity portfolios and, especially, homes -- was widely thought to be more than sufficient to make up the difference. But with most asset bubbles bursting, America's 77 million baby boomers are suddenly facing a savings-short retirement.
 Worse, millions of homeowners used their residences as collateral to take out home equity loans. According to Federal Reserve calculations, net equity extractions from United States homes rose from about 3 percent of disposable personal income in 2000 to nearly 9 percent in 2006. This newfound source of purchasing power was a key prop to the American consumption binge. 
 As a result, household debt hit a record 133 percent of disposable personal income by the end of 2007 -- an enormous leap from average debt loads of 90 percent just a decade earlier. 
 In an era of open-ended house price appreciation and extremely cheap credit, few doubted the wisdom of borrowing against one's home. But in today's climate of falling home prices, frozen credit markets, mounting layoffs and weakening incomes, that approach has backfired. It should hardly be surprising that consumption has faltered so sharply. 
 A decade of excess consumption pushed consumer spending in the United States up to 72 percent of gross domestic product in 2007, a record for any large economy in the modern history of the world. With such a huge portion of the economy now shrinking, a deep and protracted recession can hardly be ruled out. Consumption growth, which averaged close to 4 percent annually over the past 14 years, could slow into the 1 percent to 2 percent range for the next three to five years.
 The United States needs a very different set of policies to cope with its post-bubble economy. It would be a serious mistake to enact tax cuts aimed at increasing already excessive consumption. Americans need to save. They don't need another flat-screen TV made in China. 
 The Obama administration needs to encourage the sort of saving that will put consumers on sounder financial footing and free up resources that could be directed at long overdue investments in transportation infrastructure, alternative energy, education, worker training and the like. This strategy would not only create jobs but would also cut America's dependence on foreign saving and imports. That would help reduce the current account deficit and the heavy foreign borrowing such an imbalance entails. 
 We don't need to reinvent the wheel to come up with effective saving policies. The money has to come out of Americans' paychecks. This can be either incentive driven -- expanded 401(k) and I.R.A. programs -- or mandatory, like increased Social Security contributions. As long as the economy stays in recession, any tax increases associated with mandatory saving initiatives should be off the table. (When times improve, however, that may be worth reconsidering.) 
 Fiscal policy must also be aimed at providing income support for newly unemployed middle-class workers -- particularly expanded unemployment insurance and retraining programs. A critical distinction must be made between providing assistance for the innocent victims of recession and misplaced policies aimed at perpetuating an unsustainable consumption binge.
 Crises are the ultimate in painful learning experiences. The United States cannot afford to squander this opportunity. Runaway consumption must now give way to a renewal of saving and investment. That's the best hope for economic recovery and for America's longer-term economic prosperity. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY AUGUST HEFFNER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); INFLATION (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); SAVINGS RATES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); HISTORY (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1150 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Getting the Bonus You Deserve

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 It was no surprise that the bankers mentioned in ''What's the Value of a Big Bonus?,'' by Dan Ariely (Op-Ed, Nov. 20), would not pay for a study on their industry concerning how bonuses affect performance. 
 They are quickly waking up to the fact that the bonus system studied by Mr. Ariely has not been working. 
 I would suggest that the financial crisis has now made it possible for high-ranking executives to participate in the bonus system that most of us have operated under for years. 
 This real-life bonus system works as follows: 
 If you do your job well, your bonus is that you keep your job. 
 If you muddle through your tasks, your bonus is that you get demoted. 
 If you do your job poorly, your bonus is that you are shown the door. 
 I feel that this is a much more effective motivational tool. It does not have the ambiguous results shown in Mr. Ariely's study.
 Jeff Nathan Highland Park, Ill., Nov. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Dan Ariely seems to overlook 30 years of research in psychology that demonstrates the efficacy of incentives for increasing the performance of individuals in a wide range of jobs. 
 When tied to setting goals, money can lead to dramatic increases in productivity. It is not necessarily a simple formula: the nature of the task matters, as does an individual's perceived ability to complete the task or reach the goal. 
 That being said, I still wonder whether paying an executive a $1.9 million bonus will increase his or her productivity to a significantly greater degree than, say, a $1.1 million bonus. 
 While some level of bonus may be motivating, the larger issue is the demotivating effect that inequitable compensation has on lower-level employees.
 Cynthia A. Thompson New York, Nov. 20, 2008
 The writer is a professor of management at Baruch College in New York.
 To the Editor:
 Dan Ariely provides new data further substantiating the idea that there is no economic reason for paying extremely high compensation to corporate leaders. 
 One need only look at the world of politics to see that men and women compete for positions of leadership for reasons having little or nothing to do with compensation. 
 It's the power to influence, and the satisfaction of being recognized as top dog, that motivates most of those who strive for leadership positions.
 If people should be compensated in large part based on the amount of money their organizations manage, then the secretary of the Treasury and the commissioner of the I.R.S. are the most underpaid individuals in the country.
 John V. Kjellman Henniker, N.H., Nov. 20, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 There is an important issue that Dan Ariely did not address: the ethical implications of bonus incentives. 
 I wonder if the short-term rewards of getting a big bonus for maximizing profit would lead an executive to engage in unethical behavior that would enhance his bonus at the expense of the consumer, as well as the long-term benefit to the organization. 
 I wonder how many C.E.O.'s behind subprime loans, derivatives and credit swaps were thinking of their bonus rather than of the ethical standards of making such loans.
 Jesse Silverglate Pembroke Pines, Fla., Nov. 20, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTTO DETTMER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHICS (78%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1151 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: TAKING QUESTIONS

 BODY:
TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week on the blog, Joel Berg, the executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger and the author of ''All You Can Eat: How Hungry is America?'' is answering readers' questions about what New Yorkers can do to reduce hunger in the city. Here's an excerpt. 
 Q. Do we know the societal economic costs of hunger? For example, how hunger contributes to medical care costs, loss of productivity, etc.?Sondra 
 A. Excellent question: A recent study by J. Larry Brown of the Harvard School of Public Health concluded: ''The cost burden of hunger in the United States is a minimum of $90 billion annually. This means that on average each person living in the United States pays $300 annually for the hunger bill. On a household basis this is $800 a year. Calculated on a lifetime basis, each of us pays a $22,000 tax for the existence of hunger.''
 On the basis of that study, I calculated that in New York City alone, city residents pay an estimated $2.65 billion per year, or about $335 per resident, resulting from indirect costs of the city's 1.3 million food-insecure residents. 
 In contrast, I have calculated that it would cost America an additional $24 billion per year to end hunger. If we invested $24 billion to save $90 billion, I'd say that was a great investment indeed.
 Q. I'm curious about hunger as it intersects with obesity in low-income and marginal neighborhoods in New York. Take a trip through Spanish Harlem or the South Bronx and you'll see some of the highest rates of obesity and adult-onset (Type II) diabetes in the city ... yet hunger continues to be a problem in this country.CW
 A. Hunger and obesity are flip sides of the same malnutrition coin. While some of the hungriest and poorest Americans eat so little that they lose weight, many others, with a marginally better ability to get food, eat food of such poor nutritional quality that they gain weight. 
 Nutritious foods are frequently more expensive than less nutritious alternatives. In October 2007, a gallon of milk cost $3.84 on average, but two liters of cola were $1.23. Potatoes cost 52 cents per pound, but lettuce cost $1.49, broccoli $1.53, and strawberries $2. 
 And even if people could afford nutritious food, it is often simply unavailable in their neighborhoods because of supermarket exodus in low-income neighborhoods. 
 Q. I am a professional in my 20s and I would love to help end hunger in New York City, but I cannot afford to make any monetary or food donations. However, I can give my time and services. What is the best organization that needs volunteers? How do I go about approaching an organization to offer them my services? OP
 A. We urge people to volunteer at feeding charities, and to do so at the New York City Coalition Against Hunger Web site, www.nyccah.org/volunteer. 
 But many pantries and kitchens need relatively few volunteers throughout the year for manual tasks like serving soup or packing cans, and most agencies usually don't need large groups of professionals for manual tasks involved in feeding people. 
 It would help the agencies much more if people could help with long-term professional tasks related to their skill set: accounting, working on computers, public relations, fund-raising, graphic design or even organizing other volunteers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); NUTRITION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); OBESITY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); MALNUTRITION (78%); CITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); DIETING (71%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (64%); DIABETES (63%); VOLUNTEERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1152 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Tories Seek to End Public Financing of Political Parties

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Canada's governing Conservatives announced plans on Thursday to eliminate public financing of all political parties, raising the possibility of a new federal election less than two months after the last one. 
 All three opposition parties in Parliament said they would vote against the measure, which was included in a broad economic statement by Jim Flaherty, the finance minister. That probably would ensure its defeat in the House of Commons, where the Conservatives do not control a majority of the votes. By Parliamentary tradition the failure of a money bill would force the government's collapse and possibly a general election.
 The Conservatives presented the plan, which would eliminate 30 million Canadian dollars in annual public campaign financing, to cut the budget. But their opponents and many outsiders argue that it is an attempt to undermine other political parties, which rely on the financing system much more than the Conservatives do. 
 ''It's pure political gimmickry,'' said C. E. S. Franks, a professor emeritus of political science at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario.
 Compared with the United States, Canada has long maintained tight restrictions on political fund-raising. In 2003, a Liberal, Jean Chretien, then prime minister, sought to reduce the influence of powerful groups in politics by banning donations from corporations and unions.
 To compensate for the loss of corporate and labor money, both of which were particularly important for the Liberals, the government began making annual payments to all parties that had won at least 2 percent of the votes in the previous election. Parties are now paid 1.95 Canadian dollars for every vote received.
 The stable financing provided by the new system has revived the labor-backed New Democratic Party and transformed the Green Party of Canada into a national force.
 Some critics argue that it has also led to the peculiar situation of federal government money sustaining the Bloc Quebecois, a party devoted to Quebec's separation from Canada.
 The current Conservative Party grew out of the Canadian Alliance, a populist movement. Unlike the other major parties, it has maintained a large base of individual donors, who are limited to giving 1,100 Canadian dollars each, and would be affected far less by a loss of public money.
 The Liberals, by contrast, are already struggling financially and probably would be ruined by such a loss.
 While none of the opposition parties can afford to lose public financing, they are also not keen to return to campaigning just a week after Parliament reopened. They are in negotiations to find a way to defeat the government's plan without forcing a vote, party officials said.
 Professor Franks said that the comparative youth of the current Parliament could mean that the governor general, Michaelle Jean, might turn to the opposition parties to form a government if the Conservative plan was defeated. The opposition would, he added, probably have to publicly sign a formal agreement to support any resulting government for a fixed period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); POLITICS (92%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); CORPORATE GIVING (69%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAELLE JEAN (59%); JEAN CHRETIEN (59%); JIM FLAHERTY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (74%) CANADA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1153 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 7066 words

HEADLINE: Art Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT,' through March 29. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small, tightly focused exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ART AND CHINA'S REVOLUTION,' through Jan. 11. The splashy party that was the 2008 Olympics is yesterday's news, but one-party rule in China remains. New China is still, in significant ways, Old China. The obvious question is: What comes next? To help answer it, Asia Society asks a different, equally timely post-Olympics question: What came before? This exhibition of paintings, drawings, posters and Maoist souvenirs produced in the years leading up to and during the Cultural Revolution gives complicated answers. It lays out the conflicted loyalties that have shaped contemporary China, and finds them in the work of artists who anticipated the current art boom and are part of it. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
 * ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'TRACES OF THE CALLIGRAPHER: ISLAMIC CALLIGRAPHY IN PRACTICE, CIRCA 1600-1900' AND 'WRITING THE WORD OF GOD: CALLIGRAPHY AND THE QUR'AN,' through Feb. 8. These side-by-side exhibitions, perfect in size and carefully thought out, approach Islamic calligraphy from two perspectives. The first show is basically a manual in techniques of fine penmanship and luxury book-making, illustrated by superb examples of tools of the trade and finished products. The second is an array of hand-written Koran pages for total-immersion contemplation. Gorgeous. (See above.) (Cotter)
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate, stripped-down installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GILBERT & GEORGE,' through Jan. 11. Dynamic duo, gruesome twosome or just plain geeks in ties and tweeds, the British artists Gilbert & George don't seem to care what you call them as long as you pay attention, which you couldn't avoid doing if you tried in their suffocating and disordered wraparound survey at the Brooklyn Museum. In no particular sequence, we see the shadowy early black-and-white photographic pieces they did while living in a falling-down section of London in the 1970s, and the huge Pop colored murals filled with flowers and crowds of dishy young men, which decrease in number during the most devastating years of the AIDS epidemic. The newest work in the show, from 2005 and 2006, is crazy, end-of-time stuff. Terrorism and religious fundamentalism are the themes, and Gilbert and George themselves, partners in art as in life, are in the picture, mugging, moralizing, unembarrassed and all but unendurable, in art that's right for right now. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'JESPER JUST: ROMANTIC DELUSIONS,' through Jan. 4. An enchanting show of four short films exhibits most of the qualities for which Mr. Just has become known since completing his studies at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in 2003. Melodramatic but never campy or over the top and made with Hollywood-quality production values, his brief musicals explore vulnerable, ordinarily well-armored zones of the masculine psyche, like grief, same-sex love, Oedipal conflict and spiritual desire. The singing is wonderful. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'HOUSE PROUD: 19TH-CENTURY WATERCOLOR INTERIORS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION,' through Jan. 25. The 70 or so jewel-like renderings of rooms and their furnishings here are delightful, mordantly signifying artifacts. They track the domestic effects of exoticism and nostalgia (chinoiserie, Gothic Revival); uncover glimmers of modernity (Biedermeier, smaller rooms); and witness the birth of the contemporary genre known as shelter porn. Accompanied by relevant examples of furniture, decorative objects and books, they also reveal that rooms seen whole, with light and space as well as decor carefully depicted, are among painting's most appealing subjects. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)
 * FRICK COLLECTION: 'ANDREA RICCIO: RENAISSANCE MASTER OF BRONZE,' through Jan. 18. Scholars say that Andrea Riccio was one of the greatest sculptors of the Italian Renaissance. Cast in dark bronze and resembling Roman antiquities, Riccio's small-scale statuettes, reliefs and oil lamps seem unremarkably modest at first. But let your eyes adjust to the formal subtlety, expressive urgency and almost supernatural aliveness of his art and you will fall in love. Sculpture does not get much better than this. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM:
 'THEANYSPACEWHATEVER,' through Jan. 7. The innately sculptural Guggenheim mounts the first major exhibition in this country about relational aesthetics -- probably the most radical art to emerge in the 1990s -- and comes up looking, well, remarkably empty, which is also extraordinarily beautiful in its own Wright. The more or less interactive works by 10 artists invite you to experience in a new way time, space, the art-viewing world and the museum itself. Even if you never want to see the museum going this far out again, the Guggenheim must be credited for bringing the latest art remarkably intact to a larger public. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith) 
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CATHERINE OPIE: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER,' through Jan. 7. Catherine Opie is many artists in one. Best known in the 1990s for her striking portraits of gay, lesbian and transgendered men and women drawn from a circle of friends and intimates, she is also a photographer of landscapes, cityscapes, architecture, still lifes and lifestyles. She is an insider and an outsider: a documentarian and a provocateur, a classicist and a maverick; a trekker and a stay-at-home; a lesbian feminist mother who resists the gay mainstream. It's all here in a fine retrospective. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AMERICA AND THE TINTYPE,' through Jan. 4. This show about the tintype, an early form of photograph made by exposing a lacquered iron plate to light, includes some 200 examples from the museum's collection. Most of the artists, and subjects, are unidentified. These works form a group portrait of Americans, mostly working- and middle-class, struggling to adapt to the rapidly shifting social and economic conditions during the four decades after the Civil War. The exhibition makes the most of the tintype's range of subject matter and emotion, from postmortem shots to vaudevillian caricatures, freedmen to minstrels. It does not dispute the daguerreotype's superior potentials for artistry but simply asserts that tintypes have been unfairly overlooked because of their ubiquity, affordability and anonymity. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'SUSAN MEISELAS: IN HISTORY,' through Jan. 4. A certain moral quandary runs throughout this fascinatingly problematic exhibition: how do you reconcile the demands of professionalism and those of human compassion? To her credit, Ms. Meiselas -- whose coverage of the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua in 1978-79 made her one of the world's most celebrated and criticized war correspondents -- does not duck the question. Tension between opportunism and conscience emerges as the show's main interest -- to the point that it trumps its ostensible subjects, which include strippers in traveling carnivals and forensic investigations of Saddam Hussein's campaign against the Kurds in northern Iraq. (See above.)(Johnson)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'CHAGALL AND THE ARTISTS OF THE RUSSIAN JEWISH THEATER, 1919-1949,' through March 22. A fascinating tale of two vanguard theater companies that flourished in Moscow for a few years after the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 is told by this big, walk-in scrapbook of a show presenting more than 200 pieces of art and ephemera. Exploring the histories of the Hebrew-speaking Habima theater and the Yiddish-speaking Moscow State Yiddish Theater, the exhibition includes drawings, paintings, photographs, posters, sheet music, costumes and clips from vintage films. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART AND LOVE IN RENAISSANCE ITALY,' through Feb. 16. With the most cherished of all human emotions as its central theme, this exhibition examines 14th- and 15th-century marriage rituals in Italy in terms of the many sumptuous objects and artworks they generated. The show includes ceramics, paintings, a cradle, wedding portraits and childbirth trays. Its many images mix happy endings and cautionary tales (some of the most gruesome intended for bridal chambers). Profane love is acknowledged with a choice display of erotica. The commoditization and adoration of women run on parallel tracks, right up to and including two majestic paintings by Titian. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE MET: 'BEYOND BABYLON: ART, TRADE, AND DIPLOMACY IN THE SECOND MILLENNIUM B.C.,' through March 15. This big, prescient, concentration-taxing exhibition is the latest in the Met's line of investigative archaeological shows, and it is not geared to quick-take viewing. Many of the objects are small and intimate; made to be worn, handled and easily transported. A proliferation of wall texts gives the show the pace of a lavishly illustrated book. Patient viewing is rewarded by a fascinating story of a proto-global world in formation nearly 4,000 years ago. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES,' through March 22. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive. A related show, ''The Poetics of Cloth: African Textiles/Recent Art,'' is at the Grey Art Gallery at New York University. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'EARLY BUDDHIST MANUSCRIPT PAINTING: THE PALM-LEAF TRADITION,' through March 22. Practical features like resilience and portability help explain why books written on dried palm leaves were popular with Buddhists in eastern India between the 10th and 13th centuries. But another factor, surely, was the quality of the illustrations that accompanied the texts: exquisite figures of divinities or scenes from the Buddha's life. And few of these are as finely done and pristinely preserved as the examples in this small selection. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'GIORGIO MORANDI, 1890-1964,' through Dec. 14. Aspirants to the role of painter as poet are many. Giorgio Morandi (1890-1964) was the real thing. And this Morandi retrospective at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is something that anyone who loves painting and its very specific poetry will want to see. Morandi's still lifes are beautiful, but with a distinctive kind of beauty. And despite their small size and plain components -- bottles, jars, boxes, pots, seashells, vases -- they are emotionally audacious. This isn't because of what they say outright, but because of what they don't say; because they are so evidently shaped by self-restraint, and the passions that produced it. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'LANDSCAPES CLEAR AND RADIANT: THE ART OF WANG HUI (1632-1717),' through Jan. 4. The Met's first solo show devoted to a Chinese master is gorgeous and revelatory; its focus is the landscape virtuoso Wang Hui, star of the 17th-century Chinese art scene. Wang could do anything and did, synthesizing and transforming disparate strands of almost a millennium of Chinese painting, but also making exact copies of earlier masterpieces. Distinguished by a Mozart-like ease and perfection, his work unsettles Western notions of copy, original and originality. It is aided in this by displays of works by 16 earlier artists dating to the 10th-century -- his mentors, his mentors' mentors and the artists they all revered -- which form a dazzling introduction to Chinese painting in general. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'THE PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO YEARS: CURATORS CELEBRATE THREE DECADES OF ACQUISITIONS,' through Feb. 1. As the title implies, the show is a tribute to Mr. de Montebello, who is leaving the Met after being director for more than 30 years. For the occasion, curators in 17 of the museum departments have chosen objects in their fields of expertise from the permanent collection. There are marvelous things here, from Chinese scrolls, Greek vessels and Oceanic effigies to Byzantine icons and an 18th-century American pickle-holder. In short, a wonder-cabinet situation. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'RHYTHMS OF MODERN LIFE: BRITISH PRINTS 1914-1939,' through Dec. 7. This interesting but confusingly organized exhibition considers the impact of modernity and machine-age idealism on 13 progressive British printmakers. Much of the show is given over to a group of artists active in the 1920s and '30s -- including Claude Flight, Cyril E. Power and Sybil Andrews -- who created colorful linocuts in a lively synthesis of Cubism, Futurism and Art Deco. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: JOHN MILTON'S 'PARADISE LOST,' through Jan. 4. To honor Milton's quadricentennial, eight of the pages of the only known surviving manuscript of Book 1 of ''Paradise Lost'' are on view, along with other Miltoniana, including a first edition and a miniature portrait believed to be of the poet. The handwriting is a scribe's; Milton, who was blind, composed the work orally. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org.
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through Feb. 15. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a loveseat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style, American jazz was the music, and skyscrapers and sumptuous ocean liners were among the symbols of the age. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image (including many surprisingly effective digital reproductions), it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knock-offs and originals, businessmen (especially developers) and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN DIASPORAN ARTS: 'I AM A MAN,' through Jan. 18. The words that make up the title of this strong, timely group show were emblazoned on placards carried by striking black workers in Birmingham, Ala., in 1968. But the show turns the original assertion into a question: what does it mean to be an African-American male today? A smart Pop-style painting by Fahamu Pecou sends up stereotypes of sexual prowess; a video by Lorenzo Steele Jr. looks at prison life from the inside; Jefferson Pinder casts his sights back to the Civil Rights movement's espousal of passive resistance in a video piece that illustrates that ideal in action. The written statements by each artist are well worth reading. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0492, mocada.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JOAN MIRO: PAINTING AND ANTI-PAINTING 1927-1937,' through Jan. 12. When, in 1927, Joan Miro said, ''I want to assassinate painting,'' he wasn't saying anything new. What was new was the way he carried out his self-assigned, cut-throat task. And that process is the subject of this invigorating, absorbing and -- Miro would be mortified -- beautiful show. It illustrates, step by step, how he stalked and attacked painting -- zapped its conventions, messed up its history, spoiled its market value -- through distinctive groups of experimental works produced over a decade. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'LOOKING AT MUSIC,' through Jan. 5. This exhibition of about 40 works from the museum's collection emphasizes the experimental nature of both art and music in the late 1960s and early '70s. The lines dividing art, music and film were blurry enough to allow Laurie Anderson, Bruce Nauman and Yoko Ono, among others, to shift from object making to performance and back again. The show, which includes audio recordings and small-press publications alongside more conventional mediums, is accompanied by an extensive film and video program. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY 2008: JOSEPHINE MECKSEPER AND MIKHAEL SUBOTZKY,' through Jan. 5. Josephine Meckseper, a German-born artist in her 40s who was trained at the California Institute of the Arts, makes sleek-looking installations that mix photography and film -- often scenes of political protest -- with consumer objects. The South African artist Mikhael Subotzky, who at 26 is the youngest photographer to have been invited to join the Magnum Group, explores his country's prison system in vivid color and unflinching detail. If Ms. Meckseper finds glossy, consumerist fantasy infiltrating our political consciousness, Mr. Subotzky reminds us that some people don't yet have the luxury of fretting about the commodification of dissent. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'VAN GOGH AND THE COLORS OF THE NIGHT,' through Jan. 5. This small, anomalous exhibition is a Van Gogh antiblockbuster with a seemingly counterintuitive theme, given the importance of the brilliant light of southern France to his art. It explores Van Gogh's special relationship with darkness, where his interests in perception, color and symbolism fuse with unexpected intensity. And seeing a manageable number of Van Goghs -- including masterpieces like ''The Potato Eaters,'' ''The Starry Night'' and ''Night Cafe'' -- in intimate galleries is thrilling. (See above.) (Smith)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'GEORGE TOOKER: A RETROSPECTIVE,' through Jan. 4. George Tooker has painted some of the 20th century's most memorable images of angst. With its lost souls haunting the New York underground, ''Subway'' (1950) envisions modernity as a spiritual prison system. The Kafkaesque ''Government Bureau'' (1956) pictures an office of seemingly infinite dimensions, where people wait like penitents at the windows of terminally unresponsive bureaucrats. Both paintings are included in this richly affecting five-decade career retrospective. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Johnson)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'ALFRED KUBIN: DRAWINGS, 1897-1909,' through Jan. 26. You would never guess that the Viennese artist Alfred Kubin was a contemporary of Gustav Klimt; he is closer in spirit to the Belgian James Ensor and the Norwegian Edvard Munch, visionaries who expressed modernity's spiritual toll and anticipated some of the horrors of the 20th century. Executed in black-and-white pen, ink and spray on heavy paper used for cartography, Kubin's drawings map the shadowy corners of the unconscious. Playing to the art's dark themes, the Neue Galerie's third floor has been made over in the sensationally macabre style of a Tim Burton movie. The walls are painted black and brown; red crushed-velvet curtains hang in the doorways; and Kubin's death mask is displayed in a coffinlike glass case. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'LIVE FOREVER: ELIZABETH PEYTON,' through Jan. 11. This lush midcareer survey pays tribute to an artist whose diminutive, irony-free, boldly colored portraits of friends, artists, rock stars and other historic figures, living and dead, have exerted considerable influence over the last 16 years. The reason is a complex, highly effective fusion of the painterly, the personal and the Conceptual, as well as a kind of reverse appropriation, wherein photographs and snapshots are given a new permanence, substance and most of all feeling by being re-engineered into unique art objects. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'MARY HEILMANN: TO BE SOMEONE,' through Jan. 26. Over the past four decades Ms. Heilmann has been painting with an infectious, unabashedly hedonistic joie de vivre. Working with big brushes and generous quantities of paint, she continues to produce wildly colorful abstractions that riff with irreverent verve on basic elements of Modernist painting: the grid, the monochromatic rectangle, stripes, organic forms, linear webs, spots, checks and drips. This exhilarating retrospective presents works dating from 1967 to the present. (See above.) (Johnson)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through April 13. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEXANDER CALDER: THE PARIS YEARS, 1926-1933,' through Feb. 15. Is art glorified child's play, extending into adulthood, through a lifetime, picking up ideas and gaining finesse as it goes? That's one way to think of this exhibition, which focuses intently on one artist's child-within embodied in toys, cartoons and wire figures, with the Whitney's famous ''Calder's Circus'' as a centerpiece and a grown-up modernist surprise at the end. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'WILLIAM EGGLESTON: DEMOCRATIC CAMERA,' through Jan. 25. When William Eggleston's color, snapshot-like photographs of his home territory in the American South were shown at the Museum of Modern Art in 1976, critics squawked that the work was vulgar and haphazard. But these pictures quickly became influential classics. And that's how they look in this 40-year retrospective at the Whitney, the artist's first New York museum solo since his seditious debut. The show includes a recently edited version of Mr. Eggleston's cruel, unusual and ultimately revolting video epic ''Stranded in Canton.'' (See above.) (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'FRANKENTHALER AT EIGHTY: SIX DECADES'Helen Frankenthaler's longtime gallery is throwing her an 80th-birthday party. With nine large-scale works from the artist's personal collection, covering more than five decades, the show takes the form of a mini-retrospective. (A more substantial museum survey is long overdue.) The earliest work is ''Western Dream,'' a maelstrom of lavender-and-coral stains on unprimed canvas; the newest is ''Warming Trend,'' a near-monochrome field of indigo with fiery undertones. Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com, through Jan. 10. (Rosenberg)
 'ISABEL AND OTHER INTIMATE STRANGERS: PORTRAITS BY ALBERTO GIACOMETTI AND FRANCIS BACON' The artist-muse relationship inspires a museum-quality exhibition, inaugurating Gagosian's new fourth-floor exhibition space. The woman singled out in the title is the model Isabel Rawsthorne, whose chiseled cheekbones inspired several paintings by Bacon and sculptures by Giacometti. Other captivating figures in the exhibition include Lucian Freud, in Bacon's portraits, and Giacometti's wife and mistress (in separate, and markedly different, paintings). The show was organized by Veronique Wiesinger, the director of the Giacometti Foundation in Paris, and Martin Harrison, who is overseeing Bacon's catalogue raisonne. Gagosian, 980 Madison Avenue, near 77th Street, (212) 744-2313, gagosian.com, through Dec. 13. (Rosenberg)
 LIZA LOU It's no coincidence that Liza Lou's first New York appearance since a 2002 solo in SoHo takes place in an uptown town house and a Park Avenue lobby. Ms. Lou, a sculptor who makes hand-beaded versions of everyday objects and environments, has shifted from immersive installations (like the ''Kitchen'' and ''Back Yard'' exhibited at the New Museum in the mid-'90s) to highly marketable sculptures and relief paintings. The transition isn't all bad. Ms. Lou's beadwork is still dazzling, and she is certainly experimenting with different genres. The showstopper is ''Security Fence'' (2005-7), a shimmering 10-foot-square enclosure of barbed wire and chain-link steel completely covered with silver beads. (A similar sculpture, ''Maximum Security Fence,'' is on view in the lobby of Lever House, 390 Park Avenue, at 54th Street, through Saturday.) L & M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com, through Dec. 13. (Rosenberg)
 Galleries: SoHo
 ROBERT CUMMING: 'RECOLETA' An exceptionally inventive painter, sculptor and photographer, Mr. Cumming has hand-cut a series of intricate, faux-Victorian silhouette pictures from sheets of black paper. Packed with eccentric storytelling and intriguing symbolism, they were inspired by a visit to La Recoleta, a vast cemetery in Buenos Aires. Janet Borden, 560 Broadway, at West Houston Street, (212) 431-0166, janetbordeninc.com, through Dec. 13. (Johnson)
 TESSA FARMER This imaginative British sculptor has created a hideous race of ant-size ''fairies'': teeny, black humanoid skeletons equipped with insect wings. She has documented their activities, which include hunting, killing and eating bugs much bigger than themselves, in riveting stop-action videos. You also will find them populating sculptures revolving around a mummified dog, a stuffed crow and a dead mouse. Spencer Brownstone Gallery, 39 Wooster Street, (212) 334-3455, spencerbrownstonegallery.com, through Dec. 13. (Johnson)
 CHARLOTTE POSENENSKE: 'PROTOTYPES FOR MASS PRODUCTION (1965-1967)' The works in this exhibition -- simple geometric forms made of folded sheet metal and painted in black and primary-colored enamels -- were intended to be mass-produced, sold at cost and displayed in public. Ms. Posenenske quit making art in 1968 when she concluded that it could not make enough of a political difference in the world, but her sculptures still have a bright, Pop Art-like punch. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com, through Jan. 10. (Johnson)
 KEHINDE WILEY: 'DOWN' Mr. Wiley is known for paintings of young African-American men dressed in fashionable street wear posing against richly patterned backgrounds like heroic figures in Renaissance paintings. This exhibition presents eight enormous paintings of young men in reclining positions. The biggest, called ''Sleep,'' which measures 11 by 25 feet, depicts a muscular man lying back like the dead Jesus, naked but for a snowy white cloth swaddling his hips. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com, through Dec. 20. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 STAN DOUGLAS: 'HUMOR, IRONY AND THE LAW' This show's main attraction, an almost entirely silent film called ''Video,'' combines ponderous academicism and cinematic intrigue. It follows a young woman caught in a Kafkaesque nightmare in which she is harassed by men in trench coats, put on trial, abducted and forced into a final, desperate act. David Zwirner, 533 West 19th Street, (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com, through Dec. 23. (Johnson)
 CHARLES GAINES: 'MANIFESTOS' The politically charged texts scrolling up flat-screen monitors in this poetically resonant and conceptually intriguing exhibition are manifestos from movements like the Black Panthers and the Zapatistas. The minor-key music that accompanies them -- composed using a John Cage-like system of chance and played by a piano quintet -- is beautiful and soothing. Kent, 541 West 25th Street, (212) 627-3680, kentgallery.com, through Dec. 20. (Johnson)
 ZAHA HADID It is hard to think of a living architect who also makes interesting fine art. Ms. Hadid, the world-famous, London-based designer, is no exception. The big, shiny, molded fiberglass works in this two-part exhibition (organized by the London curator Kenny Schachter) resemble flimsy pieces of decor and furniture for one of her aerodynamic, retro-futuristic buildings. Sonnabend, 536 West 22nd Street, and 169 10th Avenue, at 21st Street, (212) 627-1018, rovetv.net, through Dec. 13. (Johnson)
 CINDY SHERMAN After years of vamping behind caricatures or actual masks, Ms. Sherman gets closer to her own skin and to actual photography than she has since the beginning of her career. The convention under scrutiny is the social portrait -- women of stature of some sort. Aging, delusion and pretention are touched on, but they are usually superseded by an aura of determination, discipline and pride -- in other words, parts of the engine that has driven Ms. Sherman's own relentless career. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com, through Dec. 23. (Smith)
 KELLEY WALKER One of the most interesting painters of the moment makes handsomely self-referential expanses of red and white brick walls using a combination of silkscreen, labor-intensive digitalization and collage. The post-modern romance with mechanical reproduction is maintained yet betrayed. The bricks represent with imposing solidity the bare-bones element needed display paintings (walls). Yet up close these works are surprisingly delicate; the mortar, represented by cut-out newspapers of different kinds, is laid on top. There are more paintings than needed to make the point. Perhaps Mr. Walker's vacuous installation with mirrors and disco ball is the counter-argument: resistance to business as usual. Paula Cooper Gallery, 534 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com, through Dec. 13. (Smith)
 Galleries: Other
 ERNST CARAMELLE: 'DOUBLE VISION' Mr. Caramelle partly covers sheets of ordinary colored construction paper with straight-edged pieces of paper, bleaches them in the sun and then removes the masking elements. The resulting geometric compositions have a beguiling luminosity. Tracy Williams Ltd., 313 West Fourth Street, West Village, (212) 229-2757, tracywilliamsltd.com, through Dec. 23. (Johnson)
 'LOOKING BACK' This annual assessment of the previous year in New York art includes a scary sound installation by Paul McCarthy; a pair of funky wooden sculptures of pianos by the playwright Richard Foreman; a sculpture of a white cube with eccentric additions, by Liz Craft; and a satiric videotaped conversation from 1977 between the critic Gregory Battcock and Marcia Tucker, the founding director of the New Museum. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street (entrance on Horatio Street), West Village, (212) 924-4212, whitecolumns.org, through Dec. 13. (Johnson)
 NASREEN MOHAMEDI: 'THE GRID, UNPLUGGED' This show of large, abstract drawings is the third New York solo of work by the Indian artist Nasreen Mohamedi (1937-1990), and the most beautiful yet, which means it's as about as beautiful as gallery shows get. Born to a Muslim family, Mohamedi studied art in London and Paris and was fully conversant with contemporary art in the West. Her major influences, though, were Islamic architecture, the modern urban landscape and fellow South Asian artists working in abstract, linear styles. This deeply moving show also includes digital excerpts from her poetic notebooks. Talwar Gallery, 108 East 16th Street, (212) 673-3096, talwargallery.com, through Dec. 20. (Cotter)
 'PERVERTED BY THEATER' This wildly pluralistic group exhibition rebuts the famous 1967 essay ''Art and Objecthood,'' in which the critic Michael Fried condemned what he saw as a corrupting theatricality in new art. In their brochure essay, the curators Franklin Evans and Paul David Young point out theatrical effects in works by Jim Nutt, Mel Bochner, Laylah Ali, Virgil Marti and others. Apex Art, 291 Church Street, near White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 431-5270, apexart.org, through Dec. 6. (Johnson)
 'THE POETICS OF CLOTH' Emphasizing the place of traditional textiles in works by contemporary African artists, this exhibition includes internationally renowned figures like the Nigerian-born Yinka Shonibare and the Ghanaian El Anatsui. One of the show's discoveries, Grace Ndiritu, uses printed fabrics in an evocative four-screen video installation -- allowing her bare limbs to peek out from behind curtains or posing as a mummified Olympia. A related show, ''The Essential Art of African Textiles: Design Without End,'' is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through Dec. 6. (Rosenberg)
 'ZERO IN NEW YORK' This gorgeous museumlike exhibition displays works by members of the Zero Group, a loose association of '60s-era European avant-gardists. It features works dating from 1957 to 1966 by about 20 artists, including Piero Manzoni, Arman, Yves Klein and Jean Tinguely. Founded in the late 1950s by two Germans, Heinz Mack and Otto Piene, the Zero Group rejected personal expressionism in favor of radically new forms of abstraction. Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com, through Dec. 20. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'R. CRUMB'S UNDERGROUND,' through Dec. 7. The former underground comic artist R. Crumb has created some of the most memorable characters in cartoon history, including the irascible guru Mr. Natural; the suave, shamelessly randy Fritz the Cat; the angry Amazon Devil Girl; and R. Crumb himself, a figure comparable to the autobiographical alter-egos of Woody Allen and Philip Roth. He has been a fearlessly irreverent satirist and an intrepid explorer of his own twisted psyche. And he is excruciatingly funny. This enthralling show presents more than 100 works from all phases of his five-decade career. 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON: 'RACHEL WHITEREAD: PLACE (VILLAGE),' through Jan. 25. This exhibition, the centerpiece of the museum's mini-survey devoted to the British sculptor Rachel Whiteread, may strike the artist's admirers as a bizarre and kitschy departure. Viewers who have never seen one of her room-size casts won't really get a sense of her work from this installation, which is making its United States debut. Still, the show, which includes drawings and a few smaller sculptures, reveals the more emotive side of an artist who can come off as somber and humorless. 465 Huntington Avenue, (617) 267-9300, mfa.org. (Rosenberg)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'JAN LIEVENS: A DUTCH MASTER REDISCOVERED,' through Jan. 11. Although not a household name now, Jan Lievens once was famous throughout Northern Europe for his portraits and his religious and history paintings. A child prodigy, he was a friend and colleague of Rembrandt's. Early in their careers, the two painters worked closely together, and many of Lievens's paintings later were misattributed to Rembrandt. Lievens was not Rembrandt's equal, but he had his moments, especially in remarkably precocious paintings that he made as a teenager. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'POMPEII AND THE ROMAN VILLA: ART AND CULTURE AROUND THE BAY OF NAPLES,' through March 22. This show about the opulent lifestyle of the Roman elite before the A.D. 79 eruption of Vesuvius includes recent discoveries on view in the United States for the first time, as well as finds from excavations dating to the mid-18th century. The galleries unfold according to the floor plan of a typical villa, and the installation -- which includes decorative columns, wall borders, living plants and reproductions of mosaics -- works hard to maintain the illusion of classical architecture. The exhibition moves from artifacts reflecting ancient Romans' infatuation with Greek culture to the rediscovery of Pompeii by 18th-century Europeans, suggesting that every culture finds affirmation of its taste and sophistication in a previous golden age. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Rosenberg)
 Last Chance
 'PICASSO'S MARIE-THEReSE' In 2006 Steve Wynn, of Las Vegas casino fame, was set to sell ''The Dream,'' a Picasso he owned, for the record price of $139 million. Then one day, while showing the collection to friends, he put his elbow through the painting. The sale was off; the picture was patched. Now it's the centerpiece of a gallery show with several other paintings of Marie-Therese Walter, Picasso's lover, with most of them on loan from museums. Close inspection reveals no visible trace of the elbow malfunction in Mr. Wynn's picture, though it does reaffirm Picasso's penchant for producing kitsch. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 LARI PITTMAN This painter's consummate call-and-response fusion of form and subject matter, high and low, folk and commercial, frivolity and darkness is better than ever. Credit goes to the rich, off-key palette and a cacophony of techniques that range from Abstract Expressionist dash to greeting-card cuteness. Contemplating how these works are made, what they depict and how they construct meaning -- often through unexpected collusions of the decorative and the sexual -- has become an engrossing, ravishing contest of looking, reading and looking again. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 LISA SANDITZ: 'SOCK CITY' At once playful and grave, these juicy canvases escape with their lives from the populous genre of thick, colorful, cartoonish, faux-naive painting through a coherence and an ambition that are new to Ms. Sanditz's work. The gritty pictorial fantasies meld broad landscape vistas with architecture and other signs of the human urge to survive, multiply, pollute and spread chaos, which all might have been encouraged by a visit to China. Industry is the subject, as signaled by titles like ''Underwear City,'' ''The World's Largest Sock Market,'' ''Wooden Toy Town'' and ''Pearl Farm Underwater II,'' a bulging stalagmitic image that was mostly painted upside-down. CRG Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 229-2766, crggallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN BLACK CULTURE: 'AARON DOUGLAS: AFRICAN-AMERICAN MODERNIST' In 1920s New York a great flowering of black culture emerged that came to be known as the Harlem Renaissance. No visual artist expressed that movement's euphoric sense of possibility with greater verve than the subject of this valuable exhibition, the painter, illustrator and muralist Aaron Douglas. His major works feature semitransparent silhouettes of black people in heroic poses overlaid by concentric, circular bands of light. Rendered in muted, luminous colors, they project visionary romanticism in a suave, Art Deco-like style. 515 Malcolm X Boulevard, at 135th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-2200, nypl.org/research/sc; closes on Sunday. (Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); OLYMPICS (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (68%); RELIGION (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); NIGERIA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1154 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2639 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
HOLIDAY MARKETS
 Ah, the holidays. That warm and fuzzy time when you suffer from the post-traumatic stress that comes from spending all of your free time fighting (sometimes literally) to buy gifts you can't afford. This year should be different, and not just because the economy has thinned the crowds and left you with fewer people to battle. 
 New York's many holiday markets can go a long way toward restoring the spirit of the season. One of them, the outdoor market at Union Square, is a triumph for its decor alone. The vendors' red and white booths come with garlands, bows and open sky, placing them leagues above the nearby stores whose crowded counters are illuminated by fluorescent lighting. The market, which opened last week and closes on Christmas Eve, features ornaments, candles, jewelry and other items from more than 100 vendors. Urban Space Management, the company that has been operating the holiday market since it opened 13 years ago, evidently had such success at Union Square that it started running a second one at Columbus Circle five years ago. About 100 vendors will converge there on Wednesday, selling similar items through Dec. 24. (Union Square, at West 14th Street, unionsquarenyc.org; Columbus Circle, Central Park entrance, at West 59th Street, urbanspacenyc.com; 212-529-9262.) 
 Another offshoot gets under way in Brooklyn: the organizers of the Brooklyn Flea are complementing their Sunday outdoor market with an indoor holiday market at the Brooklyn Masonic Temple. The weekly market operates this Sunday through Dec. 21 and offers a D.J. instead of canned music (brownstoner.com/brooklynflea).
 Finally, shoppers seeking a winter wonderland will enjoy an excursion to the market at Bryant Park, above. In addition to the 120 booths -- whose clothing for pets and humans are detailed in the market's blog (shop.bryantpark.org) -- the park has a magnificent tree, a carousel and ice skating. If that doesn't remind you why you used to love this time of year, nothing will. (Through Dec. 28, West 42nd Street at Avenue of the Americas, 866-221-5157, thepondatbryantpark.com.) MONICA DRAKE 
 AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Thursday through Jan. 12, ''Christmas Trees of Old New York -- Roots of Tradition,'' an exhibition on the history of holiday decorations. (212) 777-1089; merchantshouse.org. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 5 p.m. $8; $5 for students and 65+; free for members and children under 12. 
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through Feb. 22, ''Paris/New York: Design Fashion Culture 1925-1940,'' an exhibition focusing on New York's cultural rivalry with Paris, as seen in photographs, drawings and artifacts from international expositions in Paris (in 1925) and New York (1939-40). Thursday at 6:30 p.m., a discussion about black American jazz musicians in Harlem after World War I, with the historian and author Jason Weiss and the filmmaker Charles Hobson, who will also show clips from his new movie, ''Harlem in Montmartre.'' Through Dec. 31, ''Catholics in New York, 1808-1946,'' an exhibition of 400 secular and religious items. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., a discussion with the historians Peter Quinn, author of ''Banished Children of Eve'' and ''Looking for Jimmy,'' and Terry Golway. The events on Tuesday and Thursday are each $9 ($5 for students and 62+) and require reservations: (212) 534-1672, Ext. 3395. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays from 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families.
 ROCK AND ROLL HALL OF FAME ANNEX NYC, 76 Mercer Street, SoHo. With artifacts including photographs, vintage amplifiers and Bruce Springsteen's 1957 Chevy. Through Monday, 10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Tuesday, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Beginning on Wednesday and running through Jan. 4, Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. (last admission at 8:30 p.m.); Sundays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. (last admission at 6:30 p.m.); shortened hours on Christmas and New Year's Eves; closed on Christmas Day. Timed tickets: $26; $24 for 65+ and military personnel; $22 for students; $18 for those 2 to 12. (646) 786-6680; rockannex.com.
 Gardens
 NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Through Jan. 11, the Holiday Train Show, featuring a display made of plant and other natural materials. Open on Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Hours vary during the holidays. Tram tours daily, every 20 minutes. (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. An all-garden pass is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $7 for children 2 to 12; and free for members and children under 2. Grounds admission only: $6 (Bronx residents, $5); $3 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12; and free for under 2 and for everyone all day on Wednesdays and from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking, $12.
 WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Saturday and Sunday, 1 to 4 p.m., a paper-making workshop using dried leaves and other natural materials. Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org. $6; $3 for students and 65+; $2 for children 6 and older; free for members and under 6; Tuesdays, free all day through December; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon, year round. On-site parking, $8; free off-site parking with free shuttle service to the garden.
 Events
 BRONX CULTURE TROLLEY will make stops at South Bronx cultural organizations offering free activities on Wednesday, 5:30 to 8:30 p.m., beginning at the Longwood Art Gallery at Hostos Community College, 450 Grand Concourse, at 149th Street, Mott Haven; a reception is at 5 p.m. Events include art exhibitions, poetry readings, storytelling and plays. Sponsored by the Bronx Council on the Arts. The trolley departs at 5:30, 6:30 and 7:30 p.m. Reservations: (718) 931-9500, Ext. 33, or trolley@bronxarts.org
 CHRISTMAS TREE LIGHTING CEREMONIES Tuesday, 7 to 8 p.m., in Bryant Park, 41st Street between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, with appearances by the pianist Michael Feinstein, the pop group Barenaked Ladies, the Canadian Brass and the Olympic ice skaters Jamie Sale and David Pelletier and others. Sponsored by the Canadian Tourism Commission; canada.travel/bryantpark. Also on Wednesday, 7 to 9 p.m., in Rockefeller Plaza, between West 48th and 51st Streets, and Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, with live and recorded music.
 FESTIVAL OF LIGHT AND SOUND opens on Tuesday at the World Financial Center, Winter Garden, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. A six-week series of free holiday entertainment, beginning with performances of ''The Nutcracker'' by the New York Theater Ballet, at 12:30 and 6:30 p.m., (212) 945-0505; worldfinancialcenter.com.
 'LOOKING BACK/GIVING BACK: ROWLAND SCHERMAN'S ICONIC IMAGES OF THE '60S,' at St. Peter's Chelsea, 346 West 20th Street. A retrospective and sale featuring photographs of Bob Dylan, Robert F. Kennedy and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.; part of the proceeds will benefit the food pantry at the church. Fridays, 6 to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m.; and Wednesdays, noon to 2 p.m. Through Dec. 6. (212) 929-2390, stpeterschelsea.com.
 RUSH-HOUR 'MESSIAH,' St. Agnes Roman Catholic Church, 143 East 43rd Street, Manhattan. Wednesday at 6:15 p.m., a one-hour performance of Part I of the Handel oratorio, with the Amor Artis Chamber Choir, with instrumentalists. (917) 757-9625. Suggested donation, $20.
 PALITZ GALLERY, Lubin House, Syracuse University, 11 East 61st Street, Manhattan. Through Jan. 4, ''Michelangelo: The Man and the Myth,'' an exhibition of his work, including paintings, architectural sketches, drawings and the original contract for the Pieta, dating to 1498. Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Ticket information: ticketweb.com. Timed admission: $12; $10 for students, 62+ and Syracuse alumni.
 TOURS OF THE CATHEDRAL CHURCH OF ST. JOHN THE DIVINE, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights. Beginning on Tuesday, tours of the newly restored and reopened areas of the cathedral, which was damaged by a fire in 2001. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.; $5; $4 for students and 65+. As part of a rededication service open to the public this Sunday at 11 a.m., there will be free tours every half-hour from 2 to 4 p.m.; thereafter, Sunday tours are at 2 p.m. Those wishing to attend the service should arrive at least one hour before. There are also vertical tours of the nave, Saturdays at noon and 2 p.m.; $15; $10 for students and 65+. Reservations: (212) 932-7347. 
 20TH WORLD AIDS DAY, on Monday, will be commemorated with events around the city. Sunday, 5 to 7:30 p.m., discussions with religious leaders, politicians and health professionals, and musical performances, will take place at the Riverside Church, Riverside Drive and 122nd Street, Morningside Heights. Monday, 12:10 a.m. to midnight, a ''Reading of the Names'' of those who have died of AIDS, will be held by Housing Works in City Hall Park, Broadway and Park Place in Lower Manhattan. Monday at 6 p.m., a candlelight procession will lead from Gay Men's Health Crisis, 119 West 24th Street, Chelsea, to Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, at Thompson Street, West Village, ending with an event at the church. Also on Monday at 6 p.m., there will be readings and performances at the Marble Collegiate Church, 1 West 29th Street, Manhattan. wadnyc.org. Events are free or donations are accepted. 
 WINTER'S EVE AT LINCOLN SQUARE, Monday, 5:30 to 9 p.m., along Broadway, from Columbus Circle to 68th Street. With music by the Bacon Brothers and others; children's activities; food tastings from area restaurants; and a lighting of the Christmas tree in Dante Park. Free admission; food samples, $1 to $4. A portion of the proceeds will benefit City Harvest; canned food will also be collected. Sponsored by the Lincoln Square Business Improvement District. (212) 581-7762; winterseve.org.
 Spoken Word
 AN EVENING WITH DENNIS HOPPER, Thursday at 7 p.m., at TheTimesCenter, 242 West 41st Street, Manhattan. A discussion with the actor and director, with clips from his films; the artist Julian Schnabel will introduce Mr. Hopper. Sponsored by the Museum of the Moving Image. $25; $15 for members. (718) 784-4520; movingimage.us.
 CHELSEA RECREATION CENTER, 430 West 25th Street. Thursday at 7 p.m., a discussion with Patricia M. Salom, author of ''The Staten Island Ferry: A History.'' Sponsored by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. Free, but reservations requested: (212) 408-0296; nyc.gov/parks.
 CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Monday at 6:30 p.m., a discussion with the Turkish playwright Ozen Yula. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., ''Forgotten Patriots: The Untold Story of American Prisoners During the Revolutionary War,'' a discussion with Edwin G. Burrows, a history professor at Brooklyn College; reservations required, (212) 817-8215. Wednesday, ''Islamophobia and American Muslim Comedy,'' a lecture by Mucahit Bilici, a sociology professor at John Jay College; (212) 817-7571. Thursday at 1 p.m., a performance by the Philharmonic Quintet of New York, members of the woodwind section of the New York Philharmonic; reservations required, (212) 817-8215. All are free. gc.cuny.edu.
 92ND STREET Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Discussions and readings. Wednesday at 8 p.m., the photographer Annie Leibovitz; $27. Thursday at 8 p.m., Elie Wiesel, the Nobel laureate; $40. (212) 415-5500; 92Y .org.
 POEMS & PINTS, Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., at Fraunces Tavern, 54 Pearl Street, Lower Manhattan. A poetry reading featuring Edward Field and Vijay Seshadri. (212) 219-9401, Ext. 114. Free.
 VOICES OF IRANIAN WOMEN, Friday at 7 p.m., at KGB Bar, 85 East Fourth Street, East Village. Readings by Nahid Rachlin, author of ''Persian Girls,'' and Ezzat Goushegir, a playwright. (212) 505-3360. Free.
 Walking Tours
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Friday at 1 p.m., ''Annual Post-Thanksgiving Multi-Ethnic Eating Tour,'' a historic and gastronomic tour of the Lower East Side, Chinatown and Little Italy that includes snacking, meeting on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets; reservations requested. (212) 439-1090. $20; $17 for 63+, students and New-York Historical Society members.
 HARLEM HERITAGE TOURS Friday at 1 p.m., ''Harlem Renaissance Walking Tour,'' with stops at noted cultural locations, meeting on the northwest corner of 135th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard, Hamilton Heights. Saturday at 1 p.m., ''General Harlem History Walking Tour,'' with stops at churches, jazz clubs and other noted cultural locations, meeting at Harlem Heritage Tourism and Cultural Center, 104 Malcolm X Boulevard, near 115th Street, Harlem. (212) 280-7888; harlemheritage.com. Each, $25.
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Mansions, Millions and Magnificence: The Millionaires' Mile,'' meeting at the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. (732) 270-5559. $15.
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., a tour highlighting Thanksgiving in the 18th and 19th centuries in Brooklyn, with stops in Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, meeting in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25.
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Saturday at 11 a.m., a tour of Union Square, meeting near the statue of George Washington, on the south side of the square, near 14th Street, between Broadway and University Place, East Village. (212) 935-3960, mas.org. $15; $12 for members.
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''A Victorian Christmas'' visits Gramercy Park, the Flatiron district and Chelsea. Saturday and Sunday at 5:15 p.m., ''Historic Greenwich Village Taverns at Christmas.'' Meeting places and reservations: (212) 465-3331. $16 each (drinks not included on the tavern tour).
 NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Saturday at 7 p.m., ''A Walk With the Ghosts and Poets of Greenwich Village,'' a walk with poetry by Edgar Allan Poe, Louisa May Alcott and Edna St. Vincent Millay, meeting in front of the Northern Dispensary, 165 Waverly Place, at Christopher Street, Greenwich Village. Reservations: (888) 699-2550; newyorktalksandwalks.com. $25 cash; $20 by credit card.
 NOSHWALKS Saturday, a tour of the Belmont section of the Bronx, with food sampling, with two possible Bronx meeting places: at 11:30 a.m. in front of the Loew's Paradise, 2413 Grand Concourse, at 187th Street, or at noon in front of Mt. Carmel Church, 619 East 187th Street. (212) 222-2243; noshwalks.com. $40; $35 for subscribers.
 SHOREWALKERS Saturday at 10 a.m., ''Walk Off the Turkey,'' an 11-to-12-mile walk along the Hudson River, from South Ferry to the Little Red Lighthouse, meeting at the entrance to the Staten Island Ferry Terminal at South Street; shorewalkers.org; (212) 330-7686.$10; free for members. 
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Crimes of Old New York,'' meeting at the National Museum of the American Indian, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan. (212) 969-8262. $10.
 UNION SQUARE: CROSSROADS OF NEW YORK Saturdays at 2 p.m., a tour focusing on the political history of the area, meeting by the statue of Lincoln near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership and Big Onion Walking Tours. (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org. Free.
 Recreation
 NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS Sunday at 11:30 a.m., the Pete McArdle Cross Country Classic, a 15K (9.3-mile) run in Van Cortlandt Park, beginning and ending at theFlats, Broadway and 252nd Street, the Bronx. (212) 860-4455; nyrr.org. Race-day fee only: $7; $5 for 14 and under.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (87%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%); ICE SKATING (50%); WINTER SPORTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (64%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (64%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1155 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE EVIDENCE GAP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2878 words

HEADLINE: A Big Blood Pressure Study, and Its Minimal Impact on Drug Use

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
The surprising news made headlines in December 2002. Generic pills for high blood pressure, which had been in use since the 1950s and cost only pennies a day, worked better than newer drugs that were up to 20 times as expensive. 
 The findings, from one of the biggest clinical trials ever organized by the federal government, promised to save the nation billions of dollars in treating the tens of millions of Americans with hypertension -- even if the conclusions did seem to threaten pharmaceutical giants like Pfizer that were making big money on blockbuster hypertension drugs.
 Six years later, though, the use of the inexpensive pills, called diuretics, is far smaller than some of the trial's organizers had hoped.
 ''It should have more than doubled,'' said Dr. Curt D. Furberg, a public health sciences professor at Wake Forest University who was the first chairman of the steering committee for the study, which was known by the acronym Allhat. ''The impact was disappointing.'' 
 The percentage of hypertension patients receiving a diuretic rose to around 40 percent in the year after the Allhat results were announced, up from 30 to 35 percent beforehand, according to some studies. But use of diuretics has since stayed at that plateau. And over all, use of newer hypertension drugs has grown faster than the use of diuretics since 2002, according to Medco Health Solutions, a pharmacy benefits manager. 
 The Allhat experience is worth remembering now, as some policy experts and government officials call for more such studies to directly compare drugs or other treatments, as a way to stem runaway medical costs and improve care. 
 The aftereffects of the study show how hard it is to change medical practice, even after a government-sanctioned trial costing $130 million produced what appeared to be solid evidence. 
 A confluence of factors blunted Allhat's impact. One was the simple difficulty of persuading doctors to change their habits. Another was scientific disagreement, as many academic medical experts criticized the trial's design and the government's interpretation of the results. 
 Moreover, pharmaceutical companies responded by heavily marketing their own expensive hypertension drugs and, in some cases, paying speakers to publicly interpret the Allhat results in ways that made their products look better. 
 ''The pharmaceutical industry ganged up and attacked, discredited the findings,'' Dr. Furberg said. He eventually resigned in frustration as chairman of the study's steering committee, the expert group that continues to oversee analysis of data from the trial. One member of that committee received more than $200,000 from Pfizer, largely in speaking fees, the year after the Allhat results were released. 
 There was another factor: medicine moves on. Even before Allhat was finished, and certainly since then, new drugs appeared. Others, meanwhile, became available as generics, reducing the cost advantage of the diuretics. And many doctors have shifted to using two or more drugs together, helped by pharmaceutical companies that offer combination pills containing two medicines. 
 So Allhat's main query -- which drug to use first -- became ''an outdated question that doesn't have huge relevance to the majority of people's clinical practices,'' said Dr. John M. Flack, the chairman of medicine at Wayne State University, who was not involved in the study and has consulted for some drug makers. 
 Dr. Sean Tunis, a former chief medical officer for Medicare, remains an advocate for comparative-effectiveness studies. But, as Allhat showed, ''they are hard to do, expensive to do and provoke a lot of political pushback,'' said Dr. Tunis, who now runs the nonprofit Center for Medical Technology Policy, which tries to arrange such trials. 
 ''There's a lot of magical thinking,'' he said, ''that it will all be science and won't be politics.'' 
 Expensive Pills 
 Promising better ways to treat high blood pressure, drug companies in the 1980s introduced a variety of medications, including ones known as calcium channel blockers and ACE inhibitors. 
 Although there was no real evidence the newer pills were better, diuretics fell to 27 percent of hypertension prescriptions in 1992, from 56 percent in 1982. Use of the more expensive pills added an estimated $3.1 billion to the nation's medical bill over that period. 
 So the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, part of the federal National Institutes of Health, decided to compare the various drugs' ability to prevent heart attacks, strokes and other cardiovascular problems. ''This was a big-bucks issue,'' said Dr. Jeffrey Cutler, the Heart, Lung and Blood Institute's project director for the study. 
 Allhat -- short for the Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial -- began enrolling patients with high blood pressure, age 55 and older, in 1994, with more than 42,000 people eventually participating. Patients were randomly assigned one of four drugs: a diuretic called chlorthalidone; an ACE inhibitor called lisinopril, which AstraZeneca sold as Zestril; a calcium channel blocker, amlodipine, sold by Pfizer as Norvasc; and an alpha blocker, doxazosin, which Pfizer sold as Cardura. 
 Cardura was added only after Pfizer, which had already agreed to contribute $20 million to the trial's costs, increased that to $40 million, Dr. Cutler said. 
 Early Trouble Signs
 Pfizer's bet on Cardura proved a big mistake. As the Allhat data came in, patients taking Cardura were nearly twice as likely as those receiving the diuretic to require hospitalization for heart failure, a condition in which the heart cannot pump blood adequately. Concerned, the Heart, Lung and Blood Institute announced in March 2000 that it had stopped the Cardura part of the trial. 
 What happened next provided the first signs that the Allhat evidence might not be universally embraced. 
 Rather than warn doctors that Cardura might not be suited for hypertension, Pfizer circulated a memo to its sales representatives suggesting scripted responses they could use to reassure doctors that Cardura was safe, according to documents released from a patients' lawsuit against the company. 
 And in an e-mail message unearthed in those same court documents, a Pfizer sales executive boasted to colleagues that company employees had diverted some European doctors attending an American cardiology conference from hearing a presentation on the Allhat results and Cardura. ''The good news,'' the message said, ''is that they were quite brilliant in sending their key physicians to sightsee rather than hear Curt Furberg slam Pfizer once again!'' 
 Pfizer declined to comment on the messages. 
 The Food and Drug Administration waited a year before convening a meeting of outside experts to discuss Cardura's safety. At that session, some of the experts sharply challenged the conclusions of the Allhat organizers. They argued that the heart failure cases might have been false readings and that an inadequate dose of Cardura had been used in the trial. 
 By the end of the daylong meeting, Dr. Robert J. Temple, a senior F.D.A. official, was clearly exasperated by the experts' varying interpretations of a supposedly definitive trial. 
 ''This is the largest and best attempt to compare outcomes we are ever going to see,'' he said. ''And people are extremely doubtful about whether it has shown anything at all.'' 
 The committee decided that there was no need to issue an urgent warning to doctors and patients about Cardura. 
 Cardura sales held up in 2000. But the next year, worldwide sales fell to $552 million, from $795 million. Prescriptions for all alpha blockers fell 22 percent from 1999 to 2002 after having risen before then, according to one study. 
 Pfizer's decision to stop promoting Cardura in late 2000, after the drug lost patent protection, was a factor in the decline. But Allhat clearly was, too. 
 Cost-Benefit Analysis
 The main Allhat results were announced in December 2002 at a news conference in Washington and published in The Journal of the American Medical Association. 
 In the primary target outcome of the trial -- the prevention of heart attacks -- the three remaining drugs were proved equal. But patients receiving the Norvasc calcium channel blocker from Pfizer had a 38 percent greater incidence of heart failure than those on the diuretic. And those receiving the ACE inhibitor from AstraZeneca had a 15 percent higher risk of strokes and a 19 percent higher risk of heart failure. 
 Moreover, the diuretic cost only about $25 a year, compared with $250 for an ACE inhibitor and $500 for a calcium channel blocker. So the diuretic was declared the winner. 
 But some hypertension experts accused the government of overstating the case for the diuretics, as a way to cut medical spending. 
 ''There was a feeling there was a political and economic agenda as much as a scientific agenda,'' said Dr. Michael Weber, a professor of medicine at the Health Science Center at Brooklyn, part of the State University of New York, who had been an investigator in the study but afterward became one of its leading critics. ''They pushed beyond what the data allowed them to say.''
 Critics said the rules of the trial had favored the diuretics. If the first drug did not adequately lower blood pressure -- as happened in more than 60 percent of cases -- a second drug could be added. But that second drug was usually a type that worked better with diuretics than with ACE inhibitors. 
 There were also more new cases of diabetes among the patients who took diuretics, although experts argued over how meaningful that finding was. 
 Adding fuel to the debate, an Australian study released two months after Allhat found an ACE inhibitor superior to a diuretic. The proper lesson to draw from Allhat, some critics contended, was that what matters most is how much blood pressure is lowered, not which drug is used to do it. For these and other reasons, European hypertension experts discounted Allhat. 
 Allhat's proponents discounted the Australian study as less authoritative, and they dismissed the other criticisms. 
 Still, the arguments ''muddied the waters,'' said Dr. Randall S. Stafford of Stanford, who studied the effect of Allhat on prescriptions. ''The message,'' he said, ''was no longer as clear to physicians.''
 Science Moves On
 By the time the Allhat results were released, lisinopril, the ACE inhibitor, had become generic. That meant AstraZeneca and Merck, which sold a version of the compound as Prinivil, had less interest in defending their drugs. 
 Not so Pfizer. Norvasc was the best-selling hypertension treatment in the world, with sales of $3.8 billion in 2002, and Pfizer's second-biggest drug behind the cholesterol medication Lipitor. 
 The company set out to accentuate the positive. In a news release after the Allhat results were announced, it said that Norvasc was found to be ''comparable to the diuretic in fatal coronary heart disease, heart attacks and stroke.'' And in a medical journal advertisement, it proclaimed ''ALL HATs off'' to its drug. 
 Neither the news release nor the ad, however, included the 38 percent greater risk of heart failure with Norvasc in the Allhat study. 
 Nor did Hank McKinnell, then Pfizer's chief executive, mention heart failure in lauding the results during his quarterly earnings conference call with analysts a few weeks after the Allhat report was released. ''Contrary to what you might have read in the press,'' Mr. McKinnell said, ''Allhat is extremely positive for Norvasc. It will be our job to explain that to the medical community.''
 Dr. Paul K. Whelton, president of Loyola University Health System and the current chairman of the Allhat steering committee, said that Pfizer and other drug companies ''took what was in their best interest and ran with those, and conveniently didn't mention other things.'' 
 Pfizer defends its actions. Dr. Michael Berelowitz, the head of Pfizer's global medical organization, said that in the trial's design, heart failure was merely one component of a broader measure of various cardiovascular problems. And in that broader measure, Dr. Berelowitz said, there was no difference between Norvasc and the diuretic. Also, he said, the label for Norvasc already contained a precaution about heart failure. 
 ''Further action regarding the heart failure finding was therefore not considered necessary,'' he said in a statement in response to questions. 
 Pfizer was not the only company promoting its drugs. The drug giant Novartis, for example, was spending heavily to market Diovan, a leader among a class of hypertension drugs called angiotensin receptor blockers, which were too new to have been included in Allhat. Diovan, which had more than $5 billion in sales last year, sells for $1.88 to $3.20 a pill on drugstore.com, compared with 8 to 31 cents for a diuretic. 
 No company, though, was spending money to promote generic diuretics. So the federal Heart, Lung and Blood Institute recruited Allhat investigators, provided them with training and sent them to proselytize fellow physicians. In all, 147 investigators gave nearly 1,700 talks and reached more than 18,000 doctors and other health care providers. 
 But it was a coffee-and-doughnuts operation compared with the sumptuous dinners that pharmaceutical companies used to market to doctors. Moreover, the steering committee's outreach program did not get under way until about three years after the results were published. 
 Dr. Stafford of Stanford said the outreach seemed to have had a slight effect on increasing the use of diuretics.
 The results of Pfizer's efforts are easier to quantify. Norvasc sales continued to grow to $4.9 billion in 2006, falling only after the drug lost patent protection in the United States in 2007.
 Tangles and Strife
 Tensions about industry influence reached even the study's own steering committee. Dr. Furberg, the chairman, bluntly accused some members of the committee of being agents of the industry. 
 One member, Dr. Richard H. Grimm Jr. of the University of Minnesota, had been receiving tens of thousands of dollars a year from Pfizer since at least 1997, according to reports that pharmaceutical companies file in that state. 
 In 2003, the year after the Allhat results were published, Dr. Grimm's payments from Pfizer soared to more than $200,000 -- an increase that The New York Times reported in 2007. 
 Dr. Grimm said in a recent interview that about half those fees in 2003 came from giving about 100 Pfizer-sponsored talks to doctors about Allhat. Dr. Grimm said he gave mainly the standard Allhat-sanctioned talk. But instead of saying diuretics were outright better than the other drugs, he said they were as good or better. 
 Meanwhile, Dr. Grimm had led an effort to remove Dr. Furberg from his position on the grounds that he had not been impartial.
 ''He had a vendetta against the calcium channel blockers,'' Dr. Grimm said. Dr. Furberg had been publicly questioning the safety of those drugs based on some studies he did in the 1990s. The effort to oust Dr. Furberg failed in 2001. But in August 2004, Dr. Furberg resigned as chairman, contending that there had not been enough effort to disseminate the Allhat message. 
 Dr. Whelton, who took over as chairman, said that the study's message was never compromised by industry ties on the steering committee. 
 ''Curt is a wonderful guy who is a crusader,'' said Dr. Whelton, who did not have industry ties and was not involved in the effort to unseat Dr. Furberg. ''He has certainly rubbed a lot of people, even good friends, the wrong way.'' 
 Changing Practice 
 Experts see several lessons to be learned from Allhat. 
 One is that ''all trials have flaws'' that leave the results open to interpretation, said Dr. Robert M. Califf, a cardiologist at Duke who served on the safety monitoring committee of Allhat. 
 Another is that providing doctors information is ''necessary, but not sufficient'' to urge them to change their practices, said Dr. Carolyn M. Clancy, director of the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, which itself conducts studies comparing different medical treatments.
 And while insurers can influence practice through reimbursement policies, they did not seem to have pushed strongly for diuretics after Allhat, in part because some of the other drugs had become generic. 
 Even the cost-conscious medical system at the Department of Veterans Affairs did not require diuretics, because too many doctors would probably have requested exceptions, said Dr. William C. Cushman, chief of preventive medicine at the department's medical center in Memphis. 
 Dr. Cushman, a member of the Allhat steering committee, said diuretic use in the system was still ''much lower'' than he thought it should be. 
 Dr. Clancy said that her agency was now mainly using insurance records to judge how treatments perform. While clinical trials are the gold standard, she said, they are costly and time-consuming. 
 And, she added, ''You might be answering a question that by the time you are done, no longer feels quite as relevant.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The pharmaceutical industry ganged up and attacked, discredited the findings.'' Dr. Curt D. Furberg: Public health sciences professor at Wake Forest University and former chairman of the steering committee of the Allhat study (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIANA BROUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
At first, many reviews were favorable for a big clinical trial on hypertension known as Allhat. But critics found shortcomings in the research and the results.
 ''There was a feeling there was a political and economic agenda as much as a scientific agenda.'' Dr. Michael Weber: Professor of medicine at the Health Science Center at Brooklyn and a former investigator in the Allhat study (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Hypertension Drugs, After Allhat: In 2002, results from the Allhat study were released. The study found that diuretics were a cheaper, safer and equally effective treatment for hypertension, compared with several other drugs then on the market. But after an upsurge in 2003, diuretics' share of prescriptions remained flat, and fell slightly in 2007. (Source: Randall S. Stafford, Stanford School of Medicine, based on data from the National Disease and Therapeutic Index, produced by IMS Health.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYPERTENSION (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (91%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (91%); PFEB (BRU) (91%); PFE (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (54%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1156 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; HOLIDAY GIFT GUIDE; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Michiko Kakutani's 10 Favorite Books of 2008

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
APPLES & ORANGESby Marie Brenner. In this deeply affecting memoir, a journalist uses the prism of her love and grief for her dead brother -- and her bewilderment over the twists and turns of his eccentric life -- to create a haunting portrait of him and their uncommon family. 
 AMERICA AND THE WORLD: CONVERSATIONS ON THE FUTURE OF AMERICAN FOREIGN POLICYby Zbigniew Brzezinski and Brent Scowcroft;moderated by David Ignatius. Two former national security advisers, a Democrat and a Republican, offer astute assessments of the daunting challenges -- terrorism, nuclear proliferation and a globalized economy, for starters -- that will face Barack Obama when he becomes president. 
 THE BIN LADENS: AN ARABIAN FAMILY IN THE AMERICAN CENTURYby Steve Coll. This riveting book not only provides a psychologically detailed portrait of Osama bin Laden, but in recounting the story of his extended family it also underscores the crucial role that his relatives and their relationship with the royal House of Saud played in shaping his thinking, his ambitions and his technical expertise.
 THE PLAGUE OF DOVESby Louise Erdrich. Arguably the author's most ambitious book, this novel examines the fallout that the vigilante hanging of several innocents will have on three generations of people who live on the margins of a North Dakota Ojibwe reservation.
 LINCOLN: THE BIOGRAPHY OF A WRITERby Fred Kaplan. This resonant biography looks at the role that Lincoln's avid reading of the Bible, Shakespeare and other works played in shaping his gifts as a writer, and how his literary skills in turn helped him articulate -- and promote -- his vision of a new America rising from the ashes of the Civil War. 
 A MERCYby Toni Morrison. Set in 17th-century America, this small jewel of a story is at once a kind of prelude to the author's masterwork, ''Beloved,'' and a variation on that earlier book's exploration of the personal costs of slavery.
 NETHERLANDby Joseph O'Neill. Filled with echoes of Fitzgerald's ''Great Gatsby,'' this stunning novel about a charismatic Trinidadian entrepreneur and a Dutch-born banker explores the American Dream as its promises and disappointments are experienced by a new generation of immigrants in a multicultural New York. 
 ALEX & ME: HOW A SCIENTIST AND A PARROT UNCOVERED A HIDDEN WORLD OF ANIMAL INTELLIGENCE -- AND FORMED A DEEP BOND IN THE PROCESSby Irene M. Pepperberg. A charming portrait of Alex the gray parrot -- whose linguistic and cognitive skills impressed the world, before his death in 2007 -- by the scientist who worked with him for three decades.
 LUSH LIFEby Richard Price. Offering the reader a wide-screen, 3-D Imax portrait of a corner of New York, this police procedural brilliantly transcends its genre thanks to its author's pitch-perfect dialogue, his journalistic eye for detail and his understanding of how people navigate the social and cultural mazes of a big city. 
 MILLENNIAL MAKEOVER: MYSPACE, YOUTUBE, AND THE FUTURE OF AMERICAN POLITICSby Morley Winograd and Michael D. Hais. In what turns out to have been a highly prescient book, the two authors predicted that 2008 would be a ''change'' election, informed by new technology and by the outlook of a new generation of millennial voters, who tend to be more inclusive, optimistic and tech-savvy than their elders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); LITERATURE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FAMILY (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TERRORISM (70%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1157 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Markets Are Up, Copying Gains on Wall St.

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY and BETTINA WASSENER. 
David Jolly reported from Paris and Bettina Wassener from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Thursday in Europe, heeding Wall Street's lead and a deep cut in interest rates in China.
 The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, rose 2.3 percent, while the FTSE 100-stock index in London gained almost 1.8 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris was up 2.5 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt rose 2.3 percent. 
 ''There is fresh risk-taking, but not enough to sustain a rally,'' said Adrian Pankiw, a strategist at Henderson Global Investors in London. ''Everyone's just waiting to close the books and getting ready for next year.'' 
 ''They're doing everything they can to avoid deflation,'' he said, referring to the trillions of dollars in financial bailouts and economic stimulus measures governments have announced in the last few months. ''We've seen from the case of Japan that the cost of deflation is much higher than the cost of the measures they're taking now. Japan is still paying for it.'' 
 In Zurich, UBS rose 4 percent on a forecast by Peter Kurer, the UBS chairman, who told shareholders on Thursday that 2009 would be a profitable year for the Swiss bank. 
 Trading in Woolworths was suspended in London after the 99-year-old retailer appointed administrators to seek a buyer for its more than 900 stores.
 The Toronto Stock Exchange's main index was only slightly higher on Thursday, but trading volume was light as markets in the United States were closed for the Thanksgiving holiday.
 On Wednesday, the S.& P. index rose 3.5 percent in New York. 
 Across Asia, commodity and shipping stocks had soared on Thursday after China's rate cut, the fourth in three months. 
 The Chinese central bank's move on Wednesday to cut its main interest rate by 1.08 percentage point gave Asian stock markets a lift. 
 Malcolm Wood, head of Asia Pacific Strategy at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, said that the move was an ''extraordinarily aggressive policy action in the face of extraordinarily bad news,'' but that this -- and a flurry of measures around the world in the past two months -- was grounds for optimism in the global effort to shore up the real economy. 
 The benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average in Tokyo was up 1.73 percent on Friday morning even though the government reported that industrial production dropped sharply in October. The S.& P./ASX 200 index in Sydney rose 3.4 percent. 
 Stock markets in India were closed Thursday after the terrorist attack on Wednesday in Mumbai left at least 119 people dead. Indian shares opened 1.4 percent lower on Friday at the restart of trading but regained ground as the morning progressed. India's benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rebounded and was up slightly in early morning trading. 
 While many analysts expected India's markets to decline when they reopened, trading on other exchanges has been somewhat resilient after previous attacks. After suburban train bombings killed 180 people in Mumbai in 2006, the Bombay stock index initially fell 1.8 percent but then rallied. India has had four other attacks this year.
 Mr. Pankiw, the analyst in London, said that with the exception of Germany, most European government bonds were trading near record lows. Part of the reason, he said, is that after years of what he called consumer ''dissaving,'' savings rates are beginning to rise even as net pay falls. 
 Nevertheless, economic data from the United States underlined the dismal global economic picture. Consumer spending dropped a full percentage point, the biggest decline since 2001, while durable goods orders fell 6.2 percent, and sales of new homes declined 5.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); EURO ZONE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); BAILOUTS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); RETAILERS (64%); TERRORISM (50%); THANKSGIVING (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); TMX GROUP LTD (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); X (TSX) (54%); TXQ (FRA) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); ZURICH (75%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) EUROPE (94%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1158 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus For Skeptics

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Over the past year, the federal government has poured money into the economy hundreds of billions of dollars at a time. It has also guaranteed investments, loans and deposits worth about $8 trillion. Barry Ritholtz, the author of ''Bailout Nation,'' points out that this project constitutes the largest infusion in American history. 
 If you add up just the funds that have already been committed, you get a figure, according to Jim Bianco of Bianco Research, that is larger in today's dollars than the costs of the Marshall Plan, the Louisiana Purchase, the New Deal, the Korean War, Vietnam and the S.&L. crisis combined. 
 Is all this money doing any good?
 The financial system seems to have stabilized, but bank lending is minimal, home prices keep falling, consumer spending is plummeting, and the economy continues to dive.
 It could be we just have to endure some fundamental adjustments. Housing prices have to reach a new level. Consumption has to settle on a new trajectory. Until those fundamental shifts are made, no federal sugar rush is going to restore economic health. 
 That's not a recipe for doing nothing. It's a recipe for skepticism. And it leads to some guiding principles for those designing the $500 billion stimulus plan the next administration seems set on: Don't just throw more money into the sugar rush. Spend money on projects that will enhance the long-term economic health of the country even without a crisis. Do what you would do anyway, just do it faster. 
 To understand how the short-term response might serve the country's long-term economic interest, I called up Michael Porter, the competitiveness guru at Harvard Business School. Porter wrote an outstanding overview of America's long-term economic challenges in the Oct. 30 issue of BusinessWeek. 
 Porter wrote that the U.S. economy has historically benefited from several great assets: an unparalleled environment for entrepreneurialism, a tremendous infrastructure for scientific research, the world's best universities, a strong commitment to competition and free markets, decentralized regional economies, and efficient capital markets. 
 But, Porter continued, these advantages are starting to erode. The U.S. has an inadequate rate of reinvestment in science and technology. America's confidence in free markets is waning. Lack of regulatory oversight has undermined capital markets. Universities have not sufficiently increased graduation rates. American workers do not have a credible safety net. Regulations and litigation have inflated the cost of business. Most important, there is no long-term economic strategy to organize responses to these problems. 
 I asked Porter how this short-term crisis might serve as an opportunity to address those long-term problems. First, he said, the Obama team will have to avoid a few temptations: Don't just try to throw out money as fast as possible to stimulate demand. Don't spread the spending around too thinly. Don't try to save jobs that are going to disappear anyway.
 Then he threw out a bunch of ideas that could be part of a stimulus package:
 Send federal money to the states, but make sure a lot of it goes to state universities. There's going to be increased demand for their services at the same time their budgets are cut. We can't weaken that link in the social mobility chain.
 Extend unemployment insurance, but also create vouchers and loans so workers can get the skills they need to move on.
 Extend the Cobra period another 12 months to head off a rise in the uninsured during the recession. 
 Adjust the capital gains rate to give people the incentive to become long-term investors. Right now there's a tension between the real economy, which is gradual, and the financial system, which is manic. Low rates shouldn't kick in until an investment is held three to five years.
 Accelerate depreciation on energy efficient goods and services. Increase tax credits for energy efficient buildings and appliances. 
 Porter's basic message was that President-elect Barack Obama should do nothing in the short term that doesn't serve a long-term goal.
 To which I would add just one idea: Create a network of social entrepreneurship investment banks. These regionally operated semi-public funds would invest in the best local community organizations, so they could bring their ideas to scale. 
 These funds, first proposed by the group America Forward, would supplement the safety net and employ college grads entering a miserable job market. They'd have a powerful psychological effect on a country that desperately wants to feel mobilized and united.
 This is a mental recession as well as an economic one. Solving it means getting more and more people involved in a fundamental rebirth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); WRITERS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); HOME PRICES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); GRADUATION RATES (63%); LITIGATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1159 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Not a Moment Too Soon,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Nov. 25):
 Mr. Herbert's encouragement for revamping America's infrastructure, including public transportation, strikes home in this peak travel season. Having recently moved from Britain, where the train system is frequent, affordable and comfortable, I was stopped dead in my tracks from using the train system to get home to Connecticut from Boston this Thanksgiving. 
 The only available rail option from Boston to Connecticut, a two-hour trip, costs more than $100 each way. This is beyond ridiculous, and both stops me from putting money into a mass transit system I'd like to support and limits my ability to choose the greenest transit option.
 Mr. Herbert's proposed infrastructure investment would jump-start an initiative to enable travelers to choose the wisest option -- and that would truly be change we can believe in. 
 Kate Bollinger Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 25, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Bob Herbert is right to call for strategic job creation programs to help energize the economy. But it is critical that we not only create jobs but also ensure that American workers are qualified to fill the resulting positions. Even now, as the unemployment rate soars, some industries -- like hospitals and manufacturers -- are desperately seeking workers who possess the specific technical skills they require. 
 Around the country, some work force programs are focusing on key industries and helping unemployed and underemployed workers acquire the skills to meet those industries' needs. Early research on this approach is promising. Program participants experienced a decrease in poverty, earned higher hourly wages and had more access to health care and paid sick leave.
 As policy makers work to create new jobs, they must also make strategic investments in America's work force. 
 Sheila Maguire Vice President Labor Market Initiatives New York, Nov. 25, 2008
 To the Editor:
 A comprehensive infrastructure strategy to stimulate the economy in these unprecedented times will require more than just the infrastructure bank Bob Herbert supports.
 The National Infrastructure Reinvestment Bank, a sound proposal put forward by President-elect Barack Obama, calls for $60 billion over 10 years. But even the president-elect acknowledges that the plan would be in addition to, not a replacement for, the traditional means of financing transportation projects through the gas tax.
 If we really want to get serious about addressing America's transportation infrastructure challenges, let's put all financing options on the table, including raising the federal gas tax, which hasn't been done in 15 years, creating an infrastructure bank and making greater use of public-private partnerships, tolls and congestion pricing.
 ''The ''pay as you go'' principle for building transportation projects has worked for more than 50 years, is fiscally responsible and is what the American public expects.
 T. Peter Ruane Washington, Nov. 26, 2008
 The writer is president of the American Road and Transportation Builders Association.
 To the Editor: 
 I fully agree with Bob Herbert and President-elect Barack Obama that we must fix the infrastructure. But big-muscle construction jobs seem male-oriented. So what about the women? What retooling for jobs is being considered for all those women who have lost their employment?
 Alison Goodwin Schiff New York, Nov. 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); LABOR FORCE (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); STRIKES (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); THANKSGIVING (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); FUEL TAX (60%); SICK LEAVE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1160 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Talk of the Town: Is Copper Up Today?

BYLINE: By JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF

DATELINE: MORENCI, Ariz. 

 BODY:
For this isolated mining town, which lives and dies by the price of copper, the last few years have been a roller coaster ride of steep climbs and sudden dips. Over all, however, the direction seemed to be up.
 Copper's dizzying climb began in 2003, when prices surged in response to booming demand from China and other fast-industrializing economies. The price spike spurred a major revival of Arizona's once-battered mining industry, and towns like Morenci, once devastated by layoffs, returned to flush times. 
 This past summer, even as the dire housing market contributed to widespread job losses and other economic woes in Arizona, copper prices reached a record, drawing thousands of new workers to the mines, where jobs were plentiful.
 But the arrival of the credit crisis this fall has stalled the mining boom. Reeling financial markets stripped copper of 60 percent of its value in only a few months, and expansion projects in Arizona, the nation's leading copper-producing state, are being postponed. 
 A sense of anxiety permeates Morenci, where almost everyone follows copper's daily rise and fall on financial cable shows and the Internet. ''Everybody is just wondering day-to-day what is going to happen,'' said Hector Ruedas, a Greenlee County supervisor and member of the Morenci school board who once worked in the mines.
 The speed and the depth of the price plunge has taken even longtime industry observers by surprise. ''The end has come just incredibly abruptly,'' said Nyal Niemuth, chief mining engineer for the Arizona Department of Mines and Mineral Resources. ''There weren't many of us predicting this collapse.'' 
 In late October, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, the copper industry's largest employer in Arizona, announced plans to lay off 600 mine workers in the state. Those layoffs came in addition to hundreds of independent contactors already let go by the company.
 ''Most of those employees were recently hired, many in anticipation of expansions, which have been deferred,'' Eric Kinneberg, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail message. 
 Demand for copper -- a key material in construction and manufacturing -- has long been a proxy for the overall health of the world economy. After a steep slide this autumn, prices stabilized in recent days. Another fall could signal that a more prolonged global recession is on the way.
 At today's price of about $1.67 a pound, copper remains marginally profitable to produce at many Arizona mines, giving some mining communities hope they may avoid broader layoffs.
 ''Right now we're taking a deep breath and hoping that everything's going to be O.K.,'' said Mayor Fernando Shipley, of Globe, Ariz., home of several mines and one of the country's last operating smelters.
 A collapse in copper production -- and a return to the mass layoffs and mine closings of the past -- would be a major reversal for Arizona's copper industry, which has only just recovered from one of its worst slumps in decades. 
 That era of relentless downsizing, driven by a sustained period of copper prices lower than at any point since the 1930s, reversed course sharply in late 2003, as prices surged in response to turbocharged demand from China. 
 The mining industry responded by increasing employment and initiating a wave of exploration and new development not seen in a generation. For long-depressed mining towns like Morenci, the thousands of added jobs meant new life. 
 The Morenci mine -- owned by Freeport-McMoRan, which acquired the mine in its merger with the Phelps Dodge Corporation last year -- doubled its work force over the last five years, to 4,000 employees. Production at the mine has risen 55 percent since 2003, to an average of one million tons of ore a day.
 Earlier this fall, despite the gathering economic storm, an almost frenetic energy pulsed through Morenci, a remote hamlet tucked in a valley in southeast Arizona, evidence of the intense effort that has been required to bolster the mine's production. 
 Business was brisk at the town's two diners and one supermarket. Hundreds of new homes, many still under construction, lined steep hillsides dotted with sagebrush and creosote. And day and night, mud-streaked pickups and tanker trucks loaded with sulfuric acid and diesel rumbled continuously along the two-lane highway that cuts through the center of town. 
 Despite the new construction, the town's limited housing stock -- all still company-owned -- has been overwhelmed, leading Freeport to haul in several dozen corrugated steel trailers to fill the gap. The trailers, assembled in an expansive gravel lot, form a makeshift community the miners call Man Camp.
 There, $20 a day secures a tiny room, as well as breakfast, lunch and dinner in a company mess hall. 
 ''Three hots and a cot,'' said Ed Morin, a miner who lived at the camp for almost a year before leaving earlier this month because of family obligations. ''It's not a bad deal.''
 Earning about $28 an hour, Mr. Morin saved more than $60,000 in less than a year by working hundreds of hours of overtime; his work ethic was motivated in part by the experiences of his father and grandfather, both miners who lived through copper crashes. 
 ''When copper's big, you hit it hard and save up for a rainy day, when they lay you off,'' Mr. Morin said. ''It's the mining game. My daddy played it for years.''
 With the sharp fall in copper prices, the atmosphere in Morenci has shifted sharply since this summer, Mr. Ruedas said.
 ''The mood is not good,'' he said. ''You go downtown and there aren't smiling faces anymore.''
 The surge in exploration and development extended across the West, from Alaska to New Mexico. But the epicenter of the boom was Arizona, the source of 62 percent of United States copper and about 5 percent of world supply.
 Alongside Chile, the state continues to rank as one of the two richest copper provinces in the world. It is dotted with rich, near-surface copper deposits, a remnant of long-dead volcanoes.
 Over the last five years, the world's largest mining interests -- BHP Billiton, Freeport-McMoRan, Rio Tinto and Sumitomo -- poured more than a billion dollars into reopening shuttered operations and expanding production at existing mines in the state.
 For the first time in more than 30 years, they also opened new mines, bringing a promise of prosperity to struggling rural areas, along with challenges.
 Among the first to be touched by the expansion was Safford, Ariz., a small agricultural community about 150 miles southeast of Phoenix, where Freeport-McMoRan recently opened a $550 million open-pit copper mine.
 When work on the mine began in July 2006, 1,500 construction workers flooded into the Safford Valley with money to burn, fueling a gold-rush mentality.
 ''We had been a sleepy little rural community for a long, long time and all of a sudden, when the rest of the world's economy was going in the tank, ours was just exploding,'' said James A. Palmer, chairman of the Graham County board of supervisors. ''There were lines to get into restaurants, there were help-wanted signs everywhere. If you had a pulse, you could get a job.''
 After decades of stagnant growth, the city's sales tax revenue doubled in three years. New roads are being paved, and the regional hospital is building a new cancer wing. Main Street, once full of empty storefronts with boarded-up windows, is nearing 95 percent occupancy. 
 Not all, however, were pleased by the arrival of the mine.
 Bud Smith, 84, is a cotton farmer whose grandfather settled in the Safford Valley well over a hundred yearsago, after traveling there from Utah in a covered wagon. He said he disliked the noise of the mine and the heavy traffic it has brought to the area.
 ''Now, you pull out on the road and it's just a solid string of cars, coming and going at shift change,'' said Mr. Smith, sipping a cup of coffee in El Coronado, a cafe on Main Street. ''I don't care for it, but that's progress, I guess.''
 Mixed emotions can also be found in Miami, Ariz., where the boom brought back mining jobs many thought were lost for good. According to Mayor Chuy Canizales, the area's mines recently announced a hiring freeze and suspended major new mining projects indefinitely. Layoffs may soon follow.
 ''We're just barely hanging on,'' said Mr. Canizales, a 35-year employee of Freeport-McMoRan. ''But we've survived worse in the past, and I think we'll pull through.''
 For old-timers, the price swings of recent months evoke searing memories of strikes and layoffs, buyouts and bankruptcies -- and the hard times that invariably follow a copper crash.
 They are also a reminder that the towns and the mines share a common destiny.
 ''It goes up and down, the copper industry,'' said Richard Perez, 68, a retired miner who runs a diner in town. ''Being with the copper mines is like being with a wife for 25 years. You argue and you fight sometimes, but when it's over and done with, you're happy to have them around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Copper's soaring prices since 2003 renewed interest in mines like the one near Morenci, Ariz. But in just a few months, copper fell 60 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
A resurgence at copper mines brought new life to towns like Morenci. Its latest boom was a big one, as copper prices set a record.
 Mark Lehnen, left, and Ed Morin in the mess hall at ''Man Camp,'' where $20 a day buys miners a tiny room and three meals. BHP Billiton reopened its Pinto Valley mine late last year to ride the boom. Since then, a rival mining company has shed workers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) MAP: Arizona is dotted with copper deposits, one near Morenci. Map details Morenci, Arizona, 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); COPPER MARKETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); COPPER MINING (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (65%)

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (65%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (65%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (65%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (65%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (65%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (65%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (65%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (65%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (65%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (65%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (65%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1161 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: About Latin America

 BODY:
The Bush administration is leaving behind so much turmoil and resentment around the world that President-elect Barack Obama might be tempted to put off dealing with the nation's extremely sour relations with Latin America. 
 That would be shortsighted. There is a unique opportunity to improve ties with a region that shares key interests and values with the United States. And given how bad relations are right now, it will not take much more than good sense and sensitivity to make progress. 
 For starters, the Obama administration could gain a lot of good will by supporting more aid, mostly from the International Monetary Fund, for Latin American countries sideswiped by the financial meltdown. 
 More than anything, Latin American leaders want to know that Washington is ready to talk seriously -- rather than just lecture -- on important topics, including drug trafficking, energy policy, economic integration and immigration. 
 With Fidel Castro nearly gone, Washington should be testing the intentions of the new Cuban leadership. We believe lifting the economic embargo is the best way to do that. It has given Mr. Castro and his cronies a never-ending excuse for their failures and misdeeds. 
 During the campaign, Mr. Obama unfortunately agreed with the incorrect (but politically convenient) proposition that the embargo gives the United States leverage. Fortunately, he also said he would start the process of re-engaging Havana -- and opening Cuba to the winds of change -- by lifting restrictions on travel and remittances to the island. He should do so quickly. 
 Declining oil prices, and the declining stature of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, will also make Mr. Obama's task easier. 
 We have no patience for Mr. Chavez's corrupt and autocratic ways. But the Bush administration did enormous damage to American credibility throughout much of the region when it blessed what turned out to be a failed coup against Mr. Chavez. 
 The Venezuelan leader has played anti-American sentiments for all they are worth. And he has spent a chunk of his country's abundant oil riches to prop up the Castro brothers and finance a wider anti-American bloc. He no longer has as much cash to spread around. And his own citizens have lost patience with his failed revolution. 
 Mr. Chavez's decline also poses some new challenges. The finances of Cuba as well as Argentina, Nicaragua or Honduras could deteriorate rapidly if Venezuela decides to cut back its deliveries of cheap oil and billions in aid. Washington must be prepared to help, either with its own aid or by rallying support from international lenders. 
 There will be difficult pills to swallow. For the sake of American business and American credibility, Congress must pass the trade agreement with Colombia. 
 Other steps should come easier. Washington should open a regional dialogue about the illegal drug trade and prove that it can do its share by clamping down on the southward flow of weapons and reducing demand for drugs at home. On energy, eliminating the tariff on ethanol imports would help reduce dependence on fossil fuels and greatly improve relations with Brazil.
 This country must move forward with immigration reform. It must also begin regular discussions on migration issues with the countries sending those migrants. That would do much to improve relations and find solutions to key problems like human rights abuses against immigrants.
 If there is still a question about the need for a new policy for the region, consider these facts: Latin America provides a third of the nation's oil imports, most of its immigrants and virtually all of its cocaine. And, oh yes, it's right next door. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); IMMIGRATION (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); COUPS (62%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); CUBA (92%); HONDURAS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1162 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 862 words

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
BUDGET CUTS PROPOSED IN CANADA 
 Canada's finance minister, Jim Flaherty, presented an economic plan on Thursday that emphasizes cuts in government spending intended to maintain the country's long run of budget surpluses. While acknowledging that Canada ''may be in a technical recession,'' Mr. Flaherty said he planned to sell 2.3 billion Canadian dollars in government assets. The plan would also reduce spending by 2 billion Canadian dollars, including setting limits on government workers' salary increases linked to a ban on strikes. Canada's economic problems are not as severe as many other nations' woes, but opposition parties argued that Mr. Flaherty risked accelerating the decline by retrenching government spending rather than stimulating the economy. IAN AUSTEN 
 ARCELORMITTAL WILL REDUCE WORK FORCE 
 ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steel maker, unveiled plans on Thursday to cut up to 9,000 more jobs, or 3 percent of its work force, a move that would save $1 billion a year. It warned on Tuesday that it might lay off 16 percent of its work force in the United States, or around 2,400 people, as it cut steel output there by 40 percent. ArcelorMittal, which has more than 326,000 employees in more than 60 countries, has called a meeting of the European works council in Luxembourg on Thursday to present the plans. The company's shares hit a four-year low a week ago. A rapid slowdown in sales by carmakers, the Chinese economy cooling to single-digit growth and tougher times for Russia all bode ill for the sector. The company, based in Luxembourg, announced this month that it would cut worldwide production by 35 percent. (REUTERS) 
 JAPAN'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE FALLS TO 3.7%
 Japan's unemployment rate unexpectedly fell in October as people stopped looking for work, and household spending fell 3.8 percent from a year earlier. The jobless rate fell to 3.7 percent last month, from 4 percent in September, the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo. The median estimate of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for unemployment to rise to 4.2 percent. ''The impact of the global financial crisis is starting to threaten job security among Japanese workers,'' said Masamichi Adachi, a senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo. ''There is more to come -- we expect further deterioration in unemployment and consumer spending.'' The labor force shrank by 150,000 as people stopped looking for jobs. Companies also hired 70,000, the report showed. Wages barely rose in September, edging 0.2 percent higher. That contributed to a drop in consumer sentiment to the lowest level on record. Separately Japan's Trade Ministry said on Friday that retail sales fell 0.6 percent from a year earlier, after dropping 0.3 percent in September. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 MERGER TALKS FOR AUSTRALIAN WHEAT EXPORTER
 AWB, Australia's largest wheat exporter, said it was in talks with ABB Grain for a possible merger. ''The transaction will only progress if appropriate terms can be agreed and due diligence is completed to each party's satisfaction,'' AWB, based in Melbourne, said in a statement. Combining ABB Grain, Australia's largest barley exporter, with AWB would create a combined company with a market value of $2.2 billion Australian dollars ($1.4 billion). (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 FIRM SHUTS HEDGE FUND AFTER LOSSES
 BlueBay Asset Management, a publicly traded investment firm based in London, said it would shut down its Emerging Market Total Return fund. The $1.2 billion hedge fund, which accounts for 6 percent of assets under management, had dropped 53 percent this year, BlueBay said in a statement on Thursday. Its fund manager, Simon Treacher, resigned ''following a breach of internal valuation policy,'' it said. He couldn't immediately be reached for comment. Satellite Asset Management and Artemis Asset Management joined the list this week of more than 75 hedge funds that have liquidated or restricted investor redemptions since the beginning of the year. The Emerging Market Total Return fund was hurt by ''liquidity conditions'' and was no longer viable on its own, BlueBay said. Hedge funds are private, largely unregulated pools of capital whose managers can buy or sell any assets and participate substantially in profits from money invested. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Executives
 MORGAN STANLEY NAMES ASIA CHIEF
 Morgan Stanley has named Kate Richdale as chief executive for Southeast Asia and head of investment banking in the region, the company said in a news release on Thursday. Ms. Richdale will be relocated to Singapore from Hong Kong, where she has been head of the Asia Pacific general industries group since 2006. She has been a managing director since 2003, it said. The appointment comes after the departure of Rohit Sipahimalani, former head of Southeast Asia investment banking, last month. Ronald Ong was appointed as chairman in the region, replacing Greg Terry, who will become senior adviser to the firm, the release said. Ms. Richdale was previously based in Singapore from 2001 to 2006, and had served as head of capital markets for Southeast Asia and the region's head of investment banking. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (92%); BUDGETS (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (75%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); MERGERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); RETAIL SALES (64%)

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (93%); MT (PAR) (93%); MT (NYSE) (93%); MT (AMS) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (93%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: JIM FLAHERTY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) CANADA (96%); JAPAN (94%); LUXEMBOURG (90%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1163 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Russian Missile Plan Gives a New European Trade Hub an Old Identity Crisis

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: KALININGRAD, Russia 

 BODY:
This is what passes for humor in Kaliningrad these days: Iskander missile tourism. Dipping deep into his reservoir of black humor, Vladimir N. Abramov tries out this sales pitch for his region, a cold war garrison turned European trade hub that may, once again, become a staging ground for missiles pointed west. 
 ''Attracting tourists to see an Iskander is a creative idea,'' said Mr. Abramov, a political scientist. ''Especially for the Poles. When it is flying toward them, they may not be able to see it. Come to Kaliningrad! Pose next to the missile which is going to kill you.'' 
 Somewhere behind the joke is a real question about the future of Kaliningrad. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Moscow has devised a series of plans for this old military outpost, wedged on the Baltic Sea between Lithuania and Poland. 
 Former President Boris N. Yeltsin saw it as the Russian Hong Kong, a free trade zone to entice foreign investors. Mr. Yeltsin's successor, Vladimir V. Putin, drew it closer to Moscow, planning a nuclear power plant that would export energy to Europe. As oil and gas wealth poured into Russia, more ideas emerged: Las Vegas-style gambling, for instance, and a constellation of luxury resorts.
 The most recent idea arrived early this month, when President Dmitri A. Medvedev said Russia would stage short-range Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad if the United States proceeded with missile defense facilities in the Czech Republic and Poland. 
 The proposal is seen by many as rhetorical -- a bargaining chip to use with a new American president. But if carried out, it would mark Kaliningrad's first rearming against the West since the end of the Soviet Union, and another twist in an old identity crisis: Is it Russia's window, open to Europe, or a turret for firing on it?
 ''The phrase 'military stronghold' was gradually forgotten here,'' said Vadim Smirnov, a columnist for Kaliningradskaya Pravda, the region's largest newspaper. ''Experience shows that it was premature.'' 
 The streetscape of Kaliningrad testifies to its peculiar status. Around the corner from generic Soviet monuments are cobblestone streets and red-roofed houses built before World War II, when it was a German city called Konigsberg. Free trade policy has transformed this city into a huge duty free shop, crammed with fashionable restaurants and small businesses selling Italian handbags, French bath soaps, Polish light fixtures. 
 No less transformed are its people, who number around one million. Kaliningraders live more than 200 miles from the Russian border; they bring their grandchildren to Polish water parks and stock up at Ikea in Gdansk. Younger ones ski in Austria or shuttle goods to Central Europe. There is a deep vein of Russian patriotism here, as you would expect from a military town. But the pull of Europe is strong. 
 ''We're closer to Berlin than Moscow,'' said Alexei Petrov, 39, a gym teacher who is driving a taxi between jobs.
 Those links with Europe -- culturally warm and economically central -- have colored Kaliningraders' reaction to Mr. Medvedev's announcement. Lyudmila M. Anokha, the director of the Kaliningrad Zoo, found herself in an awkward position last month when she held a contest to name a new baby giraffe. One of the most popular suggestions was ''Iskander,'' but Ms. Anokha immediately saw the problem.
 ''The giraffe was delivered to us by the Berlin Zoo,'' she said. ''The giraffe came from the West. The Iskanders would be pointed toward the West. We at the zoo are beyond politics.'' 
 The Iskander deployment is popular among Russians as a whole, who overwhelmingly see the American missile defense plan as a direct threat on their borders. A poll released last week by Moscow's Public Opinion Foundation showed that 62 percent of respondents approved of the Iskander deployment if the missile defense facilities are built. Only 13 percent of them criticized the plans, with 4 percent dismissing them as ''intimidation.''
 The same stalwart support can be found in Kaliningrad. In 2004, when Poland and Lithuania joined the European Union, new visa and customs regulations stoked fears that Kaliningraders were being cut off behind a ''blue curtain,'' after the color of the union flag. Since then, those regulations have helped to deprive them of much of the freedom of movement that they enjoyed during the Yeltsin years. They already feel encircled, and the proposed missile defense site in Poland -- an American base supplied with 10 interceptor missiles -- stokes old passions. 
 ''When someone threatens your country, every person must respond,'' said Ms. Anokha, the zoo director. ''We are not the ones unearthing the ax of war.'' 
 In public, there has been little debate about the Iskander plan. For one thing, people here are accustomed to living near an arsenal -- including nuclear-tipped missiles that were staged here during the cold war. The bigger threat, for many, was their removal: Since the 1980s, the number of troops here has been reduced to fewer than 20,000, from 320,000, according to the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. Rumors that the Baltic Fleet might be relocated met with ''horror'' in Kaliningrad, according to Mr. Abramov, the political scientist. 
 ''The presence of troops was seen as a guarantee that Russia would not abandon us,'' he said. ''There are hotheads in Poland and Lithuania who would like to incorporate us. The Baltic Fleet calms them down.'' 
 In private, however, many Kaliningraders say they are nervous about how the Iskander plan would affect them. The region's economy is dependent on foreign tourists and foreign investment, to say nothing of the freedom to travel in Europe. Solomon I. Ginzburg, a deputy in Kaliningrad's regional Parliament, said a poll of 1,800 of his constituents showed that 37 percent of them were ''categorically against'' the deployment of Iskanders, whereas only 20 percent supported it. 
 The most visible objections have come from Vitautas V. Lopata, an opposition deputy in the Parliament. Mr. Lopata, a wealthy businessman, publishes his own newspaper because he cannot gain coverage in the Kaliningrad press, ''even if I pay for it,'' he said.
 In his most recent issue, he wrote that with Mr. Medvedev's announcement, ''we have, with our own hands, pushed Europe away from Russia,'' ignoring Kaliningrad's economic dependence on its neighbors. He said many citizens agreed with him, but kept their comments private, because ''where can they express this opinion?'' 
 ''If you deploy missile forces, investment ends, tourism ends,'' he said in an interview. ''You don't go visit your neighbor if he's drunk and he's holding a loaded gun.'' 
 As people rushed past rows of shops, jewel-bright in a gathering snowstorm, most confessed that the missile deployment was not on their minds. Some had not even heard of it. But here and there was passionate opposition -- from a grandmother selling five beets on a sidewalk, who said she would join street protests against the deployment, or from the taxi driver, Mr. Pavlov, who exclaimed with frustration, ''Nobody is threatening anyone here.'' 
 Natalya Gorobets, 41, who works for a tour agency, seemed to draw herself up with pride at the mention of the Iskanders, which she said ''demonstrate that Russia is capable of giving an answer'' to the United States. At the next desk, Viktoria Nishchenko, 28, was not so sure: She was thinking about travel.
 ''I justdon't want to go to a consulate and be told, 'Oh, you're from Kaliningrad. Stay there with your weapons,' '' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Dmitri A. Medvedev said he would deploy Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad if the U.S. built missile sites in Europe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVGENY STETSKO/VEDOMOSTI, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) MAP: Kaliningrad has felt a pull between Europe and Moscow. Map details area of KALININGRAD. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); WATER PARKS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); SKIING (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); WRITERS (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (52%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) EUROPE (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); POLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); LITHUANIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); GERMANY (73%); AUSTRIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1164 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico Governor Promises Changes

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R. 

 BODY:
Republicans in Washington cheered when Luis G. Fortuno, one of their own, was elected governor of Puerto Rico on Nov. 4. But here on the island, where American affiliations are often worn and dropped like accessories, he now describes his victory as Obamaesque. 
 Mr. Fortuno emphasized in an interview that ''cambio,'' or ''change,'' had been his slogan since 2006. And like President-elect Barack Obama, Mr. Fortuno said the economy would be Job 1 for his administration, managed with a youthful nonpartisan approach. 
 ''My message all along was that we had to pull together, that we had lost hope, our ability to dream,'' said Mr. Fortuno, 48, a lawyer whose thick dark hair has only a few lines of gray. ''It is the only way to go.'' 
 And yet, as a test case for the Obama ethos, Puerto Rico is especially tough. In terms of both economic decline and distrust in government, the island's problems are more entrenched, political analysts say, and will be harder to reverse. 
 The recession now emerging in places like Florida and Ohio has been a fact of life in Puerto Rico for three years. Unemployment has climbed to nearly 12 percent. Taxes have gone up, purchasing power has declined, and the island's roughly four million residents are unlikely to be patient with their new leader. 
 ''His honeymoon is going to be particularly short, not because of anything he has done or what he represents,'' said Miguel Soto-Class, executive director of the Center for a New Economy, an independent research organization. ''It's just that people are very concerned about what is going on.'' 
 The structural challenges are immense. Government here plays an outsize role, employing 20 percent to 30 percent of workers on the island, and it is on the verge of bankruptcy. The current administration said this week that it would end the year with a $2 billion budget deficit. One official suggested it was struggling to make payroll, and some institutions -- like the Center for Puerto Rican Studies -- already report that they have not received government money they are owed. 
 Governor-elect Fortuno, who spent the last four years as the island's nonvoting representative in Congress, described the problem as ''a local self-inflicted recession.'' To turn things around, he said he planned to ''streamline government processes and bring under control government expenses to be able to lower taxes.'' 
 Specifically, he said he would institute a hiring freeze that would, with attrition, lead to a 3 percent to 5 percent cut in government staffing annually and save $1.5 billion in four years. He has also turned to the private sector for cabinet-level posts, and called on wealthy business owners to invest more on the island. 
 It is unclear whether this will be enough. The mainland's stalling economy will most likely hinder investment, and economists say that cutting government, while necessary, may hurt as much as it helps. ''You can't get rid of people on the government payroll because you're just creating a problem somewhere else,'' Mr. Soto-Class said. ''There is no place else for them to go.''
 Mr. Fortuno also runs the risk of being considered out of touch. A dapper dresser partial to cufflinks, he is a member of the island's wealthy elite -- a graduate of a private Roman Catholic high school, Georgetown University and the University of Virginia School of Law. His appointment of business executives to government positions already has some independent analysts concerned that the island's middle-class will feel left out. 
 And regardless of his policies, he comes into office facing a deficit of public trust. 
 Corruption scandals have undermined the Puerto Rican government since the 1990s, and the latest scandal is still playing out. The current governor, Anibal Acevedo Vila, is scheduled to stand trial in February on charges of using campaign money to pay for personal expenses, including family trips and $57,000 worth of high-end clothing. 
 Many Puerto Ricans are simply fed up. Voices rise to a shout when politicians are named, and the corrosiveness of a government that is weak, broken and accused of stealing can be seen in a wider disrespect for law and order. San Juan is now a city of rising crime, where drivers ignore red lights and residents make multiple copies of every government bill or notice because they expect the bureaucracy to mishandle it. 
 Juan Manuel Garcia Passalacqua, a political commentator here, said the governor-elect faced almost impossible odds. ''The rising expectations will very soon become rising frustrations,'' he said. ''That is the real danger.''
 Mr. Garcia added that Puerto Rico's dominant battle lines over the island's relationship to the United States also remained in place, rife for conflict. Mr. Fortuno, a member of the New Progressive Party -- which carries more meaning here than his identification as a Republican -- has said he would push for statehood even as the Popular Democratic Party of his predecessor called this week for maintaining the island's commonwealth status.
 But despite the daunting environment, Mr. Garcia said Mr. Fortuno's victory could also be cause for an espresso-sized measure of optimism. He has known the governor-elect since he was 7 years old (his father was Mr. Garcia's dentist). He described him as ''legit,'' with a sincerely less partisan, more pragmatic approach that takes its cues from the generational change embodied by Mr. Obama. 
 Mr. Fortuno's victory by about 220,000 votes, one of the widest margins in decades, suggested that ''even if trust in government in Puerto Rico has disappeared, hope in government has returned,'' Mr. Garcia said. 
 And perhaps, others said, the economic freefall would become a unifying force that heals old divisions and moves the island toward overdue reforms.
 ''A crisis is an awful thing to waste,'' Mr. Soto-Class said. ''Maybe it will lessen the polarization of status and ideology and bring us together.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters with Gov.-elect Luis G. Fortuno on Nov. 4 after his victory speech in San Juan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMON ZAYA/EL NUEVO DIA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); POLITICS (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1165 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: The Democratic Hand Waiting To Grasp the Senate's Gavel

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Senator Malcolm A. Smith sat speechless in a Midtown hotel suite, his eyes glued to Channel 7, a cellphone stuck to one ear. Before his eyes flashed the news that Barack Obama would be president. Over the phone came word that Democrats in the State Senate, led by Mr. Smith, had won enough seats to control the chamber for the first time in more than 40 years. 
 As those around him began to whoop and cry, Mr. Smith, 52, thought about the opportunity at hand -- and the burden. He turned to the Rev. Floyd H. Flake, his pastor and longtime mentor in Queens politics.
 ''Reverend,'' Mr. Smith said, ''I need a prayer.'' 
 He may need more than one. More than three weeks after Election Day, Mr. Smith still has not cobbled together enough votes to ascend to majority leader and allow Democrats to formally take over the running of the Senate. That has left the chamber virtually in limbo, fueling rumors of a coup against Mr. Smith and frustrating Democratic senators waiting to assume power after spending their entire careers in the political wilderness. 
 Many friends and advisers say Mr. Smith has become inexplicably overconfident, even nonchalant, in the face of the uncertainty pervading the chamber. Some wonder whether he truly wants the Senate's top job at all.
 ''He is organized and disciplined in a way that some politicians aren't, but it doesn't seem like he's taking this seriously enough,'' said one Democratic official who is close to Mr. Smith and asked to remain anonymous so as to speak frankly about the senator's prospects. ''Malcolm's been dragged along in many places in his political career. I'm not quite sure he has the stomach at this moment.''
 In a recent interview, Mr. Smith shrugged off suggestions that he was not prepared to lead the Democrats into power. His experience as minority leader and as a real estate developer, Mr. Smith said, had prepared him to manage what would be a difficult and historic shift to Democratic rule. 
 Democrats won 32 seats in the election, but the Republicans, who appear to have won 30, have yet to concede defeat. In between negotiating the state budget and recruiting staff members, Mr. Smith is also busy trying to bring back into the fold three Democratic senators who have threatened to back a Republican for majority leader.
 ''It's all about knowing people, and knowing what their needs are, what drives them,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Politics is business. Business is politics.''
 Mr. Smith has spent much of his life bouncing between those two worlds. He learned Queens clubhouse politics from his mother, a Democratic activist, and worked after college as an aide to a councilman, Archie Spigner. In 1983, he took a junior economic development post under Mayor Edward I. Koch and volunteered as president of a nonprofit group that redeveloped run-down housing.
 Mr. Smith's life was changed profoundly when he went to work in 1986 for Mr. Flake, who at the time served in Congress, and whose Allen A.M.E. Cathedral has been a major force for economic and social renewal in the prosperous black neighborhoods of southeast Queens. Mr. Flake's signature gospel, which blends economic self-empowerment and political ecumenism, opened up a fresh sense of possibility for Mr. Smith, friends recalled.
 ''I don't think before then that he saw there was a way to involve your whole self -- your business self, your community self, your family self and your personal self all in one way -- to harness all your energy into one thing and use that as a springboard,'' said Jack P. Jackson, a lawyer and college friend. ''It was life-altering for him.''
 Though energetic and determined, Mr. Smith seems to have struggled sometimes to put those pieces together. While still running Mr. Flake's Congressional district office, he lost two campaigns in two years, a bid in 1990 for State Senate and one in 1991 for City Council. After the second loss, he approached Mr. Flake.
 ''He came to me and said, 'Look, I appreciate the opportunity to run the district office. But like you, I want to get out and do some development so that I can expand some areas of my capability. I don't want to stay in a political arena all of my life,' '' Mr. Flake said. ''It was a step of faith.''
 Within the year, Mr. Smith, who was raised as a Catholic and attended Catholic schools, converted and joined Allen A.M.E. (He remains a devoted churchgoer today, rising for Mr. Flake's 6:30 a.m. service most Sundays and sometimes opening Senate staff meetings with a prayer.) In 1991, he started Smith Development Corporation, a real estate and construction business, and built several dozen moderately priced homes in the Rockaways that helped begin a revival of the area.
 But by the end of the decade, Smith Development was bankrupt. Mr. Smith was sued by a court-appointed trustee who alleged that he had diverted money owed to his creditors into subsidiaries under his control. Mr. Smith now says that the subsidiaries were merely a bookkeeping device to allow Smith Development to complete a project at Kennedy Airport, and that he had run out of money because the prime contractor on the project had missed payments to Smith Development. The suit was settled for about $12,000, spread among nearly 50 creditors.
 ''Everything I did in business wasn't successful,'' said Mr. Smith, who is shutting down his current business, a title insurance company. ''But you learn from things when you go through your challenges. You don't learn from doing everything right.''
 As Mr. Smith's business foundered, however, his political career took flight. When a Queens state senator left office in 2000, Mr. Smith's allies -- including Mr. Flake and his successor in Congress, Gregory W. Meeks -- moved quickly to sew the seat up for him. By then well established in the community, Mr. Smith won overwhelmingly in a special election, running simultaneously on the Democratic, Republican, Conservative and Working Families ballot lines, a rare feat.
 ''Everybody knew of his dedication and desire, and everyone made sure we supported him and that nobody else would want to jump out there,'' Mr. Meeks said.
 In the Senate, Mr. Smith positioned himself as a pragmatic, business-friendly Democrat with little attachment to conservative or liberal orthodoxy. He coined his own motto, ''Relationships yield results,'' and lived by it: Though less obviously hungry for advancement than some of his colleagues, he carefully cultivated relationships, especially with David A. Paterson, then the deputy minority leader. 
 At the end of his first term, Mr. Smith joined a coup led by Mr. Paterson against the Democratic leader at the time, Martin E. Connor. As the nervous insurgents gathered in Mr. Paterson's Harlem office and tried to hold on to their fragile bloc of votes, Mr. Smith proved to be a low-key, calming presence.
 ''He kept us from getting too wound up at a time when this was a very scary process,'' Senator Eric T. Schneiderman said. ''He succeeded in getting a bunch of us secular humanists to look forward to a prayer circle at the end of every day.''
 The successful coup solidified Mr. Smith's relationship with Mr. Paterson, now the governor, and he moved quietly but steadily to build a power base. He helped start a political action committee, Build New York, that raised close to $300,000 from contractors and real estate interests in Queens and on Long Island, funneling most of the funds to Democratic senators and challengers. 
 His popularity among Senate Democrats helped Mr. Smith survive the 2006 scandal of a paternity lawsuit filed by a former aide. (Mr. Smith, who has two children with his wife, Michele, eventually acknowledged fathering a daughter with the aide and began paying child support, but he has declined to name the woman or say when the affair began and ended.) 
 Those political ties also helped him win a bid in 2006 to succeed Mr. Paterson as minority leader.
 ''He knows how to talk to people, he knows how to reach across the aisle, he knows how to be tough when he needs to,'' said Patrick Jenkins, a political consultant who is close to Mr. Smith. ''I think some people take his smile and his happy-go-lucky attitude for weakness, and that's a mistake. I think he is a strong and prudent leader.''
 Others may need to be convinced. In August, for example, Mr. Smith caused a furor when, at a fund-raiser, he compared the Democrats to a company making an initial public offering, telling lobbyists that if they did not invest in the party before it won control of the Senate, they might regret it afterward. 
 Senate Republicans quickly called for a criminal investigation. Mr. Smith brushed it off as a joke, but later distanced himself from the remarks and reassigned his spokesman. The episode fueled worries about Mr. Smith's temperament and whether he could handle the intense scrutiny associated with the majority leader's job. 
 ''Malcolm is not scripted,'' said a friend, Assemblyman Darryl C. Towns. ''What you see is what you get.''
 But Mr. Smith said he and his Democratic colleagues were ready for what would be the most significant political transition in recent Albany history. Democratic aides say they have spent months planning how to staff and organize a Democratic Senate. 
 ''You're not going to have any mercy on us,'' Mr. Smith told a reporter. ''That's why I've got to make sure that we're ready.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Democrats have a majority in the State Senate for the first time in four decades, but so far Senator Malcolm A. Smith of Queens has been unable to persuade three mavericks to support him as majority leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); REAL ESTATE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1166 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: IRAQ APPROVES DEAL CHARTING END OF U.S. ROLE

BYLINE: By ALISSA RUBIN and CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; Reporting was contributed by Stephen Farrell, Suadad Salhy, Atheer Kakan and Riyadh Mohammed.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
With a substantial majority, the Iraqi Parliament on Thursday ratified a sweeping security agreement that sets the course for an end to the United States' role in the war and marks the beginning of a new relationship between the countries. 
 The pact, which still must be approved by Iraq's three-person presidency council, a move expected in the next few days, sets the end of 2011 as the date by which the last American troops must leave the country. 
 Its passage, on a vote of 149 to 35, according to a parliamentary statement, was a victory for Iraq's government as well as for the often fractious legislative body, which forged a political compromise among bitterly differing factions in 10 days of intense negotiations.
 After notable failures on some critical issues, including a law to divide oil revenues and another to determine the future of the disputed city of Kirkuk, the vote on Thursday represented a coming of age for the three-year-old Parliament. 
 ''This is the day of our sovereignty,'' said Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. ''Together we will go forward toward a free, prosperous and glorious Iraq, where Iraqis can live with pride and dignity and can be proud that they are sons of this beloved country.'' 
 The cabinet approved the final version of the security agreement on Nov. 16. Since then, the government has furiously worked to gain approval of the measure, which goes into effect on Jan. 1, when the United Nations mandate that currently governs American troop operations in the country expires. 
 In sharp contrast to the atmosphere during the drafting of Iraq's Constitution in 2005, there was relatively little violence on the streets during the parliamentary negotiations, despite intense and sometimes contentious debates. Within the halls of Parliament, Shiite religious clerics in swirling robes and turbans and women in long black abayas huddled in consultation with secular Sunnis and Kurds in tailored suits. There was far less of the intense mutual distrust that defined the discussions three years ago. 
 President Bush congratulated the Parliament on the vote. 
 ''Today's vote affirms the growth of Iraq's democracy and increasing ability to secure itself,'' Mr. Bush said in a statement. ''Two years ago this day seemed unlikely -- but the success of the surge and the courage of the Iraqi people set the conditions for these two agreements to be negotiated and approved by the Iraqi Parliament.'' 
 The security agreement and an accompanying document that outlines America's relationship with Iraq in areas like economics, health care and education, would grant Iraq considerable authority over American troop operations, requiring court orders to search buildings and detain suspects. 
 It also sets out a timetable requiring American troops to withdraw from cities and towns by June 30, 2009, and for all troops to leave the country by the end of 2011 unless the Iraqis and Americans negotiate a separate pact to extend the American military presence. (In contrast, President-elect Barack Obama campaigned under a promise to withdraw all American combat brigades from Iraq by May 2010, but set no date for a complete withdrawal.)
 The agreement commanded broad support, although it remains unclear how the several dozen lawmakers who failed to show up would have voted. There remained vocal opposition from followers of the anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr and some hard-line Sunni Arabs who disagreed vehemently with the idea of striking a deal with the United States, a country they view as having waged an illegal war. 
 ''America couldn't gain international legitimacy before the war,'' said Mohamed al-Dayni, a member of the National Dialogue Front, one of the Sunni parties. ''And they didn't have it until a few seconds before the vote, but unfortunately they got it from the Iraqi Parliament.'' 
 Nevertheless, the agreement enjoyed broad support across sectarian lines, largely because of the insistence of Iraq's pre-eminent religious leader, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, who from his modest office in Najaf has reached out to leaders from every faction. 
 The ayatollah told legislators and other members of the Iraqi government that it was not enough just to get the bill through, but that they needed to build a broad national consensus. That meant that the Shiite and Kurdish lawmakers who supported the deal from the outset had to fashion several accompanying measures to satisfy the doubts of a number of wary Sunnis. 
 Approved Thursday along with the security pact were a nonbinding resolution that included a commitment to address longstanding grievances of minority blocs in the Parliament as well as a law requiring a referendum on the pact to be held in July 2009. This resolution explicitly addressed Sunni demands for the enforcement of an amnesty law for thousands of detainees in Iraqi custody and for a greater sectarian balance in the security forces.
 Many Sunnis and independents in Parliament cited the referendum to justify their support of the agreement. With provincial elections scheduled for the end of January, none of the political parties wanted to be accused of making an unpopular agreement with the Americans, who are widely viewed here as an occupation force. 
 The approval of the referendum was seen as a way to ensure that the Americans respect the pact's terms -- at least in the coming months, said Adnan Pachachi, a senior member of the secular Iraqiya Party. The referendum will make the Americans ''more careful and they will not make mistakes that will cause the Iraqi people to reject the agreement,'' he said. 
 Although Sunni lawmakers were the most vocal about their concerns, most of Iraq's political parties submitted lists of demands to the government, exposing a chasm between Mr. Maliki's circle and the others. Even some of the toughest holdouts acknowledged that their objections were not to the pact itself; they resisted, they said, because of the likelihood that its passage would bolster Mr. Maliki's government. 
 Throughout the government's negotiations on the pact, which officially began on Aug. 26, 2007, but got under way in earnest last spring, neighboring countries, especially Iran, have been invisible but influential players. As recently as Wednesday night, lawmakers said messages came from Iran expressing disapproval of the political deal that was essential to the pact's ratification. 
 But lawmakers nevertheless pushed on with the negotiations, and the final compromise, arrived at less than an hour before the Parliament vote, differed little from the version rejected by the Iranians. Lawmakers who over the past few days had been tense, chain-smoking and sleep deprived, appeared relieved and even a little proud that they had come together and, despite accusations that they lacked patriotism, approved a pact that they had come to call ''The Withdrawal Agreement.'' 
 ''In 2003 we didn't have a right to decide, but now we have a chance to deal with reality and to deal with the occupation forces,'' said Dhi'aa al-Deen al-Fayeh, a member of the Shiite majority bloc in Parliament. ''Now we can regain our sovereignty gradually, and now we have a timetable and the whole world is a witness to this agreement.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iraqis at a tea house in Baghdad on Thursday watched coverage of the vote on a security pact.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CITIES (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); RELIGION (67%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008



1167 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COST OF LIVING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: The Joneses Weren't Keeping Up

BYLINE: By M.P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
AS the economy weakens, it's not just banks and auto companies that may need revamping, but also millions of American households -- many of which had come to depend on a stream of easy credit that now barely exists.
 Meet the Joneses, two Silicon Valley engineers who, in many ways, seem to have it all -- a home they bought for $850,000, two children and a combined income of about $250,000 a year. But despite their apparent wealth, Kirsten and Mike Jones financed much of their lifestyle with borrowed money. 
 Now, like many overspent Americans, the Joneses are deeply in debt. They owe $100,000 on their credit cards, and the tax assessor says their home is worth $100,000 less than they paid for it. To turn their finances around, they're embracing an idea so quaint it might be cool again: living within their means. 
 As they're discovering, the shift to real-income living demands not only new spending habits, but also a wholly different way of thinking about money.
 ''Every time we ended up overextended, we used to refinance our house,'' Ms. Jones, a software engineer in Scotts Valley, Calif., acknowledged. ''The house would creep up in value, and every five years or so we'd take out another $50,000, and pay off whatever we needed to.''
 She and her husband never felt that they were getting into debt, Ms. Jones said, because a kind of magical thinking prevailed: ''You owed more, but then your house was worth more,'' she said. ''So you didn't really have debt because you could always sell your house -- and poof! -- all previous sins would be erased.''
 For years, the Joneses sensed that something was wrong. Their expenses kept spiraling out of control and their checking account was chronically overdrawn. But as the economy began to tremble -- and the couple realized that they wanted to right their finances before their 11-year-old daughter entered college -- they decided to change course. ''There was this constant, underlying anxiety about money,'' Ms. Jones said. ''It was ridiculous -- I knew we should be able to live on what we were earning.''
 But switching to a lifestyle based on your actual income is more challenging than it seems, especially if you've been relying on credit as an income supplement. The maxim to ''tighten your belt'' implies that self-discipline is the solution, but our financial brains aren't so easily tamed.
 Many people rely on a quirky system of mental accounting when making financial choices, according to economists who study spending. If you saved $30 when buying a sweater, for example, you might talk yourself into buying shoes, with the rationale that you have an extra $30.
 The use of credit tends to make people's financial reasoning even more flawed, according to Dilip Soman, a professor of marketing at the Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto. ''I find that people who are used to paying for expenses by credit card tend to create an ad hoc 'credit card bill' mental account,'' Professor Soman said in an e-mail message.
 ''If the credit account vanishes, people are now forced to make cuts into their lifestyle, because their budgeted spending money supply has now shrunk,'' he said, even though that supply shouldn't have been included in their accounting from the start.
 MS. JONES said that to get back to living on their actual incomes, she and her husband had to stop thinking in terms of credit. They set up one bank account to cover the household bills and pay back debt. To rein in unnecessary expenditures, she and her husband each get a cash allowance of $600 a month.
 By living on cash, Ms. Jones said, they can still buy what they want -- dinners out, clothes, gadgets like the turkey fryer she just picked up at Costco -- but once the money is gone, that's it. 
 It's working so far, she said, and the unexpected payoff is peace of mind. ''There's so much anxiety, when you're adding to this huge mountain of debt,'' she said. ''We should be living off what we make, not what we're going to make later.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1168 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Latest Chrysler Buyout Offer Lures Quarter of Salaried Staff

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 

 BODY:
For the last month, many of the conversations at Chrysler's headquarters campus began with a simple but emotionally charged question: ''Are you staying or going?''
 The historic downsizing of the Detroit automakers has already eliminated more than 100,000 factory jobs over the last three years. But at Chrysler, the day before Thanksgiving was the moment of reckoning for endangered members of its white-collar work force. 
 Like General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, Chrysler is cutting deep into its white-collar ranks by offering buyouts or early retirement deals to managers, engineers, financial analysts and secretaries. The company is committed to reducing its salaried staff by 25 percent, or about 5,000 employees, by the end of the year.
 On Wednesday, employees filed out of the headquarters complex either with a buyout in hand on what was their last day on the job -- or on their way to a holiday weekend fraught with uncertainty about Chrysler's future. 
 For the thousands who accepted a buyout or early retirement package, leaving Chrysler was hardly an easy choice.
 ''I've been through previous downturns, but there was always a light at the end of the tunnel,'' said Jim Burns, who had worked for Chrysler since 1976. ''This time I'm not seeing any progress. I couldn't turn it down.''
 Mr. Burns had been laid off in 1979 as Chrysler sought -- and ultimately received -- a federal bailout. Three years later, he turned down a more lucrative job and returned to Chrysler, where his father, sister and brother-in-law also worked.
 ''I never wanted to do anything other than automotive. I loved Chrysler -- I still do,'' said Mr. Burns, 54. ''It was a great ride.''
 Some of his colleagues elected to stay, turning down buyout offers worth up to $100,000 to remain part of the automaker's fight to avoid bankruptcy.
 Those who remain are about to be confronted with thousands of newly empty offices and cubicles, an inescapable reminder of both the wrenching cuts that Chrysler has made and the difficulty that lies ahead.
 ''They're gambling that they're going to find a job or something better,'' said Jon Schwartz, 40, who elected to keep his job in logistics at Chrysler, where he has worked for 18 years.
 ''I think the bigger gamble might be staying, but I made my decision and I'm not looking back,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''On Monday we'll go in and see who is left.''
 Though some workers have until Sunday to change their minds, it appears that Chrysler more or less reached its goal of persuading 5,000 white-collar workers to leave by Wednesday's deadline. That amounts to roughly a quarter of a salaried and contract work force that has already been decimated by several years of deep cuts, including 1,000 jobs in September.
 The company had said initially it would probably need to make some layoffs in December, but a Chrysler spokeswoman, Shawn Morgan, said on Friday, ''We expect minimal if any involuntary separations in December.''
 Chrysler has also been eliminating factory jobs as it tries to conserve cash and match its production capacity with sharply lower demand for vehicles. By the end of this year, Chrysler will have cut 32,000 jobs since the beginning of 2007, its chief executive, Robert L. Nardelli, told Congress this month.
 Across town, G.M. and Ford have been drastically reducing their salaried and hourly payrolls as well. Both used buyout programs to cut tens of thousands of unionized assembly jobs in 2006 and 2008. More recently, G.M. eliminated about 5,100 white-collar jobs by Nov. 1 and has an additional 2,000 cuts planned. The company is also reducing benefits for its remaining white-collar workers and dropping health care coverage for retirees.
 The reduction is a critical step toward ensuring the long-term survival of the carmakers, but at the same time the companies say they may not even last long enough for that to matter unless the government steps in quickly with financial assistance.
 Executives from G.M., Ford and Chrysler are spending the holiday weekend assembling their revival plans for Congress, which refused their initial request for $25 billion in loans but will reconsider the matter over the next few weeks.
 Without federal aid, G.M. and Chrysler have said they could soon run out of money, and industry specialists say one bankruptcy could cause the others to collapse, ultimately resulting in broad job losses. 
 On Wednesday night, hundreds of Chrysler employees jammed the Red Ox Tavern to celebrate their freedom from the beleaguered auto industry or to commiserate about the tough road ahead. Outside, rows of Dodge Calibers, Chrysler Sebrings and Jeep Grand Cherokees spilled into the snow-covered grass.
 The buyout offer included a $75,000 payment to workers with at least 10 years of experience and $50,000 for those with less, plus a voucher worth $25,000 off a new Chrysler vehicle. Some former employees hope the money will be enough to live on until they can secure other work. Others are prepared to use the buyout money to cover the shortfall between their mortgage balance and the value of their home in Michigan's depressed housing market, so they can sell and move to a state where jobs are more plentiful.
 Those without a home to sell or family obligations keeping them in the Detroit area are almost certain to head elsewhere immediately.
 ''I figured I can take a chance. I'm 28, single -- I can go wherever I want,'' said Jessica Krul, who worked in purchasing at Chrysler for two years and turned in her buyout papers a week ago.
 Katrina Harris, 37, who was born in Detroit and began working for Chrysler as a summer intern during college 14 years ago, wrestled with her decision to leave but is optimistic about making a fresh start outside the auto industry.
 ''Chrysler's all I know,'' she said. ''I'm giving myself a year to kind of tread water, and I told my family I may have to move out of Michigan to find something.''
 For some, Michigan's miserable economy was a reason to stay at Chrysler, even knowing that they could eventually end up unemployed later on without a buyout payment to lean on.
 ''A week ago, I was 90 percent sure I would take it,'' said Diane Pierse, 45, an information technology employee who is married and has two children, one of whom is in college. ''But I figured if I don't have another job I was better off collecting as many paychecks as I can and trying to hang on. There's a lot of hard work ahead of us. But I want to ride it out and be here for when it turns around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After 24 years, Brian Miller took the Chrysler buyout and left Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 Over beers on Wednesday, Jim Burns, center, looked at a list of people who took the the buyout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BAILOUTS (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); THANKSGIVING (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1169 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2325 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times: Novemebr 29, 2008

 BODY:
International
 MIXED FEELINGS ON RATIFICATION 
 Of Withdrawal Accord in Iraq
 Iraqis across the country were trying to make sense of the agreement that sets a 2011 deadline for the withdrawal of American troops. Many were happy that there was finally a set date for an American departure. Some worried that the pact would leave the Iraqi government with too much power. And others were skeptical that a superpower would leave a much weaker country of its own volition. PAGE A5
 ON BEST-SELLER AND HIT LISTS
 Rosaria Capacchione, above, is a veteran reporter of a newspaper near Naples who spent years reporting on the short lives, violent deaths and intricate finances of the members of the ruling crime families in the region. Her best-selling book on the subject has made her the target of many death threats. But the latest one, from a defendant in high-profile trial, has led to her being saddled with a police escort for protection and put her at the center of a media circus driven by a fascination with the region's underworld. PAGE A6 
 12 KILLED IN IRAQ BOMBING
 Twelve people were killed and 19 were wounded in a town south of Baghdad by a suicide bomber wearing an explosive vest, according to witnesses and security officials. The attack occurred as hundreds of people attended prayers on Friday and prepared to hold a peaceful march to protest the Iraqi Parliament's ratification on Thursday of a new security agreement with the United States. PAGE A5
 A LOOSELY DRAWN VICTORY
 The security agreements between Iraq and the United States mean that the war in Iraq is winding down. But they leave room for uncertainties that could disrupt the smooth withdrawal of American troops from Iraq. ''Question marks remain in the agreement concerning freedom of action for U.S. soldiers, vague security commitments and protection of Iraqi assets,'' said one defense analyst. PAGE A5
 TWO EXECUTED FOR SPYING IN CHINA
 Wo Weihan, a scientist and owner of a medical supply company, was executed in Beijing after being convicted of espionage by a Chinese court. The execution came despite pleas for clemency from the Bush administration and European officials. A distant relative of Mr. Wo, Guo Wanjun, was convicted as a conspirator and also put to death. PAGE A6
 THAI PROTESTERS PREPARE FOR CLASHES
 The antigovernment protesters in Bangkok who blockaded the capital's two airports prepared themselves for more clashes with the police. The apparent reluctance among security forces to forcibly evict the protesters led the government to abruptly demote the country's national police chief. PAGE A8
 National
 WAL-MART WORKER DIES
 After Shoppers Trample Him
 Just five minutes before the doors to a Wal-Mart in Valley Stream, N.Y., were set to open, a crowd of 2,000 Black Friday shoppers started crushing against the sliding glass doors, the police said. They smashed the doors off their hinges and trampled an employee who had been waiting with other workers in the store's entryway. The crowd kept jostling and pushing officers trying to perform CPR, the police said. The trampled worker, Jdimypai Damour, 34, of Jamaica, Queens, was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was pronounced dead. PAGE A16 
 COMPANY GIVES GIFT OF CLEANLINESS
 Think of them as a facial cleanser for a blemish of monumental dimensions, scrubbing pimples and age spots off the faces of Mount Rushmore. The German cleaning company Alfred Karcher did just that in the summer of 2005. The company's corporate giving program has buffed and polished many landmarks around the world. Karcher is among an increasing number of companies using their equipment and expertise as part of their corporate philanthropy. PAGE A14 
 POSSIBLE MOTIVE IN ANCHOR'S DEATH
 Robbery may have been the motive in the bludgeoning death of a popular television anchor in Little Rock, Ark., the police said, adding that the man arrested in the case, Curtis L. Vance of Marianna, is also wanted in connection with a rape near his hometown. The police said it was not known where the man first spotted the anchor, Anne Pressly, 26; why he chose her as a victim; or what prompted the savage attack. PAGE A17 
 BUSH SHOWS REFLECTIVE SIDE
 President Bush, not a person said to be comfortable with deep introspection, opened up a bit to a recent interviewer, reflecting on life in office and beyond. It may have helped that the person asking questions of the president and first lady was his sister, Doro Bush Koch, above. The president acknowledged that he would miss some things, including the comfort of the presidential retreat at Camp David in Maryland. He said he would not miss the limelight. PAGE A15 
 Obituaries
 ANDREW J. MCKELVEY
 A serial entrepreneur who in his early 60s jumped into Internet commerce as the executive who built Monster.com, into the leading job recruitment Web site. He was 74. PAGE D8 
 ENNIO DE CONCINI
 A prolific Italian screenwriter who won an Academy Award for the internationally popular comedy ''Divorce -- Italian Style.'' He was 84. PAGE D8 
 New York
 DESPITE PLEDGE, DEMOCRATS MAY DELAY SAME-SEX MARRIAGE BILL
 Democratic leaders in New York said they would legalize same-sex marriage if they won control of the State Senate. But amid debate about how ready the broader electorate is to embrace same-sex marriage, Democrats may be backing off that pledge, and may not seriously revisit the issue until 2011, when they hope Gov. David A. Paterson, a strong backer of gay rights, will be safely into a second term. PAGE A18
 PLACING CHILDREN FAR FROM HOME
 Seven years ago, the city set a goal of housing at least three-quarters of children in foster care in homes near their parents. But the end of September, only 11 percent of the 2,791 children who were placed in foster homes this year through September were kept in their home community districts, as the agency refers to its 59 zones. That often means grueling treks for parents trying to visit their children, who are often boroughs away. PAGE A18 
 Sports
 IN BITTER SOONER-COWBOY RIVALRY,
 Sooners May Need to Win Big
 Oklahoma State and Oklahoma are acrimonious rivals, and their 104-year-old series -- known as Bedlam -- divides the state even more than notions of Republican and Democrat. Although Oklahoma has dominated the all-time series, this year's matchup is their last chance to settle the debate of whether they or Texas should be the Big 12's higher-ranked team in the USA Today coaches poll and the Harris poll. And unlike Texas, Oklahoma has a formidable foe this week in their in-state rival. PAGE D2
 A SURE THING GETS A SECOND SHOT
 Billy Don Malone was supposed to be a sure thing, a future first-round N.F.L. talent at quarterback whose coach at Tulane joked that Malone would earn him a contract extension. But a heart problem cut short his college career and he left the university with a grade-point average below 1.5 and a marijuana habit. But six years later, Malone is married with two children, and has re-emerged as a pro prospect at quarterback in the unlikeliest of places: Division II Abilene Christian University. PAGE D1 
 A SIGN OF PROGRESS IN THE N.F.L.
 Despite the controversies surrounding Donovan McNabb, Vince Young and Michael Vick, Harvey Araton writes that the presence of so many talented black quarterbacks in the N.F.L. is evidence of how far the league has come. Doug Williams, the first African-American to start (and win) a Super Bowl, agrees. ''We've made a lot of progress,'' Williams said. ''Do I think there needs to be more? Hell, yeah.'' PAGE D1 
 Business
 E.U. ACCUSES DRUG COMPANIES 
 Of Blocking Generics
 The European Union said that drug companies that delayed or blocked the sale of less expensive generic medicines added billions of dollars to health care costs. That was part of the preliminary findings of a broad investigation into accusations of anticompetitive practices in the drug sector, which also found that generics companies had received $200 million from pharmaceutical companies over seven years in exchange for holding their products off the market. PAGE B3 
 BRITAIN HOPES TO LURE TOURISTS
 Last year, British tourists flocked to American stores hunting for bargains as the dollar fell to its weakest level against the pound in 26 years. But now that pound has fallen to its lowest level in almost six years, it's the British retailers who are hoping to lure American tourists while also enticing Britons who shopped abroad last year to stay at home. PAGE B1
 THE ECONOMIC CRISIS HITS THE ROAD
 Navistar, the country's sole independent manufacturer of trucks and buses, is conservatively managed -- no fancy financial engineering, no excessive debt, no risky loans to customers. And so the company, which has survived world wars and other downturrns, will survive this crisis, as well. Nonetheless, the company is experiencing the pain being felt by the rest of the trucking industry, which has tight margins even in the best economic times. PAGE B1
 THE TV AS CRYSTAL BALL
 How strong is the American economy? You might look at the number of people lugging home big flat-screen televisions this holiday season for a clue. As high-definition sets have become the hearth of the digital home, they are increasingly central to the fortunes of the consumer electronics industry and plenty of retailers. And like many indicators of the nation's economic health, what observers are seeing is cause for serious concern. PAGE B1
 DEBT PRESSES A WEAKENED POUND
 A member of Britain's Conservative Party warned that the government's plan to borrow and spend its way out of a recession could lead to a run on the pound, which continues to slide. He is not alone in his pessimism. ''Any economy with our level of borrowing and our deficit of trade should have one of the world's weakest currencies, not the strongest,'' said one investment broker. ''I just don't think this country understands how serious the problem is.'' PAGE B3
 SHOULD YOU GIVE TO OL' STATE U?
 Consumers are tightening their wallets amid the creeping fear that economic calamity could be in the offing. But in these tough times, where exactly in your priorities should you place giving to your alma mater? Ron Lieber, Your Money. PAGE B1
 Arts
 MAN KNOWN FOR LOVE OF LIFE
 Has Respect Paid to His Own
 The anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss, above, turned 100, and France celebrated the man who changed the way Westerners look at other civilizations with fireworks for the mind and soul: several days of films, lectures and free admission to the museum he inspired, the Musee du Quai Branly. Mr. Levi-Strauss's illustrious career was begun by ''Tristes Tropiques,'' a sort of travelogue-cum-journal of his trip to Brazil and other countries in the 1930s. Page C1 
 A GODDESS VERSUS A FIRST LADY
 With this play, there's the option not to go and thus avoid reliving the Clinton drama of presidencies past. But if you do attend, at least the pyrotechnics will come from professional thespians. ''Hillary: A Modern Green Tragedy With a (Somewhat) Happy Ending'' has tossed politics, interns, Athena, Aphrodite and stained dresses into a blender. But the laughs are steady, writes Neil Genzlinger, and you get to find out what would happen if the Greek gods meddled in human politics once again. Page C11 
 LIFE TWISTS IN WIND AND ON STAGE
 Wayne McGregor is a name unfamiliar to many American dance aficionados, but across the pond, he is the resident choreographer of the Royal Ballet in London, writes Roslyn Sulcas. Famous for his two-year-old piece, ''Chroma,'' and its twists, articulations and cascading movement, he is back with a new offering. A digital screen of virtual dancers, parades ad infinitum as ''Infra'' pays homage in movement to chaos and solitude, and possibility moves rhapsodic before it. Page C3 
 This Weekend
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 The sea of digital information being recorded by an ever-thicker web of sensors coupled with information already gathered from sources like Web surfing and credit cards is the basis for an emerging field called collective intelligence. It offers powerful capabilities for good, along with the potential for an Orwellian future on a level that Big Brother could only dream of. PAGE 1
 TRAVEL
 Richmond, Va., 110 miles south of Washington, is pitching itself as a ''historic, affordable alternative to Washington'' for the inauguration. The Clifton, in Charlottesville, Va., about two hours from D.C., is offering a $1,895 three-night inauguration package, and the Tremont Plaza Hotel in Baltimore is offering a $7,000-a-night package. The hope is for spillover business from what figures to be a jampacked nation's capital. PAGE 4
 Editorial
 MEDICARE'S TOO COSTLY PRIVATE PLANS
 Private health insurance plans were supposed to bring better care and lower costs to elderly patients covered by Medicare. Instead they have increased the cost and complexity of the program without improving care. PAGE A22 
 THE PROP 8 CAMPAIGN MONEY
 California's fair-elections commission is investigating a complaint against the Mormon Church's role in campaigning for a ballot proposition that made marriage illegal between people of the same sex. So far, it appears the state is right to look into it. PAGE A22 
 MR. BUSH AND THE PARDON POWER
 It is presidential pardon season. We hope President Bush will not abuse his pardon power to put his appointees, political supporters or friends above the law. PAGE A22 
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 ''Ripple effect'' is too mild a term for the potentially devastating impact of a collapse among the Big Three automakers. PAGE A23 
 CHARLES M. BLOW
 An analysis of why blacks voted in favor of Proposition 8, and of how their vote possibly could be swayed next time around. PAGE A23 
 NO CHEFS IN MY KITCHEN
 In an Op-Ed article, Marcella Hazan, the author of ''Amarcord: Marcella Remembers,'' writes about the forgotten importance of being a simple cook. PAGE A23 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); CONSPIRACY (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BESTSELLERS (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); EVICTION (60%)

COMPANY: MEDICAL SUPPLY CO (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (67%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (93%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1170 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Putting A Face On Big Auto

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
If we were interested in making the best possible decisions with regard to the U.S. auto industry, someone like Rich Breen would be seen as the face of the industry, not the chief executives of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. 
 Mr. Breen is a 55-year-old member of the Teamsters union, a car hauler who delivers new vehicles for the Big Three automakers. He lives in Clinton Township, a suburb of Detroit, and he is horrified by the steady erosion of the American standard of living that he sees each day as he makes his rounds. 
 ''I see the tool and die industry dying in the light industrial areas,'' he told me in an interview just before Thanksgiving. ''I see the clientele decreasing in the local barbershops, the hardware stores and the restaurants. That's all happening from the first phase of the downsizing in the auto industry, the cutbacks and layoffs that have already occurred. It's not from the current crisis.
 ''The community around me is deteriorating before my eyes. I hear people saying if G.M., Ford or Chrysler shuts down it wouldn't affect them. They have no idea. It would have a domino effect that we've never had before in the United States. 
 ''The bottom would fall out and the ripple effects would go all over the country.''
 The bottom is already falling out. The question for Congress and the incoming Obama administration is whether to risk allowing the industry to collapse completely. The number of people working for the Big Three automakers has already been cut drastically, perhaps in half since 2000, and more cuts are to come, even with a government rescue effort.
 The United Automobile Workers agreed to extraordinary contract concessions in negotiations that took place in 2005 and 2007. Not only will there be no raises for the four-year life of the most recent contract, but the starting pay for new hires at the Big Three has been cut by 50 percent -- to $14 to $16 an hour. Benefits have also been slashed.
 ''Ripple effect'' is too mild a term for the impact that a bankruptcy among the Big Three would have on other manufacturers, suppliers, dealers, insurance companies and thousands of businesses that at first glance would not seem to be related to the auto industry. The industry supports, in one way or another, one in every 10 jobs in the nation.
 A bankruptcy would be like a hurricane blowing through the U.S. economy.
 Those winds are already taking a fierce toll. Darin Gilley is a 45-year-old father of two young girls who lives in Pacific, Mo., about 30 miles southwest of St. Louis. He worked in a plant that made seats for Chrysler vehicles until he was laid off at the end of October. He's also president of a U.A.W. local that represents employees in a plant that makes dashboards for Chrysler.
 Both plants are closing. 
 ''You can't let this industry go down,'' Mr. Gilley said. ''It would be catastrophic. I'll tell you an interesting fact: auto parts supply is the number one industrial employer in seven states, including Missouri. And it's a top five employer in 12 other states.''
 The auto industry is embedded in the very heart and soul of the United States, a nation in which people travel by car with the natural ease of birds flying. Think of service stations, body shops, tire distributorships, car washes. ...
 Some analysts have suggested that even if the Big Three were to disappear, the foreign carmakers would fill the vacuum, as if the cornerstone of American manufacturing -- and everything it has meant and still could mean to American life and culture -- were somehow disposable, like a worn-out paper bag.
 Get real.
 Mr. Gilley mentioned a number of close friends and associates who have already succumbed to the crisis. ''This one fellow and his wife lost their house,'' he said. ''It was foreclosed on. They had to send back their truck. And they've got two kids, younger than mine. The kids don't stop growing just because you've lost your job.''
 Mr. Breen, the car hauler, told me about an aunt, Lee Jones, who was the owner of Diversified Industries, a company that painted grille assemblies for the Big Three.
 ''It employed about 75 people on the day and night shift,'' he said. ''She got caught in the industry's downsizing within the last year and a half and had to close her doors. So the jobs in her shop are just gone.''
 The auto industry problem is an enormous one, with implications for every American. We can rescue and reshape the industry in a way that makes sense, economically and otherwise. Or we can close our eyes to reality, as we have so many times in recent years, and suffer the inevitable devastating consequences. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); BARBER SHOPS (68%); HARDWARE STORES (54%); THANKSGIVING (54%); INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1171 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Caution at Home and Overseas

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL; Ashlee Vance and Claire Cain Miller contributed reporting.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
In a volatile year that has turned many Americans into armchair economists, here's an important indicator to watch this holiday shopping season: how many people are lugging home big, flat-screen televisions?
 The answer matters to more than just TV makers. Just as high-definition sets have become the hearth of the digital home, they are increasingly central to the fortunes of the consumer electronics industry and plenty of retailers.
 And there's reason for serious concern. While retailers are trying to use discounted TVs as a lure for shoppers, many would-be buyers continue to wait, and wait, for a magical price that is low enough to inspire a purchase. Others just have more pressing needs.
 ''The question is whether I buy a TV or something more important,'' said David Lunsford, 62, who visited a Circuit City near here last week to shop for big-screen TVs. He would love to replace his aging rear-projection set, but he worried he needed to save money in case family members hit tough times. 
 ''I'm a stable provider. They may turn to me,'' said Mr. Lunsford, who works for the federal government.
 Americans are expected to spend $28 billion this year on TVs, making them the largest segment of the $173 billion electronics industry. So far about half of American households have made the jump to flat-panel screens, which started out as status symbols but are on their way to becoming standard household appliances.
 More people may choose to upgrade this year because of the national switchover to digital broadcast signals coming Feb. 17. The change, which will mostly affect people who watch over-the-air signals on older sets, has generated a good amount of consumer confusion -- which could be good for sales of new sets.
 TVs are also a gateway to a host of other products, like Blu-ray discs and their players, surround-sound audio systems, digital video recorders and cables.
 All of these factors have led electronics stores like Circuit City and Best Buy, and even less specialized chains like Sears, Wal-Mart and Office Depot, to put TVs front and center in their advertising recently, promoting them on the cover of Sunday circulars and on the home pages of Web sites. They are offering discounts -- like 42-inch TVs for less than $700 and 32-inch sets for $450 -- that come on top of recent steep price declines for the sets.
 For the industry, the feeling is that if retailers cannot get TVs to move, the holiday season could be a bleak one indeed. In that sense, the TV market offers a glimpse of the broader tensions this year between wary consumers on the one hand and retailers and manufacturers desperate to spur sales on the other.
 ''The television becomes a litmus test of the robustness of the American economy,'' said Richard Doherty, an electronics industry analyst with the research firm Envisioneering. In Mr. Doherty's consumer surveys, the early word is mixed; many consumers want a new TV, but they think that if they wait to buy, retailers will drop prices further.
 There were signs on Friday that more cuts might be necessary. At two malls outside Portland, Ore., the electronics stores were the only ones that were full of shoppers. But people seemed to be gravitating toward lower-priced items like video games instead of televisions.
 Mr. Doherty's firm tracked stores in New York and California and found that for some retailers it was the slowest Black Friday of the decade. ''There are lots of big-screen TVs still standing on the show floor,'' he said. ''This is not what was expected by retailers or manufacturers.'' 
 Store owners may cut TV prices even further with revamped sales starting on Sunday, Mr. Doherty said. 
 Steven Caldero, chief operating officer of Ken Cranes, a 10-store consumer electronics chain in the Los Angeles area, painted a rosier picture. 
 ''Our traffic has been very good,'' Mr. Caldero said. ''Our sales have been good. I think people went out and decided to buy something to make themselves feel better.''
 In just the first two hours of operation on Friday, Ken Cranes matched about one-third of the business it did for all of Black Friday last year. But while consumers bought plenty of TVs, they shied away from purchasing complementary products like audio systems, Mr. Caldero said. 
 ''I am not seeing as much of that as I would like to see,'' he said. Consumers eyeing televisions have historically been rewarded for their patience: flat-panel prices have fallen nearly in half in the last two years. 
 A year ago, for example, Sony sold a 40-inch model for $1,600 that now costs $1,000, and a 32-inch model for $1,100 that now goes for $749. And Sony is one of the costlier brands. Several manufacturers are selling 32-inch TVs for $450 to $500. Mammoth TVs, those more than 50 inches, have come down too; Best Buy is offering a 52-inch Sharp for $1,299. 
 Beyond price drops, manufacturers and retailers are trying to spur demand with other incentives. At Circuit City, for instance, televisions get a 60-day price guarantee, whereas other products have a 30-day guarantee. Reflecting the special place held by TVs, Circuit City offers 36 months of interest-free payments on some larger sets, compared with 24 months for other products.
 Many major retailers are sweetening the pot by bundling TVs with high-definition DVD players, or offering discount bundles on cables. They announced Black Friday deals weeks in advance, and some -- like Best Buy -- began sales events in the days before Thanksgiving, with heavy promotions on TVs. 
 And yet consumers remain cautious, and manufacturers are nervous.
 Mr. Caldero of Ken Cranes said he had been in constant contact with electronics manufacturers, including TV makers, that were trying to gauge demand.
 ''I've had more calls from vendors in the last few weeks than I've had in the last three years,'' he said. ''They want to know what's going on, how's business, what's working and what's not.''
 Just to be safe, TV makers have been shipping fewer sets -- but they may not have pulled back fast enough. In the third quarter of this year, shipments to North American retailers of LCD TVs rose 21 percent from a year ago, and those of plasma TVs rose 20 percent, according to DisplaySearch, a market research firm. That is down from growth rates in the last two years that at times hit triple digits.
 Paul Semenza, an analyst with DisplaySearch, said that the downturn in sales of TVs did not hit until mid-October, so despite the slowdown in shipments the retailers and manufacturers were still facing a glut of sets.
 ''Oversupply has just cascaded,'' Mr. Semenza said.
 As in other industries, that oversupply, and the uncertainty of consumer demand, has caused problems further back in the manufacturing and supply chain. In Taiwan and Korea where the LCD screens for the sets are made, prices are falling 5 to 9 percent a month, a ''tremendous drop,'' said Andrew Abrams, an analyst with Avian Securities, which tracks the electronics industry. Such drops, he said, suggest that retailers have far too much inventory, and he expects another round of price cuts.
 The question is, who will blink first, manufacturers and retailers, or consumers? 
 Bruce Tripido, vice president for marketing at the TV maker Sharp, said adequate discounts were already in place.
 ''We're not looking to shift gears from the offers we've planned,'' Mr. Tripido said. ''The pricing is so compelling for this holiday selling season that it's to the point of irresistible.'' 
 Yet resistance remains for many consumers, like Bayani Deluna Jr., 35, who stood last week at a San Francisco-area Best Buy looking longingly at a 32-inch Sony television. Mr. Deluna, who worked as a parking valet until a few weeks ago when he went on disability, is waiting for the $600 price to drop.
 ''If it comes down to $450, I'd buy it,'' he said. ''And I'm sure the price is going to come down.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers comparing TVs on Friday at a Wal-Mart in Secaucus, N.J. Retailers use big discounts on televisions to lure consumers into stores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 Manufacturers and retailers are trying to spur demand for TVs by dropping prices. Above, a shopper loading a TV into a cab outside a Circuit City in New York. At left, customers in line inside the store. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE FORNABAIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (92%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (77%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1172 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Crisis Born On Wall St. Hits Road

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
When you live and work in New York, it is easy to succumb to the fallacy that the financial crisis is all about us. It's about giant, New York-based institutions failing or coming close to failing. It's about high-stakes weekends in the offices of the New York Federal Reserve. It's about credit-default swaps and mortgage-backed securities and the wild swings of the New York stock exchange. It's about Jamie Dimon and Richard Fuld. 
 But of course it's not just about us. It is not even primarily about Washington, where so much of the response to the crisis --$700 billion bailouts! Front-page Congressional hearings! Economic summit meetings! -- has taken place. 
 No, it is about everybody, in every part of the country: neighborhoods awash in foreclosures and For Sale signs. Layoffs at the worst possible time. Small companies struggling to stay alive. Credit card companies raising rates unconscionably. People with perfectly fine credit scores finding it all but impossible to get loans. 
 The credit crisis is rippling up and down the economy in ways that may not create obvious headlines but that affect the way people do their business and live their lives. People, for instance, who sell and drive trucks.
 ''Even in good times, the trucking community works on razor-thin, single-digit margins,'' said G. David Gerrard, who runs a Chicago-area business that is the largest truck dealership in the United States. ''If somebody bumps your lending costs by three basis points'' -- that is three hundredths of a percent -- ''it is a big deal. There is no price elasticity.''
 He continued: ''We have a customer here in Chicago, a 50-year-old company, that just shut down. It had all of its eggs in one basket -- 80 percent of its revenues came from an auto parts company that just liquidated. I have another customer with 280 to 290 drivers that had its first layoffs in 40 years. They laid off 20 drivers. One truck deal blew up when we discovered the guy was four months late on his mortgage payments. I have guys who buy 25 trucks a year from us who aren't buying anything this year. We sold 38 percent fewer units in 2008 than we did in 2007.''
 I had gone to Chicago to learn about the effects of the credit crisis on a large, industrial, somewhat under-the-radar company called Navistar, the sole independent manufacturer of trucks and buses in the United States. Founded at the turn of the last century as a maker of agricultural equipment, it was known as International Harvester until the mid-1980s (truckers still call it ''International''). The company has survived two World Wars, the Great Depression, a near-death experience in the early 1990s, and, most recently, an accounting problem severe enough to cause it to be delisted for almost a year and a half from the New York Stock Exchange.
 Because it is conservatively managed -- no fancy financial engineering, no excessive debt, no risky loans to customers -- Navistar is going to survive this crisis as well. But that doesn't mean it isn't feeling any pain, or that it doesn't see the effects of the crisis all around it. On the contrary, companies like Navistar see the effects of the financial crisis far more clearly than most policy makers do. Because trucks haul 70 to 80 percent of everything we buy, truck drivers and trucking companies feel even the slightest economic downturn. They're on the front lines of the crisis.
 Mr. Gerrard, a garrulous, animated, 50-year-old executive who looks like a retired middle linebacker, runs a huge Navistar dealership that generates around $200 million in annual sales. Outside, in the company's lot, stood rows of trucks of all sorts, from basic city delivery trucks to spacious truck cabs priced at more than $100,000. Mr. Gerrard took over the dealership several years ago, when Navistar concluded it needed to bring in new management, and he's been whipping the place into shape ever since. He employs 400 people in and around the Chicago area.
 Thanks to cost controls and other measures Mr. Gerrard put in place, the dealership still expects to make a profit this year, despite the drastic drop in sales and revenue. He is managing his receivables very tightly, he told me -- even going to the homes of customers who are in arrears on their payments. Since the financial crisis began, he hasn't had to lay anyone off. But he is consolidating two shifts into one, and getting rid of a lot of overtime pay. His employees aren't complaining, though, not in this environment. They still have jobs.
 Like most companies in America right now, a crucial issue for Mr. Gerrard is credit -- in his case, credit for his customers. Navistar has a captive finance company, Navistar Financial, which is the trucking equivalent of GMAC. But its cost of capital has risen sharply, thanks to the crisis. That means Mr. Gerrard's costs have risen as well, since Navistar Financial supplies much of his financing needs. 
 Perhaps more important, it means that it costs his customers more when they need loans to buy a truck. What's more, other lenders, like GE Capital, have ceased making truck loans in the Chicago area. When I suggested to Mr. Gerrard that this must be good for Navistar's business, he shook his head vigorously. It is impossible for Navistar Financial to make 100 percent of the truck loans, so the withdrawal of other lenders means that trucking companies will not be able to get loans to buy vehicles. 
 ''We have situations where customers need or want trucks but they can't get financing,'' he said. ''They are really, really struggling.''
 The next morning I drove out to Warrenville, in the Chicago suburbs, to visit Navistar's headquarters. The company's chief executive, Dan C. Ustian, had just returned from Washington, where he had attended a big executive conference held by The Wall Street Journal. He had originally been put on a panel to tackle energy and environment -- a natural spot for a truck executive -- but he had asked to be moved to the finance panel instead. 
 As I quickly discovered, the state of lending in the financial crisis is his most pressing concern, far more than, say, the new emissions requirements on diesel engines that are mandated for 2010. No sooner had he shaken my hand than he launched into a passionate speech about the failure of the banking industry to do what it was supposed to be doing to help get us out of this crisis.
 ''It appears that money is being loaned by the government to the banks at a very attractive rate, and that money is not getting down to consumers or businesses,'' he said. ''We have had 2,500 bankruptcies in our industry in a nine-month period. You can't believe how many of those trucking companies have been in business a long time, and they're profitable, but they can't get working capital. And when they can get it, they have to pay an arm and a leg. Some of the midsized customers we do business with are paying 14 and 15 percent for money, with a lot of onerous covenants. So that is what is happening to our customers.''
 Like Mr. Gerrard at the dealership, Mr. Ustian was fairly sanguine about Navistar's own prospects. The company, he explained, had happily negotiated a five-year financing in January 2007, at very favorable rates, which was helping keep its own capital costs low even as everyone else's were soaring. But that didn't mean there wasn't going to be pain. When I asked him about layoffs, he sighed. ''Yeah, for sure, they're coming,'' he said. He also explained that in a normal economy, this should be a time when truck sales increase. The truck business is highly cyclical, and the industry was just coming out of a low point in the cycle. What's more, there is usually a big uptick in sales in the year before new emissions standards take effect, because the new engines required to meet the standards push up the cost of a truck by thousands of dollars. 
 But that wasn't happening this time. ''We were gaining in market share and overall sales'' earlier in the year, Mr. Ustian said. But then came the traumatic events of September -- Fannie and Freddie, Lehman Brothers, American International Group, the bailout bill and all the rest of it -- and ''it just stalled,'' he said. ''You could see it starting to get better, and then it just collapsed.''
 Something else happened to Navistar in September. Its stock price went into free fall. After working through its accounting issues, the company was relisted on the New York Stock Exchange in July, with its stock in the 60s. (It had traded over the counter during the delisting.) But in a two-month span between mid-September and mid-November, it dropped from $62 a share to $15.
 Mr. Ustian found this bewildering -- and more than a little frustrating. On the one hand, other trucking companies were suffering similar declines, and truck sales were certainly down. On the other hand, his company's fundamentals hadn't really changed all that much between September and November. 
 So what was going on? When Navistar was delisted in February 2007, large institutional investors like pension funds had to get rid of the stock. The shares were picked up by hedge funds, which at the peak owned well over half of Navistar's stock. 
 Though no one at Navistar can prove it, they strongly suspect that the stock has been hammered because hedge funds, badly hurt during this phase of the financial crisis, have been forced to sell some of their more liquid positions to return money to exiting shareholders. I suspect this theory is correct, and it would be yet another way that fallout from the financial crisis has spread from New York to the rest of the country. 
 ''My opinion is that it is going to get worse before it gets better,'' Mr. Ustian said, as I prepared to leave. He wasn't talking about Navistar anymore, but about the American economy. ''Unemployment is going to get worse. We have to free up money so that people have confidence again to spend. It's psychological. We have to get some confidence back.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Talking Business column on Saturday, about the effect of the credit crisis on truck manufacturers and dealers, misstated the singularity of Navistar, a Chicago-based maker of trucks and buses. It is one of two independent American truck makers, not the only one. The other is Paccar, which makes the Kenworth and Peterbilt brands and is based in Bellevue, Wash.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dan C. Ustian, chief of the truck and bus maker Navistar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 At David Gerrard's truck dealership in Chicago, would-be buyers ''can't get financing,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (62%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (62%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (53%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (55%); JAMES DIMON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1173 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Britain Hopes to Lure Shoppers With Weak Pound

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Last Christmas, American stores were flooded with British tourists hunting for bargains as the dollar fell to its weakest level against the pound in 26 years. 
 This year, the situation is reversed. The pound is worth $1.54 -- its lowest level in almost six years -- and British retailers are hoping to lure American tourists while also enticing Britons who shopped abroad last year to stay at home.
 So far, an influx of Americans -- or a spending spree by visitors from the 15 countries that share the euro, which rose to a record against the pound in November -- has not materialized. While some retailers have noticed more visitors, their impact on the economy has been negligible. With many countries in or teetering on a recession and fears about rising unemployment weighing on consumers, the weak pound may not be enough to encourage Americans to cross the Atlantic and shop in Britain. 
 ''Consumers are a fragile beast,'' said Geoffrey Dicks, an economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland. ''Americans aren't traveling, or spending either, if they're scared to lose their jobs.''
 To attract those who might, British shops and travel companies are using the exchange rate as a marketing tool. Visit Britain, the national tourism agency, tells visitors to its Web site, ''It's not 2:1 any more! Britain is now 20 percent cheaper for Americans than it was in the summer. If you're planning a trip, now is the time.'' 
 The agency's London branch said it was flooding American travel agencies with marketing material and encouraging them to make customers aware of the favorable exchange rates.
 Selfridges, the department store, is marketing itself as a discount designer store for those paying in dollars or euros. ''This is a very good time for customers from the euro zone, but also from America, to take advantage of the current exchange rates and buy the best fashion at lower prices,'' the chief executive, Paul Kelly, said. 
 The store even published a list comparing prices at its flagship store on Oxford Street in London to those in the United States. A pair of leopard print Dolce & Gabbana shoes, according to Selfridges, would cost London shoppers 38 percent less than in New York, and a Prada handbag would be 23 percent cheaper.
 Richard Dickinson, chief executive of New West End, which is promoting London's theater and shopping district, said he expected 10 million overseas shoppers in London for Christmas, lured by the favorable exchange rate. Virgin Atlantic said demand for flights to London, especially from New York, Boston and Los Angeles, is up 3 percent from last year. 
 The Liberty department store in London has recorded a 30 percent increase in American visitors compared with last year and said it also expected more British shoppers this year. 
 Maureen Hinton, a retail analyst at Verdict Research in London, said the British economy might benefit from visitors attracted by the exchange rate but it would not be enough to compensate for falling sales over all.
 Doug and Beth Feldman from Milwaukee were in London to visit their son Michael, who is studying at a university here, and said the exchange rate was a pleasant surprise but would not encourage them to spend more. 
 ''We heard how expensive London was, but now it's actually quite affordable,'' Mr. Feldman said. He paid $:150 a night, or $230, for a hotel room and bought tickets to the musical ''Chicago'' for $:30 each -- more or less what he would have paid at home. A year ago, the hotel room would have cost him $309 and a theater ticket $62, at the exchange rates prevailing at the time.
 On Oxford Street, three women from Italy compared prices as they stood in front of a window displaying iPods. ''It's definitely much cheaper than in Rome,'' said Anna Illiano, a human resources manager who traveled to London for three days to work but added a day of shopping. ''The discounts are fantastic. I'll be doing some of my Christmas shopping here.''
 The decline in the pound came as Britain entered its first recession in 17 years and investors grew increasingly concerned about the prospects of a recovery amid a widening budget deficit. To revive consumer spending, the government cut the value-added tax this month and announced some support for smaller businesses, but the measures will make Britain the most indebted economy among the Group of 7 industrialized nations. 
 Normally, a weak currency can help support an economy because it makes the price of the country's exports more competitive. But such effects diminish in a widespread downturn, as demand for exports declines. 
 In the British economy, whose growth was fueled by consumers who borrowed more to spend more, the credit crisis is hitting hard. Consumer spending fell 0.2 percent in the third quarter, the most since 1995, and retailers are suffering. Woolworths, a retailer of household goods and children's clothing, and the furniture chain MFI sought administration, which is similar to bankruptcy, on Wednesday. 
 The stores that survive are trying to attract customers with offers common for the days after Christmas but unheard of before the holiday -- including discounts of 25 percent. Some stores are offering their customers breakfast. Marks & Spencer has extended its hours.
 While the falling pound has not resulted in an influx of shoppers for British retailers, it has increased the cost of the goods they import.
 Many clothing retailers moved part of their production to Asian countries whose currencies are tied to the dollar. Argos, a shopping chain whose wares range from furniture to jewelry, told analysts that for every cent the dollar increases against the pound, the company loses about $:4 million in gross profit. 
 ''The biggest issue is import costs,'' Nick Bubb, an analyst at Pali International, said. ''They are hedged out fairly well into next spring and summer, but after that there's a lot of pain.''
 But the weak pound is not all bad news, according to Mr. Dicks, the economist at Royal Bank of Scotland, who said that the drop in the pound helps to even out some economic imbalances.
 ''The weakness of the pound is part of the solution, not the problem,'' he said. ''We are coming out of a decade where we had constant G.D.P. growth, but that trend was not sustainable. We are a much cheaper economy than we used to be, and that is a good thing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH POUND (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (86%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); EURO ZONE (70%); LAYOFFS (68%); TRAVEL AGENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: SELFRIDGES PLC (82%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); LIBERTY PLC (53%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (50%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (53%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1174 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: Maryland Is Turning Pollution Spotlight to Its Huge Poultry Industry

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: WILLARDS, Md. 

 BODY:
Standing before a two-story-tall pile of chicken manure, Lee Richardson pondered how times had changed.
 ''When I left school and started working the land, this stuff was seen as farmer's gold,'' said Mr. Richardson, 38, a fifth-generation chicken grower, explaining that the waste was an ideal fertilizer for the region's sandy soil. ''Now, it's too much of a good thing.''
 How to handle the 650 million pounds of chicken manure produced in the state each year has sparked a fierce debate between environmentalists and the state's powerful poultry industry. State officials hope to bring Maryland in line with most other states next month by enacting new rules for where, how and how long chicken farmers can spread the manure on their fields or store it in outdoor piles. 
 ''We don't let hog or dairy farms spread their waste unregulated, and we wouldn't let a town of 25,000 people dump human manure untreated on open lands,'' said Gerald W. Winegrad, a public policy professor at the University of Maryland who is a former state senator. ''So why should we allow a farm with 150,000 chickens do it?'' 
 As the amount of cropland in Maryland has shrunk and the number of chickens raised has grown to 570 million, these mountains of manure have become a liability because the excess is washing into the Chesapeake Bay, one of the nation's most polluted estuaries, and further worsening the plight of the fishermen who ply its waters. 
 But the chicken farmers say that they are already doing their part to protect the environment and that the proposed regulations come as the industry is reeling from record-high energy and feed prices.
 ''This will absolutely kill anyone coming into the poultry industry,'' Kenny Bounds, a government affairs officer for Mid-Atlantic Farm Credit, said at one of three public hearings in the last month, where farmers objected to the regulations and said they might push some growers out of the state.
 The poultry industry in Maryland, the state's most lucrative form of agriculture and one of its largest employers, has expanded to feed the nation's growing hunger for cheap chicken.
 The lower prices, however, are possible only from huge economies of scale. And the bigger the farms, the more birds and the more manure there are to handle. 
 State officials have started to realize that there are consequences to being able to sell skinless, boneless chicken breast for just over $2 per pound when virtually no other protein source with so little fat is that cheap, Mr. Winegrad said.
 Environmentalists and state officials have also become frustrated that after more than a decade of spending over $100 million a year in state money on restoration efforts, the Chesapeake, unlike most other mid-Atlantic waterways, has only grown more polluted.
 As the phosphorous and nitrogen levels in the bay have grown, so have the algae that deplete oxygen needed by other aquatic life. 
 In the past two decades, working oystermen on the bay have dropped to less than 500, from 6,000. The crab population has fallen by 70 percent. 
 ''A lot of chicken farmers are already doing the right thing when it comes to pollution,'' said Larry Simns, president of the Maryland Watermen's Association, adding that he thought the poultry regulations would be a step in the right direction. ''But there needs to be more done to make sure that everyone does the right thing.''
 Under the state's proposed rules, 75 to 100 of the 800 largest poultry farmers in Maryland would have to apply for permits to handle manure. State officials would also begin inspecting these farms unannounced and levying heavy fines if violations are not eventually corrected. The rules would not affect smaller farms.
 Michele Merkel, a lawyer with the Waterkeeper Alliance, an environmental advocacy group, said the permits did not go far enough. Too few farms would be required to have them, Ms. Merkel said, and they allow farmers to pile the waste in their fields open to the rain for 90 days, while most other states permit it to be uncovered for only 14 days.
 Maryland is most famous for its blue crabs, oysters and watermen, so it has a lot to lose from polluting these waters, Ms. Merkel said. 
 ''That's exactly why it's never made sense to me,'' she said, ''that the state is so unwilling to really regulate one of the bay's biggest polluters.''
 The economic might of the poultry industry is certainly part of the reason.
 Concentrated in Somerset, Wicomico and Worcester Counties along the Eastern Shore, the industry contributes more than $700 million annually to the Maryland economy.
 For every job added on a chicken farm, seven related jobs are created in slaughterhouses, construction and trucking, according to industry estimates. 
 Just inland from the shore, the scope of the farms overwhelms the senses. The 500-foot-long chicken houses stretch from the roadways like airplane hangars.
 Inside each house, 20,000 to 35,000 chickens cramp the floors farther than the eye can see. Feed and water are delivered in automated pipes that stretch the length of the houses.
 Corn and soy fields separate the houses from the roads, and three quarters of the state's crop go toward feeding the birds. 
 Gigantic fans suction ammonia from the birds' waste, filling the air for miles around. 
 Under the proposed regulations, chicken growers would be required to maintain a 35-foot-wide filter strip of vegetation along streams and ditches, or not to apply manure within 50 feet of streams or 10 feet of ditches, and they would be required to keep manure piles more than 100 feet from streams. The permits would also assess fines of up to $32,500 per day if farmers did not correct problems after being told to do so.
 The liability for the manure would fall to the growers who raise the chickens, rather than the larger companies that own the birds, provide the feed and drop off a new batch of chicks every eight weeks. 
 Bill Satterfield, director of the local poultry trade association, Delmarva Poultry Industry Inc., said the farmers were an important engine for the state's economic well-being. 
 ''We're also already doing our part when it comes to the environment,'' Mr. Satterfield said.
 Farmers already work to plant trees and environmental buffers around chicken houses and feed the birds an ingredient to cut down on the phosphorous in their manure. They also recycle some of their manure in the world's largest chicken manure recycling plant, which produces organic fertilizer pellets that can be shipped elsewhere. 
 Storm runoff from urban areas, lawn fertilizers and pollution from cars and sewage treatment plants also play major roles in polluting the bay. But Environmental Protection Agency officials say that agriculture is the largest single source of pollutants and sediment in the Chesapeake Bay, accounting for over 40 percent of the nitrogen and phosphorous and over 70 percent of the sediment. 
 State officials say that animal manure produces more phosphorus and nearly the same amount of nitrogen pollution as all human wastewater from treatment plants in the state. 
 Although the dairy and hog industry in states near the bay produce more pounds of manure, poultry waste has more than twice the concentration of pollutants per pound. Reducing pollution from agriculture is also about a tenth as costly as it is to achieve the same reductions from urban development, state and federal environmental officials say.
 ''The reason to focus on poultry,'' said Tom Simpson, executive director of Water Stewardship, an environmental nonprofit agency, ''is that sewage treatment plants have already been required to reduce their pollution and storm water runoff from cities and large dairy and hog farms have permits that can be used to limit their water pollution.''
 But in the past two decades, the poultry industry has carved a special role for itself in terms of the oversight it receives, and it has twice defeated state efforts to impose permits.
 Maryland is one of the only states where the poultry industry is regulated by the State Department of Agriculture, whose primary mission is helping farmers, and not by the State Department of the Environment, which is charged with enforcing pollution laws.
 Most other states with large poultry farms already require the permits and regular inspections.
 In Maryland, however, chicken farmers have only had to file nutrient management plans with state agriculture officials, describing how they control their chicken waste each year. 
 These documents are not public. The guidelines for manure storage are optional, and the fine for not filing a plan is $350. 
 Standing in front of his pickup truck with a bumper sticker that said ''It's not farmland without farmers,'' Mr. Richardson shook his head in frustration.
 ''As far as I can tell, the current system works fine except a few bad apples,'' he said. ''What they are proposing now is just more cost for us growers and more time doing paperwork.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lee Richardson next to a manure shed on his chicken farm in Willards, Md. Excess poultry manure is washing into the Chesapeake Bay, worsening its condition.
A chicken house on Mr. Richardson's farm. Manure ''was seen as farmer's gold,'' he said. ''Now, it's too much of a good thing.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VERONICA LUKASOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14) CHART: Runoff From Chicken Farms: With Maryland's poultry production among the largest in the nation, excessive levels of phosphorous and nitrogen from chicken manure are polluting the Chesapeake Bay and other waterways. (Sources: Water Stewardship/University of Maryland
 Toxics Targeting (map data))(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL WASTES (92%); POULTRY (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CHICKEN FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); LIVESTOCK FEED (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1175 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Americans Lose the Appetite for Spending

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
AS the holiday shopping season begins, American consumers say they are less interested in consuming than at any other time in the past four decades.
 That negative outlook, brought on by the credit crisis and recession, has led retailers to push sales harder than ever before, hoping to use amazingly low prices on some items to draw customers into their stores. 
 Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, has that name because it is supposed to be the day that gets retailers out of the red ink of losses and into the black ink of profits. But black can also symbolize disaster and mourning, images that may be more appropriate this year.
 In the third quarter of this year, according to revised figures issued by the Commerce Department this week, personal consumption spending, after adjusting for inflation, fell at an annual rate of 2.7 percent, the biggest fall since the second quarter of 1980.
 The depth of that decline was a little misleading, because the second quarter was pumped up by the tax rebates from the stimulus package. But even without the stimulus, the third quarter number would have shown a decline.
 Over all, the economy contracted at a rate of 0.5 percent in the quarter. Most economists say they think the current quarter will be much worse than that.
 One reason for that expectation is a belief that many Americans will keep spending in check during the current holiday season, as many say they will.
 Each month, the Conference Board asks Americans about their plans for purchases of major items over the next six months, and people have never been more reluctant to spend.
 This month, according to preliminary figures released this week and shown in the accompanying chart, just 1.9 percent of the respondents said they planned to buy a house and only 3.7 percent said they expected to buy a car.
 In the more than 40 years that the survey has been conducted, the previous low reading for car purchases was 4.5 percent. 
 Moreover, the survey also asks whether the person plans to buy a new car or a used one, or is not certain. This month only 1.3 percent said they planned to buy a new car, also the lowest ever.
 The home buying figure was not a record low, but it was the lowest since 1982, when interest rates were in double digits amid a deep recession.
 The reasons for concern are obvious, including a declining stock market that has made deep cuts in many retirement plans and a falling real estate market that has left millions of homeowners with mortgage debt in excess of the value of the house. 
 Added to that is worry about jobs. The unemployment rate has been rising, and Bloomberg reports that the median estimate of economists is for a November figure of 6.8 percent, when it is announced at the end of next week. The Conference Board reports that just 8.8 percent of Americans now think jobs are easy to get, the lowest figure in 15 years.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumers Pull Back: Quarterly change in personal consumption expenditures, at annual rate, adjusted for inflation.
Percentage of people saying they plan to buy a house or car in next six months. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis via Haver Analytics
 Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); STATISTICS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); TAX RELIEF (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1176 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: For Separated Families, City Never Seemed Bigger

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
On good days, it takes Marilyn Loesch two hours to get from her home in Queens to the foster care agency on Staten Island where she is expected for weekly visits with her two daughters. On bad days -- when the bus she takes to the subway and the subway she takes to the ferry don't cooperate -- the commute can be three hours.
 ''It's draining,'' she said of the trek to see the girls, ages 12 and 16, who were removed from her care in 1999 after the city found that she had not been sending one of her children to school. ''I'm 51 years old now and not getting any younger.'' 
 Ms. Loesch is one of hundreds of parents who crisscross New York City to make required visits in the hope of reuniting with children living in foster homes, despite a promise by the Administration for Children's Services to try to place children close to home. 
 Seven years after the city set a goal of having at least three-quarters of foster children housed near their parents, only 11 percent of the 2,791 children who were placed in foster homes this year through September were kept in their home community districts, as the agency refers to its 59 zones. (That statistic does not include kinship placement, in which children are sent to live with a relative, family friend or even a coach, often in another neighborhood.)
 The geographic obstacles are not always the result of too few foster homes in the neighborhoods where children are most commonly removed from their homes. In fact, a report this summer in Child Welfare Watch, a policy journal, showed that while scores of parents had to travel long distances to see their children, there were closer foster homes that were being filled by children from other districts. 
 Mott Haven, a community district in the Bronx, was a vivid illustration of what the report called a ''relentless mismatch.'' Of the 351 children entering foster care from Mott Haven in 2006, 37 stayed in the community. Conversely, of the 224 children who were placed in Mott Haven that year, more than half came from other districts in the Bronx, and more than a quarter came from outside the borough.
 ''There's this crazy flow that seems illogical,'' said Andrew White, director of the Center for New York City Affairs at the New School, which publishes Child Welfare Watch along with the Center for an Urban Future. ''If you don't have enough good foster homes, you don't have a system that allows you to step back and select the right home.''
 Keeping broken families in close proximity may seem an odd priority given the negligence or abuse that drove them apart. But city officials and child-welfare advocates agree that staying in the same neighborhood limits the disruption for foster children by keeping them close to relatives, teachers and friends at a traumatic point in their lives. Moreover, most parents eventually reunite with their children, a process that is helped by regular visits, along with counseling and classes.
 The city's struggle to meet its own goals has been complicated by a shortage of foster homes and the rapid-fire nature of placement decisions.
 While there may be plenty of foster homes in a community district, they may not be available when needed. And city officials say geography is not the sole factor in choosing a home. Caseworkers might look beyond a child's neighborhood or borough to keep siblings together or to find a ''therapeutic'' foster home with extra support services. In recent months, social workers have sought to move more older -- and therefore harder to place -- teenagers out of institutional care and into foster homes.
 ''The biggest problem is, it's an emergency placement system,'' said James F. Purcell, executive director of the Council of Family and Child Caring Agencies, which represents foster care agencies that contract with the city. ''These are not planned placements. A.C.S. is picking up a child and looking for a home, like, tonight. That's a systemic impediment.''
 The Administration for Children's Services commissioner, John B. Mattingly, said the key to solving the geography problem was recruiting more foster families so there could be enough of a cushion to accommodate geography in placements. ''If you have sufficient families,'' he said, ''you can pause.'' 
 Foster care officials say rising real estate values and, more recently, the weakening economy have meant that fewer families have time or space to spare. ''I don't know of any agency out there not working twice as hard to get half as many foster families as we did 10 years ago,'' said Gerard McCaffery, chief executive officer of MercyFirst, a comprehensive child-welfare agency.
 Mr. Mattingly said the city had made better headway on kinship placement. ''We've done relatives well, but neighborhoods less well,'' he said.
 Children put in foster care in their own neighborhoods rose steadily to 23 percent in 2004 from 4.9 percent in 1998, before dropping to 13.4 percent in 2007, according to the city agency. 
 Keeping children in a given borough has proved easier: 76 percent of children placed in foster homes in 2005 were in the same borough as their parents, up from 30 percent in 1998, city data shows. Last year, the figure fell to 66 percent, a decline city officials attributed to the difficulty of locating homes after the beating death of 7-year-old Nixzmary Brown in 2006. 
 Sharman Stein, a spokeswoman for the Administration for Children's Services, said that when parents and children are far apart, foster care agencies do what they can to bridge the gap, subsidizing transportation costs and allowing night and weekend visits. The New York State Office of Children and Family Services requires two hours of visitation between parents and their children every other week in order to consider reuniting; the city agency recommends at least two hours every week, and family court judges often spell out more specifics, perhaps recommending five hours every Saturday. 
 While it is rare for foster children to be placed outside the city, some parents have found themselves commuting to Long Island for visits. ''Sometimes the child's needs are such that the best and necessary placement is in a home with a family who has received specialized training to meet the child's special mental health, physical or educational needs,'' Ms. Stein explained.
 And Michael Arsham, executive director of the Child Welfare Organizing Project, a self-help group for parents, said teenagers who needed to disengage from gang activity were often best off placed outside their neighborhoods. But Mr. Arsham said local placements ''should be the default setting'' for most cases, and he and other advocates say that distance has put an undue strain on these troubled families. The commute can be especially hard for parents who are destitute, disabled or both.
 Robin Wiley, a volunteer at the Child Welfare Organizing Project, still has painful memories of the trip from her home in Harlem to Staten Island, where two of her children were in foster care, in the early 1990s. They were removed, she said, because of her drug addiction, which she has since conquered.
 ''I took a subway to the ferry and then a bus to the foster care agency,'' she recalled. ''It was a three-hour trip because I was on crutches and couldn't walk very fast.''
 Lynne Miller, a parent advocate for the Seamen's Society for Children and Families, the foster care agency on Staten Island that monitors Ms. Loesch's children, said that such distances can affect the quality of the visits, as well as the already fragile parent-child relationship. ''The parents are exhausted by the time they get there, especially the longer and harder they have to travel,'' she said. ''The farther the parents are from where the child is being kept in foster care, the harder it is to make the bond connect.''
 Mr. Arsham said city officials should use the Children's Center, an emergency intake shelter, to buy time until they can find neighborhood placements. ''The Children's Center was never intended to be a long-term residential facility, but neither is a foster home,'' he said. ''If there's a decision point early in the life of the case where you sacrifice a day or two in the Children's Center in order to make a longer-term placement in the their home community, then I think it's very well worth it.''
 But Richard Altman, chief executive officer of the Jewish Child Care Association of New York, a foster care agency, disagreed, saying: ''I think any placement at the Children's Center is traumatic and any move is traumatic.''
 Anita and Ronald Crosby, whose four children, now ages 1 to 6, were removed last fall after a charge of child endangerment, are unaware of such debates. They just know that seeing their children, who are in foster care on Long Island, is an ordeal. The couple, who live in the Bronx, have visits at a foster care office in Queens; their fifth child, born this month, was also placed with a family in Queens. 
 ''We take three buses to see them,'' said Mrs. Crosby, 31, who said she spent 14 days in jail after two of her children climbed out a window and down a fire escape while they were unattended. ''It takes us two hours to get there.''
 If they lived closer, Mrs. Crosby, added, the children would ''be attached to their parents instead of the foster people.'' 
 Then she noted: ''They call the foster mother 'Mommy' and the foster father 'Daddy.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anita and Ronald Crosby had a weekend visit in their Bronx home from four of their five children, who have been placed in a foster home on Long Island.
To visit their children, the Crosbys must make a two-hour commute on three buses from their apartment in the Bronx to a foster care office in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18)
Bernadette Blount, left, and Robin Wiley are advocates at the Child Welfare Organizing Project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) CHART: Far From Home: Foster care placements are rarely made in or near a child's home neighborhood. (Sources: N.Y.C. Administration for Child Services
 Census)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (93%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CITIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1177 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Dims, Crate and Barrel Stays Upbeat

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
CRATE AND BARREL was founded in 1962 by Gordon and Carole Segal, a husband and wife, as a place to sell contemporary housewares directly from European factories and artists' workshops. What began as one store in Chicago with one employee is now a 163-store chain with more than 7,000 employees. 
 Barbara Turf, who has worked full time for Crate and Barrel since 1968, holding a variety of sales, merchandising and marketing positions, was named president in 1996, and succeeded Mr. Segal as chief executive in May. The company opened its first store outside the United States, in Toronto, in September. 
 The chain has been owned by a German mail order company, the Otto Group, since 1998. It has been profitable since its founding and had sales of $1.3 billion last year. 
 But Crate and Barrel now faces one of the most challenging retail environments in years. Mrs. Turf discussed its furniture sales and prospects for the holiday season in a recent telephone interview.
 Q.How has the financial crisis affected your business?
 A. October was the worst decline in several years, for sure. With the housing foreclosures, furniture is going to become a little bit more challenging for the consumer. We're definitely encouraging the home decor accessory part of the business, and you see it definitely trending up a bit -- pillows, rugs, vases, mirrors. I think people want to spruce up their house for the holidays. And of course we're a terrific gift store as well.
 Q.Is furniture selling now at all or have those sales practically stopped?
 A. We're still selling furniture, definitely. 
 Q.What kinds of things are selling better than others?
 A. Anything storage-related and multifunctional -- a desk that can be a console table or a sideboard that hides clutter -- is selling really, really well. People are downsizing a little bit in the scale sense. Bedding and the Jackson Bedroom Collection are selling very, very well. Some of our sofas are still selling extremely well. We had a $999 price point in our catalog on a beautiful sofa, so I think people are still responding to value price points like that. 
 Q.Why are these items selling well now?
 A. I think people are thinking carefully of how they spend their money, much more practical and pragmatic in their approach. So something multifunctional that could be a desk or a console table is very intriguing to a person, particularly in smaller apartments and places. Storage is key because everyone is trending toward an uncluttered, more simple, focused look. I think we have an incredible selection of beds for value. We have a queen bed that is selling like crazy at $899. 
 Q.Could you tell me more about your value-oriented strategy?
 A. We've always been value-oriented about our products, particularly in New York. When we came there, people couldn't believe our prices were so inexpensive in comparison to our competition. In the '90s as people were spending more money, maybe we raised the bar a little bit. But now we've pulled back to becoming more casual, a little bit easier to live with, more affordable in a sense of easy living, real-life living. I think we've positioned ourselves to be much more simple in choice as we head to the next couple of years.
 Q.Who do you consider to be your main competitors?
 A. In furniture it's different than it is in housewares. If I were looking downstairs, Bed, Bath & Beyond or Williams-Sonoma. If I go upstairs to furniture, local furniture stores, Ethan Allen, probably Pottery Barn, Bloomingdale's Home. And even though it doesn't look like us in any way shape or form, I think even Target can be a competitor of ours.
 Q.When will the company expand outside of North America?
 A. If you had asked me this two months ago, I would have answered two or three years. But now everything is so uncertain. I think we have to proceed very cautiously right now. In the next 10 years, we will have international stores beyond Canada.
 Q.What is the breakdown of your store, catalog and online sales?
 A. Approximately 25 percent of total sales are from the catalog and online, 75 percent from stores.
 Q.Do you want that ratio to change?
 A. The more you can encourage direct marketing sales, the better that ratio is for retailers today. Direct marketing has upside potential, the way consumers are changing their buying habits. More and more people are getting used to buying on the Internet.
 Q.Are you creating things for people's tighter pocketbooks?
 A. Things are coming down in China, commissions are coming down because everybody wants to stay in business. So we're getting better price points that we can pass on to the consumer next year. A lot of our furniture from China, anything steel is dropping, some of our office furniture. That's all coming down in prices.
 Q.How do you envision your holiday sales this year?
 A. Seriously, I think we are really healthily positioned, staying competitive by offering free shipping for $100 in catalog or online sales. We've put a 15 percent discount to our best customers in a postcard to get into the store and buy products. 
 Q.Are you on track to be profitable again this year?
 A. Yes, we are on track to be profitable, certainly not the profits of the past. The difficulties started really in September, October. So we were having a pretty good year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BARBARA TURF (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES OSGOOD/CHICAGO TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); FURNITURE STORES (88%); RETAILERS (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); FORECLOSURE (66%); INTERIOR DECORATING (53%)

COMPANY: OTTO GMBH & CO KG (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (70%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1178 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Despite Pledge, Senate Democrats May Skip Gay Marriage Vote in '09

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
After a pledge from New York Democratic leaders that their party would legalize same-sex marriage if they won control of the State Senate this year, money from gay rights supporters poured in from across the country, helping cinch a Democratic victory.
 But now, party leaders have sent strong signals that they may not take up the issue during the 2009 legislative session. Some of them suggest it may be wise to wait until 2011 before considering it, in hopes that Democrats can pick up more Senate seats and Gov. David A. Paterson, a strong backer of gay rights, would then be safely into a second term.
 The question of how aggressively to proceed has touched off an intense debate among legislators and gay rights supporters about how ready the broader electorate is to embrace same-sex marriage, both in New York and across the country.
 Many are still stung by California voters' approval this month of a measure that reversed a court decision that gave gay and lesbian couples the right to marry. Heavy spending by church groups and others opposed to same-sex marriage helped the proposal win. 
 ''We want to get there, but we want to get there the right way or else we risk setting ourselves back another decade,'' said Senator Liz Krueger, a Democrat who represents the Upper East Side. ''I think the California proposition and the recognition that entities with large amounts of money who oppose same-sex marriage have decided to be large players in this have a lot of people going back to the drawing board.''
 In addition, shoring up the state's depleted treasury and repairing the economy have become the most pressing issues for Albany lawmakers, who return to the capital in January to face a reconfigured landscape. Democrats hold a majority of seats in both chambers of the Legislature, along with the governor's office, for the first time since the 1930s.
 Some Democrats are not even confident they have the 32 votes necessary to pass a same-sex marriage bill in the Senate.
 The Democratic-led Assembly passed the measure last year by a sizable margin, but the Republican-controlled Senate declined to bring it to the floor for a vote. 
 And with a messy fight under way over who should be Senate majority leader -- a fight threatening to fracture the thin Democratic Senate majority -- even typically outspoken supporters of gay rights have become more measured about the issue.
 Internally, the debate has created two camps among lawmakers who back the bill -- with one group saying a vote should happen as early as possible in 2009, and another camp arguing for an indefinite delay. But delaying it could upset some advocates of same-sex marriage, who poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into State Senate races this year.
 ''Since when are fixing the economy and civil rights mutually exclusive?'' said Daniel J. O'Donnell, an assemblyman from the Upper West Side who led the push for the bill in the Assembly. 
 Mr. O'Donnell added that expectations are high in the gay community that New York will be able to deliver the movement's next victory. ''The leadership of the Senate and others in our community collected a lot of money from a lot of people with the promise -- spoken and unspoken -- that if the Democrats won the Senate, they would take a vote,'' he said.
 Mr. O'Donnell plans to introduce a bill relatively early in the 2009 session, setting up a possible confrontation with the Senate.
 Senator Thomas K. Duane, the Senate's leading advocate on gay and lesbian issues, said the odds of a vote reaching the Senate floor in the 2009 legislative session are 50-50.
 ''I can't even imagine before the budget's done that we would do anything,'' Mr. Duane said. The Legislature is required to pass its budget before the state's fiscal year begins on April 1. 
 But even once the budget is passed, Mr. Duane said, other factors will have to be weighed, like whether the timing is too politically risky for the governor.
 ''We definitely want David Paterson to run for re-election and to win,'' he said. ''There'll be a discussion. And we'll have a point of view about time frame; he'll have a point of view on time frame.''
 People with knowledge of Governor Paterson's position on gay marriage said the governor is wary of making a big push for the bill as the Senate leadership remains in flux. 
 Despite the fact that Democrats will hold 32 of the 62 Senate seats in the next legislative session, three dissident Democrats have not pledged their support for the would-be majority leader, Malcolm A. Smith. One of those senators, Ruben Diaz Sr., has specifically said he would not support a majority leader who would allow a same-sex marriage bill to come to the floor.
 With that threat looming, Mr. Smith, Mr. Paterson and other supporters of the bill have been more measured in their comments in recent weeks.
 Mr. Smith, speaking about same-sex marriage at a fund-raiser for the Empire State Pride Agenda last year, was emphatic, saying, ''We're going to make sure that happens in '08, when we take over the majority.'' He now avoids questions on the topic and instead gives a standard reply about the need to focus on the economy when asked about it.
 Asked about when Mr. Paterson would like to see the Senate vote, the governor's communications director, Risa B. Heller, said, ''For now and the immediate future we are focused on the state's fiscal situation.''
 The Empire State Pride Agenda, an organization known for aggressively pursuing news media attention, said through a spokesman that it was in a ''quiet period'' and would not respond to questions.
 Some Democrats are mulling whether the Senate should wait to hold a vote on the bill until after the 2010 elections. That would prevent Republicans from being able to use gay marriage as an issue against Mr. Paterson in socially conservative areas of the state or against Democratic Senate incumbents.
 Those opposed to waiting pointed out that similar predictions of a backlash after the Assembly passed its gay marriage bill last year proved false. None of the Assembly members who voted for the bill and ran for re-election were defeated.
 Some see an opportunity to move a bill in the Senate toward the end of the 2009 session if a handful of Republican senators suddenly retire -- which many politicians in Albany believe to be a distinct possibility if Democrats secure their control of the majority.
 Even those who think it is wiser to wait said they will wait only so long.
 ''No one is waiting for a very long time,'' Mr. Duane said. ''And I'm not that patient a person.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We want to get there, but we want to get there the right way or else we risk setting ourselves back another decade.'' SENATOR LIZ KRUEGER (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); MARRIAGE (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LGBT RIGHTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); COHABITATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (53%); RELIGION (52%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1179 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: How an Angel Came to Cultivate Martha Clarke's 'Garden'

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
How did the choreographer and director Martha Clarke describe the harrowing process of reviving her dance masterwork ''Garden of Earthly Delights''? 
 She got down on all fours with a napkin in her hand and began scrubbing the square floor tiles. ''This is what my life has been like,'' said Ms. Clarke, wearing jeans and a garnet-red sweater with lipstick to match. 
 ''She has holes in her knees,'' Jane Greenwood, Ms. Clarke's friend and longtime costume designer, called out. The two women were sitting in Ms. Greenwood's large ground-floor kitchen in Chelsea, uptown from the Minetta Lane Theater in Greenwich Village, where a matinee of ''Garden'' had just ended. The show had a triumphant opening last week after being absent from New York's stages for more than 20 years, but now the creators are explaining how it came a hair's breadth from not happening at all.
 The economy has dropped faster than a falling angel, and investors for live performances are growing ever more scarce. But what Ms. Clarke's nearly-four-year fund-raising experience demonstrates is how difficult finding a producer can be even in the best of times. 
 The idea of reviving ''Garden,'' a dance-theater work that Ms. Clarke conceived in the early 1980s based on the phantasmagorical triptych painted by Hieronymus Bosch, came from an offhand comment made by one of the original dancers, Rob Besserer. In 2005 he visited the arts center in Midtown that Mikhail Baryshnikov was developing and was captivated by the theater's soaring space. Take a look, he told Ms. Clarke. Imagine the aerial twists, spins and glides during the scenes in Paradise and in Hell. 
 Alan Schuster, who had produced a 1987 revival at the Minetta Lane and was originally a partner in the center, 37 Arts, loved the idea of performing ''Garden'' at the building's grand opening in the fall of 2005. Ms. Clarke put together a company and crew. But 10 days before rehearsals were to start, Ms. Clarke said, Mr. Schuster told her that the center's construction was still unfinished and that he had no money to spare for ''Garden.'' 
 The project floated in limbo for more than year before Charles Reinhart, the director of the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., suggested that perhaps the National Endowment for the Arts would award the festival a grant to stage ''Garden''; the piece could open the festival as a work in progress in June 2007, and New York producers could see it. 
 The grant came through, as did a $50,000 donation from American Express, but raising the rest of the money for her reimagined work was not as easy. She spoke to every producer she could think of. 
 ''They said you need a rock score, they said you need a big-name composer, they said to do it naked,'' Ms. Clarke said. ''I was calling and begging and weeping. We had no money for costumes. I asked people to become a $1,000 benefactor and pay for a nude suit like it was a seat with your name on it at the Met,'' she said, referring to the skin-hugging, flesh-tone bodysuits.
 Fortunately Ms. Greenwood at least had some of the other costumes from the original production in two suitcases in her basement. They had been through 500 performances and a basement flood but had survived. As for props, she had some stashed there as well, including a large weathered piece of driftwood that resembled a bull's head. 
 The rest of the props -- twisting tree branches that serve as demon tails and longer branches that double as boat oars and weapons -- were scavenged from Ms. Clarke's garden. Enough money was scraped together, and four performances were planned. But it turned out that the Durham festival coincided with that year's Tony awards. Hardly any New York producers came -- except Mr. Schuster. 
 He was still interested and said he would find partners to co-produce the show at the Minetta Lane. Martin Davis, a friend of one of the dancers, offered to help.
 The plan was for the company to appear at Two River Theater in Red Bank, N.J., during the first two weeks in September and then move to New York. The New York production, scheduled to open Oct. 21, would cost about $800,000, Ms. Clarke said; they needed $650,000 in hand to start rehearsals. 
 As September wound down, and the company finished performing at Two River, Mr. Schuster called again, this time with bad news. One by one, producers had dropped out. ''He had great hopes, but he said he was unable to pony up,'' Ms. Clarke said. ''He just couldn't find the money.''
 The dancers reluctantly warned they would have to drop out and get other jobs. Ms. Clarke's son, David Grausman, a jazz musician, and Mr. Davis offered to take out a bank loan. But by then the economy was spiraling out of control. 
 So Ms. Clarke returned to the phone, desperately seeking a theatrical angel. On Tuesday, Sept. 30, Ms. Clarke recalled, Margaret Cotter, the Minetta Lane's owner, telephoned and told her she couldn't afford to keep the theater on reserve any longer without a definite commitment. ''She said I had till noon tomorrow, '' Ms. Clarke said.
 But that day was Rosh Hashanah. ''It's the Jewish holiday, no one is going to answer tonight. You've got to give me until Friday,'' Ms. Clarke begged. ''I was in tears. I started taking Xanax.''
 As the deadline approached, Ms. Cotter suggested she try Rhoda Herrick, a producer Ms. Cotter had heard of but did not know.
 ''It was 4 p.m. on Friday, and I said to myself, 'This is the last phone call I'm going to make,' '' Ms. Clarke recalled. She punched in the numbers and said, ''Is Rhonda there?''
 ''Rhoda,'' Ms. Herrick corrected. 
 ''I said, 'Margaret Cotter gave me your number,' '' Ms. Clarke said, ''and she said, 'Who's Margaret Cotter?' ''
 Ms. Clarke identified herself. ''Are you by chance the Martha Clarke?'' Ms. Herrick asked. As it turned out, Ms. Herrick, who is president of the Herrick Theater Foundation, is a huge fan. 
 ''She sounded as if she were desperate,'' Ms. Herrick recalled. ''How much?'' she asked Ms. Clarke.
 Not wanting to scare her off, Ms. Clarke said, ''$200,000.'' 
 ''O.K.,'' Ms. Herrick said. Normally, Ms. Herrick said, she would never just say yes without examining a project thoroughly. ''It was a very, very unusual thing, I only considered it because of Martha.'' 
 As for Ms. Clarke, Ms. Herrick said, ''I thought she was going to go crazy on the phone.''
 The next evening Ms. Clarke cooked a roast chicken at her home in northwest Connecticut and had Ms. Herrick over for dinner. Two days later, on Monday night, Ms. Herrick asked how much was in the bank. The answer: $15,000. There was a pause. ''I can't do it,'' Ms. Herrick told Ms. Clarke. 
 But Ms. Clarke wasn't about to give up. She had some pledges, including $75,000 from the producer Michael David; her son and Mr. Davis were willing to put in money; and Barbara Foy, whose company was handling the aerial feats, had donated money and in-kind work. Ms. Herrick also ended up contributing substantially more than her initial commitment.
 Ten days later the company was on the stage of the Minetta Lane rehearsing. After the debut performance on Nov. 19, the cast and crew went across the street to a Mexican restaurant to celebrate. At about 10:30 p.m. the show's general manager started checking her iPhone for the review from The New York Times. 
 ''This singular work of dance theater is without doubt one of the most eerily hypnotic spectacles of flesh in motion ever put on a New York stage,'' she read aloud, quoting Charles Isherwood.
 ''We were speechless,'' Ms. Herrick said. Regardless of whether the show earns back its investment, she said, she is glad to be involved: ''You stretch for something this magnificent.'' 
 Ms. Clarke said: ''Rhoda Herrick came like a genie in a bottle, after four years of bloodied knees and scratched elbows. In this economic disaster, that this woman had the interest and ability to give this piece a life -- it's kind of like a fairy tale. I pinched myself that I had somebody who believed in the project.'' 
 Ms. Greenwood piped up, ''That's why they call them angels.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The choreographer and director Martha Clarke, left, and the costume designer Jane Greenwood, collaborators on ''Garden.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A scene from Martha Clarke's ''Garden of Earthly Delights,'' at the Minetta Lane Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); DANCE (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (87%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); DANCERS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (70%); FASHION DESIGNERS (55%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Garden of Earthly Delights (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1180 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: We're Doing Fine in Downturn, City's Private Schools Reassure Parents

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU and ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
Wall Street is down, but the paddles were up, up, up at an auction at Cipriani this month that raised more than $500,000 for the Trevor Day School from parents and friends, off about 15 percent from last year's record haul. 
 The day after the auction, Pam Clarke, Trevor's head of school, sent out a letter reassuring parents that Trevor, a Manhattan private school with a relatively small endowment of $10.6 million, remained in ''sound shape financially'' because of careful spending and committed fund-raising. ''We wanted to let people know that we're concerned, we're paying attention, and we're careful with our resources and theirs,'' Ms. Clarke said in an interview.
 Dalton, Ethical Culture Fieldston, Packer Collegiate Institute and the Calhoun School have also sent out letters attesting to their financial health in recent weeks. At least three other private schools -- Trinity, Columbia Grammar and Preparatory, and St. Ann's -- have issued similar letters, while other schools have relied on parent association meetings and word of mouth to get out the message that it is business as usual despite uncertain economic times. 
 ''We're not experiencing any signs of impact from the economic downturn,'' said Steve Nelson, head of school at Calhoun, though he added, ''That's not to say that we won't.''
 Private schools across New York City say they are thriving this fall, with record numbers of applicants and no significant decline in donations. Yet almost daily, even brand-name schools are finding that they have to reassure jittery parents about shrinking endowments and dispel rumors that requests for financial aid are pouring in, and that economically squeezed families are pulling their children out and enrolling them in public schools. 
 Trinity's interim head of school, Suellyn P. Scull, issued a letter taking issue with recent news reports that 45 families had given notice that they were leaving. Trinity, among the most competitive schools in the city, received 698 applications for the 60 kindergarten spots in this year's class. 
 The school is not yet releasing admission numbers for next year's class, but Ms. Scull wrote, ''This year's admissions season has been perhaps busier than usual, and to date we have had no reports of families planning to leave us.''
 But the shrinking economy is taking a toll on investment returns at Trinity, whose endowment has fallen to $40 million from $50 million in July, and at other private schools, affecting what they can spend on programs and activities. ''There's no way of escaping it,'' said Lawrence Buttenwieser, a former trustee at Dalton. ''If it happens at Harvard, it will happen to everybody.'' 
 Many private schools say they are budgeting conservatively for next year and taking steps to offset any lost revenue from investments and the possibility of donor fatigue. In a letter released on Nov. 17, Dalton's head of school, Ellen C. Stein, and Robert Kasdin, president of the board, wrote that while the school remained in ''a position of strength,'' mostly because it has no mortgages or other debt and fund-raising remains strong, it is ''targeting efficiencies where possible'' and ''reviewing all capital expenditures.''
 Dalton's Web site refers to a $58 million endowment, but attaches no date to that figure. School officials will say only that its investment funds are down less than the market this year. Public records show that Dalton was heavily invested in hedge funds as of June 30, 2007, the most recent date available, with about half of its financial assets in six funds. That roster includes several funds that have gotten stung in recent months, like TPG-Axon and Greenlight Capital Offshore. 
 School officials say the school shed its stake in a seventh fund, Amaranth, before the fund collapsed in September 2006.
 Just south of Union Square, the Grace Church School, which has a $17 million endowment, expects to draw about $400,000 from those funds next year -- a drop of about $100,000 -- to support school activities. George P. Davison, the head of school, said he hopes to make up the shortfall in part by postponing the purchase of computers and desks, by patching a school roof instead of replacing it, and by lowering energy bills. 
 His school has also had to cope with fluctuating interest rates on $20 million it borrowed two years ago to improve its campus. Every Wednesday, the rate -- and what his school must pay -- resets depending on the vagaries of the London Interbank Offered Rate. ''We went up and then we went down,'' he said. ''It got to 8.2 percent, but in the summer it was 1.6 percent. Now it's 3.3 percent.'' 
 Even with less money coming in and costs uncertain, several leading schools say they want to increase financial aid to students. Mark Stanek, head of the Ethical Culture Fieldston School, which gave out $8.1 million in financial aid this year, wrote to parents on Nov. 14 that the school was ''hoping to maintain, and if possible, expand this budget over the next few years.''
 Since then, a handful of families have come forward to request aid from the school, which has campuses on Central Park West and in the Bronx.
 Columbia Grammar and Preparatory, whose $25 million endowment is invested in United States Treasury securities, also plans to expand its financial aid by about $500,000 next year, to nearly $5 million. 
 Richard J. Soghoian, headmaster of the Upper West Side school, sent out a letter last month reaffirming that the school was moving ahead with a $2 million renovation of a brownstone to create art and music classes. But to avoid placing added financial stress on families, he said, the school canceled its annual phone-athon, in which parents solicit donations from one another. 
 Trevor Day, with campuses on the East and West Sides, also started a $25 million campaign this fall to build a new middle and high school. Dr. Pamela Wilson, a dentist whose daughter attends second grade at Trevor, said she was glad to see her school's letter because she had grown a bit concerned about its finances, given the uncertain economy. ''Trevor's letter arrived before concern became worry and the momentum of the worry took hold,'' she said. ''The letter was very well timed.''
 As much as schools want to extend aid to keep hard-hit families in the fold, they say the policy might have to be revisited if markets continue to falter and take jobs with them.
 Mr. Davison, who also heads the Guild of Independent Schools in New York, warned: ''It's Wall Street that worries us in New York City. If all these financial jobs move to London, we're in trouble.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CHILDREN (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1181 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Alma Mater Is Asking. Do You Give or Not Give?

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
In a more normal year, the alumni fund-raising plea that turns up in the mail right about now seems perfectly in tune as the day for thanks gives way to a month of giving. 
 But this year is different. Huge numbers of people have lost their homes to foreclosure. Unemployment is on the rise. And a good chunk of the United States automobile industry could wither away within months, taking hundreds of thousands of middle-class jobs with it. 
 Against the real likelihood of financial doom for so many people, it feels almost unseemly to consider a donation to a college or university. Surely there must be a food bank or job retraining program that is more deserving. 
 We don't yet know how, or if, giving patterns will change in this recession. Plenty of people are in no position to give at all. Many others should probably build an emergency fund for themselves before handing out money. 
 But for everyone else, this year's giving season is an exercise in a different sort of asset allocation than the one we're used to for our retirement accounts. It's about competing demands, the rising need to pay for basic human services in our communities versus the emotional pull from the educational institutions that helped shape us. 
 At first glance, it seems as if acute need for food and shelter ought to win out. But like a growing number of people, I owe my college degree in part to a generous helping of scholarship assistance.
 That raises a tricky question: What precisely do we owe our alma maters at a time like this? This week, I went back to school in search of an answer. 
 Amherst College, in Massachusetts, is, like most colleges and universities, unique in the eyes of those who spent four years there. The predicament its fund-raisers find themselves in now, however, is similar to that at scores of selective colleges and universities.
 The Amherst endowment, which stood at $1.7 billion at the end of June, lost about a quarter of its value over the next four months. The families of its students suddenly need more financial aid because of the economic downturn. And now the college is turning to its alumni for help, at the very moment that many of them are experiencing their own catastrophic financial losses. 
 ''We have a history of being countercyclical,'' Anthony W. Marx, Amherst's president, said when I spoke to him in his office this week. ''In effect, that's what we're in business to do. We know the cost of the commitment to enroll the very best students goes up'' when their ability to pay declines.
 In fact, in what is either a sign of stunning confidence or utter foolishness, Amherst last month announced its intent to raise $425 million to support a number of initiatives.
 So how does an institution like Amherst with an endowment that's still well above $1 billion make a pitch that it's needy, or at least equal in worth to other causes that lack any endowment, at a time like this? 
 Amherst's new capital campaign is built around ''Lives of consequence,'' the idea that a contribution to a liberal arts college helps develop the leaders of tomorrow. ''It's a pretty nuanced argument, not an elevator speech,'' Brian Conway, a private equity executive who is a chairman of the campaign, said. ''With a food bank, you know someone will get fed on Thursday.''
 Mr. Marx said he was reluctant to pit Amherst against other nonprofit institutions. ''But we try to be clear about why this is a social investment with a significant multiplying effect, though it takes a generation to see that effect,'' he said. 
 The campaign does place special emphasis on financial aid, and for potential donors to any college, that may be the most visceral appeal right now. Amherst is among a shrinking number of colleges that admit students regardless of their financial need and then meet all of that demonstrated need for everyone who enrolls. Its average scholarship award is more than $30,000 a year. Tuition, room and board for the 2008-9 academic year is $46,760. 
 ''The idea that some families might lose their homes but their kids won't lose access to an Amherst education, that makes our case,'' Megan Morey, Amherst's chief advancement officer, said. ''Asking for money is even more compelling than it was before, when our endowment was growing at a wonderful rate.'' For the five years before June 30, the endowment had grown at an annualized rate of 17.3 percent. 
 That sort of pitch would seem to be all the more appealing at colleges that do not have hefty endowments. The problem is that many universities don't let contributors direct their donations specifically to financial aid, let alone to a specific program or groups of students.
 This is a huge disappointment at a time when a growing number of nonprofit groups are allowing individual donors with modest amounts of money to pinpoint the recipient of their contributions. 
 On DonorsChoose, which supports public schools, teachers post specific needs for their classrooms at DonorsChoose.org. Then, contributors can pick options like giving drums to a class in New York City or construction paper to students in an art class in Northern California. I've received thank-you notes from students and teachers, and pictures of the students using the materials purchased with my family's donation. The sense of connection and satisfaction as a donor is sky high with this option.
 Charles Best, founder of DonorsChoose, said that several colleges and universities had looked into replicating this model, but none had tried it yet, to his knowledge. Doing so would require investments in new infrastructure and careful planning to avoid tax issues involving direct transfers of gifts to individuals. 
 But it would also require a change in mind-set.
 ''We're pretty traditional,'' Ms. Morey of Amherst said. ''For a long time, we didn't even want people to know which students were on financial aid. I think at places where philanthropy has been part of the culture for so many generations, we need to catch up and seize opportunities that more hungry and innovative institutions have been forced to use.''
 James M. Langley, the vice president for advancement at Georgetown University, said: ''Schools need to start acting like a cause and stop acting like an institution. They need to learn lessons from the Obama campaign, which had a powerful and unifying message that made people feel like they wanted to be a part of it.''
 Once a college opens the door to microcauses and the restricted gifts that come with them, however, it loses a fair bit of control. ''I think there's a lot of power to that model, but you can still make stupid investments that way,'' Mr. Marx of Amherst said. ''Our alumni respect the judgments we've made about priorities.''
 Those who don't care for their alma mater's priorities but lack the money to endow their own scholarships can always volunteer or start an alumni group and make an imprint that way. You can offer a spare room to a student who might not otherwise be able to afford to take a summer internship in your community. Or hire the student yourself, or mentor a handful each year. This, too, is part of the Amherst campaign, an appeal to what the college refers to as its living endowment. 
 To me, the best pitch of all would invoke a specific debt. Universities tend not to remind alumni of the precise sum of their four or more years of scholarships. It would look too much like a bill. But I should be able to request that information, in today's dollars, if I want to try to make it up and then some over my lifetime.
 Though I don't yet have as much control over my modest donation as I would like, I still intend to allocate the same percentage of my giving this year to my high school and college as I have in years past. And I think that every other former scholarship student has the same obligation to throw the rope back for others. 
 Do the schools want to state it this bluntly? Mr. Marx grew silent when I asked him this. He finally offered up the fact that even the full tuition charges do not come close to the costs for each student of running a college like Amherst. ''I think every student, in that sense, is on financial aid,'' he said. 
 Ms. Morey added, ''I think one has more of a responsibility to be philanthropic in some way in their life'' if they received aid from their college. ''When I meet people who feel like they don't want to support Amherst, I walk away just hoping that they're giving to something. They were given an opportunity because of somebody else's generosity, and it's nice to think that's going around and around.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ALUMNI (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); RECESSION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1182 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Shopping Frenzy Takes Ugly Turn On Black Friday

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM; Michael M. Grynbaum, Christopher Maag, Karen Ann Cullotta, Claire Cain Miller, Melanie Carroll and Liz Robbins contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In a sign of consumer desperation amid a bleak economy, the annual rite of retailing known as Black Friday turned chaotic and even deadly, as predawn shoppers scrambled for holiday bargains. 
 A Wal-Mart worker on Long Island died after being trampled by customers who broke through the doors early Friday. And fights and injuries occurred around the country at some other stores operated by Wal-Mart, the nation's leading discount chain, which is one of the few retailers thriving in the current economy. 
 Despite those outbreaks, many other retailers appeared to have fewer customers than usual the day after Thanksgiving, which is typically one of the busiest shopping days of the year. Merchants call it Black Friday because in the past, it was when many retailers went into the black, or turned profitable, for the year. 
 But longtime analysts, industry consultants and customers at malls and stores across the country said this year there were more shoppers than shopping bags. Even many die-hard Black Friday shoppers -- the ones who camp out on sidewalks overnight to be first through the doors -- said they were cutting back. 
 It was mainly only discount chains, which had been expected to hold up a bit better than other types of stores, that were bustling long before sunrise. People showed up for a small number of limited-time ''doorbuster'' deals, like 32-inch flat-screen televisions for $388 and laptops for $499. And in many cases, after an initial onslaught, crowds dwindled after the few sought-after items had sold out.
 While tussles, and even broken bones, are common when the doors open on Black Friday, this is apparently the first time someone has been killed in the stampede. And for some consumer psychologists, the mad scramble was a sign of the times. 
 ''I think it ties into a sort of fear and panic of not having enough,'' said Joe Priester, a professor at the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California and a former president of the Society for Consumer Psychology. A herd mentality, he said, can lead individuals to feel anonymous -- so much so that they are quite capable of trampling someone. ''Fear combined with the group mentality?'' he said. ''It doesn't surprise me at all.''
 Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates, a retail consultancy, said there was shopping mania at Wal-Mart every year. But this year, he said, it seems ''people are becoming irrational in their actions.'' 
 At a Wal-Mart store in Columbus, Ohio, Nikki Nicely, 19, jumped onto a man's back and pounded his shoulders when he tried to take a 40-inch Samsung flat-screen television to which she had laid claim. ''That's my TV!'' Ms. Nicely shouted. ''That's my TV!''
 A police officer and security guard intervened, but not before Ms. Nicely took an elbow in the face. In the end, she was the one with the $798 television, marked down from $1,000. ''That's right,'' she cried as her adversary walked away. ''This here is my TV!''
 Charisma Booker, also on the hunt for a television, said she had been shopping at Wal-Mart every Black Friday for nearly a decade. ''There are fewer people here this year, but they're more aggressive,'' she said. ''I've never seen anybody fight like this. This is crazy.''
 At a Wal-Mart in Niles, Ill., a mother fought back tears when she discovered someone had taken her shopping cart filled with toys. 
 In a statement about the death in a Wal-Mart in Valley Stream, N.Y., Hank Mullany, of the company's northeast division, said the store had expected a large crowd on Friday morning and had added security staff, among other measures. ''Despite all of our precautions,'' he said, ''this unfortunate event occurred.'' 
 Sandy Talbot, 47, said it was rowdy, not violent, at the Wal-Mart in Niles where the $25 six-foot artificial Christmas tree and the affordable toys she bought for her four children were well worth the pandemonium. ''I don't like the chaos,'' she said, ''but I do like the deals.'' 
 Unwittingly using an analogy often invoked by retailing professionals, Mrs. Talbot's daughter, Samantha, 18, declared, ''Shopping on Black Friday feels like when I'm competing in sports.''
 At a Toys ''R'' Us store in Palm Desert, Calif., two men were shot to death in a dispute, but local officials said the cause was unclear. And the company released a statement saying the deaths were not related to Black Friday shopping.
 Many retailers opened their stores earlier this year, and offered the biggest discounts in their history. 
 At Washington Square, a suburban shopping mall in Beaverton, Ore., most stores opened at 6 a.m., but the Disney Store was open at 4, and the J. C. Penney at 3:30. ''Anyone motivated to get up that early is really looking for the deals,'' said Jonae Armstrong, the mall's property manager. 
 While many retailers said the lines outside their stores were as long as last year, analysts disagreed. They said it was too early to tell how retailers would fare this weekend, though they were hearing rumblings of sales declines. That may be the case not only because of the economy, but also because of countless deep discounts to be found on the Web. The days of malls clogged with people on Black Friday are fast disappearing. 
 ''The wall to wall,'' Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for NPD Group, said, ''has become an area rug.'' 
 Many consumers were cutting back. ''This year, we told our kids to tone it down,'' said Patty and Michael Hirsch of Long Island, the parents of teenage boys, shopping at Saks Fifth Avenue in Manhattan.
 Those who did shop were often pleasantly surprised by the ease with which they moved through stores. In San Francisco, Adi Barak, 27, awoke at 4 a.m. to beat the anticipated crowds at the Stonestown Galleria. She could have slept in a bit. 
 ''I got surprised,'' Ms. Barak, a nurse, said. ''I was expecting a rush, and there's not a lot of people.'' 
 Certainly Wal-Mart was not the only retailer with aggressive Black Friday shoppers. But unlike Best Buy, for instance, it did not give out tickets for the items on customers' wish lists. Before Best Buy opened its doors at 5 a.m., shoppers lined up outside to receive tickets for merchandise they intended to buy, reducing the need to elbow one another to pick up computers and GPS units.
 Chuck O'Donnell, district services manager for Best Buy stores in New Jersey, said the lines ''went all the way around the building, just like in years past.'' Stores were crowded, he said, ''but manageable.'' Critics of Wal-Mart said the retailer had been negligent about security for its workers and customers. 
 ''They have problems with crowds every year, and inevitability, people get hurt,'' said David Nassar of Wal-Mart Watch, a union-financed group. ''They should expect to plan properly for this kind of a problem and have adequate security in place, and they don't.''
 The company, which determines on a store-by-store basis how many private security guards or police officers it needs on any given day, said that the safety of its customers and workers was its ''top priority'' and that the company's ''thoughts and prayers go out to the families of those impacted.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The first wave of shoppers rush into Macy's in New York just after the doors opened at 5 a.m. But analysts said that over all there were more shoppers than bags. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Left, shoppers dig into a sales bin, with DVDs priced at $4.99, at a Best Buy store in Beaverton, Ore. Right, a Wal-Mart store in Niles, Ill., just after 5 a.m. Friday. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 AMANDA RIVKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); THANKSGIVING (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (86%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); HERD BEHAVIOR (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1183 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: In Gains, Investors See Cause for Cautious Optimism

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street finished higher Friday, wrapping up its biggest five-day rally in more than 75 years, even as investors digested signs of a bleak holiday season for retailers. 
During the short trading day, investors turned to blue-chip names like Citigroup and General Motors, fueling a rally that surprised many market experts.
Just last week, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell to its lowest point since 1997 while Citigroup and G.M. were also severely beaten down -- touching off worries about how far the market would slide.
While the stock market's strong rebound was certainly welcome, analysts weren't getting too optimistic. Not only were trading volumes very light on Friday, but investors also will be digesting several reports on the state of the economy next week, including a reading on the manufacturing sector and the employment report from the Labor Department. Both are expected to be dismal.
''We're seeing some confidence come back into this stock market, but I don't think that's necessarily a reason to be dropping our guard,'' said Scott Fullman, director of derivatives investment strategy for WJB Capital Group in New York. ''You still have to be cautious. There's opportunity, but you have to be extremely selective and defensive.''
The Dow Jones industrial average closed Friday up 102.43 points, or 1.17 percent, to 8,829.04. The S.& P. 500-stock index advanced 8.56 points, or 0.96 percent, to 896.24. The Nasdaq composite index rose 3.47 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,535.57 -- the day's high.
The stock market closed three hours early the day after Thanksgiving and locked in gains of 16.9 percent for the Dow since the rally began Nov. 21, while the S.& P. 500 is up 19.1 percent.
It was the first time the Dow had risen for five consecutive sessions since July 2007, and the biggest five-day percentage gain over five sessions since Aug. 8, 1932. For the S.& P. 500, it was the first five-day string of gains since July 2007, and the largest five-day percentage gain since March 16, 1933.
Some retail stocks rose Friday as some investors hoped the predictions for a weak holiday season had been overly dour. Macy's added 5.6 percent, though some discounters like Wal-Mart Stores slipped.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 22/32, to 107 4/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.92 percent, down from 2.98 percent late Wednesday.
The dollar mostly rose against other major currencies, while gold prices also advanced.
Light, sweet crude fell one cent to settle at $54.43 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Overseas, the Nikkei 225 stock index was up 1.66 percent on Friday. Stocks in India rose a day after trading was suspended because of the terrorist attacks in Mumbai, the country's financial capital. The nation's Sensex index ended the day up 0.7 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 The Favorites 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011



1184 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Crisis May Shift Political Landscape

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
At midmorning on Friday, as Indian troops continued to comb through the devastated Oberoi hotel, an unexpected guest appeared on the sidewalk: Narendra Modi, a Hindu nationalist from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and arguably India's most incendiary politician.
 Speaking before a row of television cameras, he said the central government had failed to tackle a growing terrorism threat and he found fault with a speech by India's prime minister a day earlier. ''The country expected a lot from Prime Minister Manmohan Singh,'' he said, ''but his address to the nation was disappointing.'' 
 The appearance of Mr. Modi -- who has been barred from entering the United States for violations of religious freedom -- signaled how the two-day siege of Mumbai had instantly turned into political ammunition for coming national elections. After a string of attacks across Indian cities earlier this year, Mr. Modi's party, also known as the B.J.P., pledged to make national security its main campaign issue. This week's audacious attacks on the country's commercial capital, and their timing, gave the party an additional boost. 
 Five state elections are under way, with the city-state of Delhi going to the polls on Saturday. National balloting is expected to be held next spring. 
 It was only four years ago that the Bharatiya Janata Party, then leading a coalition government, was routed in national elections, partly because of at least two high-profile terrorism episodes during its tenure: a suicide attack on the Indian Parliament building in 2001 and the hijacking of an Indian Airlines plane to Kandahar, Afghanistan, in 1999. 
 Mr. Singh and his Congress Party hoped to ride a booming economy and rising prosperity to victory next year despite a steady series of bombings and other violence in recent months. And that had seemed a sensible course: studies of previous national elections have shown economic issues to be the most important concern for the average voter, said Yogendra Yadav, a political analyst with the Center for the Study of Developing Societies in Delhi. 
 But Mr. Yadav said he doubted that pattern would stand up after this latest assault. In an intensely competitive political landscape, small margins can make a big difference, which is why he argued that the terrorist threat would inevitably figure more centrally in the next national elections. 
 Mr. Singh's administration would have to be seen as doing ''something fast, something visible,'' he said, to shake off the perception that it is weak on national security. The Congress Party ''has to be seen to be doing something which directly addresses the widely shared popular perception that the country is being attacked from outside, that it is under aggression,'' Mr. Yadav said. 
 On Friday, front-page advertisements appeared in several newspapers in Delhi showing blood splattered against a black background and the slogan ''Brutal Terror Strikes At Will'' in bold capital letters. The ads signed off with a simple message: ''Fight Terror. Vote B.J.P.''
 There were also advertisements that were cast as an appeal from Atal Bihari Vajpayee, a prime minister in the last B.J.P.-led coalition government. They cited the loss of lives in Mumbai and concluded, ''We must elect a government that can fight terror tooth and nail.'' 
 Nor did the party's president, Lal Krishna Advani, lose any time in pointing fingers at the coalition government of Mr. Singh, accusing it of a ''nonserious approach'' that allowed suspected terrorists to sail onto the shores of Mumbai this week. 
 Kapil Sibal, a veteran of the Congress Party, swiftly hit back, accusing Mr. Modi of placing his party's interests above those of the nation and calling the B.J.P. advertisements ''a matter of national shame.'' In a telephone interview on Friday night, Mr. Sibal would not say whether recent terrorist attacks -- including this week's, the most spectacular and the most frightening -- would have any bearing on his party's election prospects. He called it ''not relevant.'' 
 That now may be wishful thinking. Terrorism may be grievously relevant to the fortunes of the ruling party, under whose watch Indian cities have suffered a string of attacks -- six of them in six months, killing roughly 375 people in all. After each one, the prime minister has issued a sobering statement calling for calm. After each one, the B.J.P. has pounced on the government as being soft on terrorism. 
 Mr. Singh's government had lately hit back at the Bharatiya Janata Party with evidence that its supporters, belonging to a range of radical Hindu organizations, had also been implicated in terrorist attacks. Indeed, in a bizarre twist, the head of the police antiterrorism unit, Hemant Karkare, killed in the Mumbai strikes, had been in the midst of a high-profile investigation of a suspected Hindu terrorist cell. Mr. Karkare's inquiry had netted nine suspects in connection with a bombing in September of a Muslim-majority area in Malegaon, a small town not far from Mumbai. 
 Several B.J.P. leaders, including Mr. Modi, had criticized the crackdown as a political vendetta. On Friday Mr. Modi, the chief minister of neighboring Gujarat State, announced financial rewards for the families of police officers killed this week in the antiterrorism operations, including Mr. Karkare.
 On Friday, Mr. Advani went so far as to say that intelligence agencies had been ''diverted to nail so-called Hindu terror,'' allowing the gunmen who struck Mumbai to ''plot away undetected.''
 The political fencing hides more fundamental problems: a feeble, often corrupt criminal justice system, in which suspects, whether of terrorism or common crimes, are regularly killed in skirmishes with law enforcement authorities rather than tried in courts of law. Faith and democracy also complicate the Indian battle against terrorism, as political parties compete for the loyalty of Hindu and Muslim voters.
 The B.J.P. has pressed for the resurrection of a tougher antiterrorism law that was in place during its administration. That measure allowed for longer periods of preventive detention and enabled confessions extracted by the police to be used in court. Its critics said it was an unfair and ineffective tool used too often to round up innocent people, largely Muslims, and it was repealed in 2004 by Mr. Singh's administration.
 In a nationally televised address on Thursday, the day after the siege on Mumbai began, Mr. Singh clearly sought to convey that his government was in charge and capable of acting swiftly. He promised to ''strengthen the hands of our police and intelligence authorities,'' restrict financing to suspect organizations, check the ''entry of suspects into the country'' and get tough on Pakistan, which the Indian government has accused of providing sanctuary to militants who attack on Indian soil. It was not clear how he would do any of these things, nor whether his words would persuade voters to trust his party with another five-year term. 
 Friday's newspapers scolded politicians as failing to act together in the interests of national security. ''It is time we stop our political parties from using terror -- Hindu or Muslim -- to fuel their popularity when they are fueling a fire that can consume India,'' read a front-page editorial in The Hindustan Times. 
 The Indian Express, in its front-page editorial, suggested that ''if a tragedy like this cannot make both sides -- in fact the entire political class -- make amends, we have no right to call ourselves a great nation, democracy, civilization.'' 
 Mr. Yadav's 2005 public opinion poll on sources of insecurity in India found that terrorism ranked far lower than common crimes and communal riots. Moreover, his studies showed that terrorism resonated far more with urban voters than rural ones.
 That is another reason the siege of Mumbai could give Mr. Singh cause for concern. Political redistricting this year has made the urban voter far more important nationally than ever before. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HIJACKING (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); RELIGION (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); AIRLINES (63%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); DELHI, INDIA (90%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) INDIA (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1185 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: A Loosely Drawn American Victory

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The security agreements between Iraq and the United States mark the beginning of the end of the war. They are only the beginning, though, and the terms of the agreements create uncertainties that could disrupt the smooth withdrawal of American troops from Iraq.
 The agreements -- a broad ''strategic framework'' and a more detailed security pact that were ratified Thursday by the Iraqi Parliament -- set a deadline that critics of the war have long wanted. They require that all American forces withdraw from Iraq no later than Dec. 31, 2011, but they offer no timetable for withdrawals, and in theory could add three more years to a war that has already lasted five and a half. 
 The United States has also agreed to remove all combat forces from Iraqi cities and villages by the end of next June, though the agreements remain silent on what constitutes ''combat'' troops and where exactly they will move. Those decisions have been left to a Joint Military Operations Coordination Committee, a body of Americans and Iraqis that could prove to be as ungainly as its acronym, Jmocc.
 The committee will have the authority to approve American military operations; the use of bases and facilities; the detention of Iraqis by American forces; and even -- in rare cases, it would seem -- the prosecution of American troops accused of ''grave premeditated felonies'' committed while off duty and off base. Any number of circumstances could strain cooperation and even lead to conflict.
 ''Question marks remain in the agreement concerning freedom of action for U.S. soldiers, vague security commitments and protection of Iraqi assets,'' Travis Sharp, a defense analyst at the Council for a Livable World, a nonprofit advocacy group, wrote in a statement after the Iraqi Parliament voted. 
 The council has long opposed the war, but it was telling that it expressed support for the agreements. The reason is that the vagueness of some of the terms and definitions also gives President-elect Barack Obama a fair amount of flexibility to carry out his campaign promises to end the war. 
 That opponents of the war support the agreements is a victory for President Bush, albeit a mixed one. It is also a vindication of Mr. Obama's insistence on establishing a timetable to withdraw, forcing the Americans and the Iraqis to contemplate a time without foreign troops occupying the country. 
 Already American commanders have begun considering how to accelerate withdrawals of combat brigades on a schedule much closer to Mr. Obama's than seemed possible a year ago. At the same time, the agreements leave room for keeping in place a larger contingent than Mr. Obama's supporters might have envisioned, with tens of thousands of American troops remaining in training and other support roles at least for the time being.
 Brooke Anderson, a policy adviser and spokeswoman for Mr. Obama's transition team, welcomed Iraq's approval of the agreements, saying that the Obama team was ''encouraged to see progress'' in establishing the conditions for an American presence beyond the expiration of the United Nations mandate at the end of the year. 
 The reason the agreements are a victory for Mr. Bush is that his administration has effectively negotiated an end to a costly and widely unpopular war that was begun in 2003 with a rationale -- eliminating Iraq's unconventional weapons -- that has since been discredited. 
 In the waning months of his presidency, Mr. Bush had to drop his initial opposition to any firm deadlines for American withdrawal, as Mr. Obama urged on the campaign trial, and agree to Iraqi demands to have a greater and greater say in the country's governance in the meantime.
 ''Given where we were in January 2007, we have seen an almost unthinkable pace of progress on political, economic and security issues,'' Mr. Bush's spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, said in a statement, describing the agreements as evidence of the success of the president's strategy. ''So much so that the improved conditions allowed us to come to this mutual agreement with a sovereign Iraq that is solving its problems in the political process, not with guns and bombs.''
 The concessions that Mr. Bush accepted to Iraqi sovereignty have raised concerns among prominent Democrats in Congress, including Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, and his counterpart in the House, Representative Ike Skelton of Missouri. 
 But any withdrawal from Iraq was inevitably going to accompany stronger assertions of Iraqi sovereignty and thus an uncertain period of transition in which real operational control passes from the American military to Iraq's. 
 Article 9 of the agreement governing security forces, for example, gives Iraq control of its airspace for the first time since the war began but goes on to say that Iraq may request ''temporary support'' from the United States. 
 Still unclear is how many American forces are expected to remain between now and the deadline for withdrawal, and whether any could stay beyond then. What is clear is that beginning on Jan. 1, when the agreements go into effect, American-led operations in Iraq will be conducted under far greater restraints. 
 The history of the war suggests that security gains are reversible, that whatever political reconciliation unfolds will be punctuated by eruptions of violence, that American forces will continue for some time to oversee an ethnic and sectarian patchwork that could quickly revert to civil war.
 As part of the effort to win passage from Iraq's Parliament, the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki also agreed to hold a national referendum next year on the agreements. A vote against them would put the American forces then in Iraq -- almost certainly more than 100,000 troops -- in a legal limbo without the United Nations mandate the agreements are intended to replace at the end of this year. 
 ''It is quite apparent that the Bush administration will be leaving the Obama administration with a messy, complicated and unstable situation in Iraq,'' the National Security Network, a policy group made up mostly of Democrats who have sharply criticized Mr. Bush's policies, said in a statement.
 It has also left Mr. Obama a way out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); APPROVALS (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); FELONIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (84%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1186 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
'Tis The Season of the Mad Rush
 Audio interviews with shoppers and shopkeepers in the New York area about their mood on Black Friday, and pictures capturing the mayhem in stores around the country. 
 nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: PHOTOGRAPHER'S JOURNAL ON MUMBAI
 Photographer Michael Rubenstein on working in Mumbai, India, during the protracted terrorist attack that began Wednesday and lasted nearly 60 hours. He discusses his arrival in the area, local reactions, his access and his preparedness.
 nytimes.com/world
 VIDEO: A CONVERSATION WITH TONI MORRISON
 The author discusses her new novel, ''A Mercy,'' and the election of Barack Obama with Sam Tanenhaus, editor of the Book Review. 
 nytimes.com/books
 VIDEO: A HYBRID SPORT 
 Returns to New York City
 Cyclocross racing, a sport of riding and carrying a bike on an off-road obstacle course, is back in New York City after a seven-year absence. In a video, urban riders practice in Central Park at the crack of dawn. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 AUDIO: MARVELOUS SHOES
 Bill Cunningham marvels at the imaginative shoes women have been wearing around New York City.
 nytimes.com/fashion
 AUDIO: WEEKEND BUSINESS: 
 Obama's Team and More
 In this week's podcast: Jeff Sommer talks with David Leonhardt on the Obama economic team and the markets; Louis Uchitelle on the Savannah, Ga., economy; and Mark Hulbert on small-cap value stocks.
 nytimes.com/business
 INTERACTIVE: GIFTS FIT FOR A KING,
 But Priced for Subjects
 An interactive guide of gifts suitable for royalty, but at $150 or less, priced for commoners.
 nytimes.com/fashion
 Bloggingheads.tv Will Nancy Pelosi and the new majority in Congress pursue an old school liberal agenda? 
 nytimes.com/opinion

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Mad, Mad Rush Of Holiday Season: Audio interviews with shoppers and shopkeepers in the New York area about their mood on Black Friday, and pictures capturing the mayhem in stores around the country. nytimes.com/business (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); RETAILERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); WRITERS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LIBERALISM (64%); TERRORISM (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); PODCASTING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); NANCY PELOSI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1187 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: 100th-Birthday Tributes Pour In for Levi-Strauss

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Basil Katz contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Claude Levi-Strauss, who altered the way Westerners look at other civilizations, turned 100 on Friday, and France celebrated with films, lectures and free admission to the museum he inspired, the Musee du Quai Branly.
 Mr. Levi-Strauss is cherished in France, and is an additional reminder of the nation's cultural significance in the year when another Frenchman, Jean-Marie Gustave Le Clezio, won the Nobel Prize in Literature.
 Mr. Levi-Strauss shot to prominence early, but with his 1955 book, ''Tristes Tropiques,'' a sort of anthropological meditation based on his travels in Brazil and elsewhere in the 1930s, he became a national treasure of a specially French kind. The jury of the Prix Goncourt, France's most famous literary award, said that it would have given the prize to ''Tristes Tropiques'' had it been fiction.
 Mr. Levi-Strauss, a Brussels-born and Paris-bred Jew, fled France after its capitulation to the Nazis in 1940. He spent the next eight years based in the United States, where he taught at the New School for Social Research in New York and was influenced by noted anthropologists like Franz Boas, who taught at Columbia. 
 On Friday, the culmination of several days of celebration, there were no false notes. At the Quai Branly, 100 scholars and writers read from or lectured on the work of Mr. Levi-Strauss, while documentaries about him were screened, and guided visits were provided to the collections, which include some of his own favorite artifacts. 
 Stephane Martin, the president of the museum, said in an interview that Mr. Levi-Strauss was himself a major collector, and as he first toured the new museum, in 2006, ''he remembered various pieces and complained that he had to sell them to pay for a divorce.''
 Mr. Martin, along with the French culture minister, Christine Albanel, and the minister of higher education and research, Valerie Pecresse, presided over the unveiling of a plaque outside the museum's theater, which is already named for Mr. Levi-Strauss, who did not attend the festivities. Ms. Pecresse announced a new annual 100,000 euro prize (about $127,000) in his name for a researcher in ''human sciences'' working in France. President Nicolas Sarkozy visited Mr. Levi-Strauss on Friday evening at his home. 
 Roger-Pol Droit, a philosopher who read from ''Tristes Tropiques,'' said that he ''would have loved a text from Levi-Strauss today saying, 'I hate birthdays and commemorations,' just as he began 'Tristes Tropiques' saying, 'I hate traveling and explorers.' '' 
 ''This is all about the effort of making him into a myth,'' Mr. Droit continued, ''because that is what we do in our time.''
 The museum was the grand project of former president Jacques Chirac, who loved anthropology and embraced the idea of a colloquy of civilizations, as opposed to the academic quality of the old Musee de l'Homme, which Philippe Descola, the chairman of the anthropology department at the College de France, described as ''an empty shell -- full of artifacts but dead to themselves.'' 
 The new museum, which has 1.3 million visitors a year, was a sort of homage to Mr. Levi-Strauss, who ''blessed it from the beginning,'' Mr. Descola said, and was an important voice of support for a much criticized and politicized idea.
 In 1996, when asked his opinion of the project, Mr. Levi-Strauss said in a handwritten letter to Mr. Chirac: ''It takes into account the evolution of the world since the Musee de l'Homme was created. An ethnographic museum can no longer, as at that time, offer an authentic vision of life in these societies so different from ours. With perhaps a few exceptions that will not last, these societies are progressively integrated into world politics and economy. When I see the objects that I collected in the field between 1935 and 1938 again -- and it's also true of others -- I know that their relevance has become either documentary or, mostly, aesthetic.''
 The building is striking and controversial, imposing the ideas of the star architect Jean Nouvel on the organization of the spaces. But Mr. Martin says it is working well for the museum, whose marvelous objects -- ''fragile flowers of difference,'' as Mr. Levi-Strauss once called them -- can be seen on varying levels of aesthetics and serious study. They are presented as artifacts of great beauty but also with defining context, telling visitors not only what they are, but also what they were meant to be when they were created.
 On Thursday, from noon to midnight, ARTE, a French-German cultural television channel, showed nothing but Levi-Strauss, with documentaries, films and interviews with him and with those inspired or influenced by his work, including the novelist Michel Tournier.
 The French Academy, which governs the French language and elected Mr. Levi-Strauss in 1973, honored him in what its permanent secretary, Helene Carrere d'Encausse, called ''a huge event and perhaps above all 'a family celebration.' ''
 On Tuesday there was a day-long colloquium at the College de France, where Mr. Levi-Strauss once taught. Mr. Descola said that centenary celebrations were being held in at least 25 countries. 
 ''People realize he is one of the great intellectual heroes of the 20th century,'' he said in an interview. ''His thought is among the most complex of the 20th century, and it's hard to convey his prose and his thinking in English. But he gave a proper object to anthropology: not simply as a study of human nature, but a systematic study of how cultural practices vary, how cultural differences are systematically organized.'' 
 Mr. Levi-Strauss took difference as the basis for his study, not the search for commonality, which defined 19th-century anthropology, Mr. Descola said. In other words, he took cultures on their own terms rather than try to relate everything to the West. 
 Mr. Descola, 59, said he was 17 when he read ''Tristes Tropiques,'' and ''it left a lasting mark.'' 
 ''I can't say I decided on the spot to become an anthropologist,'' he said, ''but rather to become a man like that.''
 One of the most remarkable aspects of the Quai Branly is its landscaping, designed by Gilles Clement to reflect the questing spirit of Mr. Levi-Strauss. Mr. Clement tried to create a ''non-Western garden,'' he said in an interview, ''with more the spirit of the savannah,'' where most of the animist civilizations live whose artifacts fill the museum itself. 
 He tried to think through the symbols of the cosmology of these civilizations, their systems of gods and beliefs, which also animate their agriculture and their gardens. The garden here uses the symbol of the tortoise, not reflected literally, ''but in an oval form that recurs,'' Mr. Clement said.
 ''We find the tortoise everywhere,'' he continued. ''It's an animal that lives a long time, so it represents a sort of reassurance, or the eternal, perhaps.''
 Mr. Levi-Strauss ''is very important to me,'' Mr. Clement said, adding: ''He represents an extremely subversive vision with his interest in populations that were disdained. He paid careful attention, not touristically but profoundly, to the human beings on the earth who think differently from us. It's a respect for others, which is very strong and very moving. He knew that cultural diversity is necessary for cultural creativity, for the future.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The pioneering anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PASCAL PAVANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)(C1)
Julia Kristeva, the Bulgarian-French author, speaking at ceremonies for Claude Levi-Strauss's 100th birthday on Friday at the Musee du Quai Branly in Paris. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANcOIS GUILLOT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
 An early photograph of Claude Levi-Strauss and his wife, Dina, in their tent while doing fieldwork in Mato Grosso, Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSeE DU QUAI BRANLY)(C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) FRANCE (96%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1188 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Bush Shows a Reflective Side to an Unusual Interviewer

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush has been described by his wife, Laura, as a man not comfortable with introspection. But he opened up a bit in a recent interview, reflecting on life in office and beyond. 
 The president acknowledged that he would miss some things about life in the White House, including the comfort of the presidential retreat at Camp David, Md., the convenience of traveling on Air Force One and not having to worry about traffic jams on the ground. 
 But, Mr. Bush told the interviewer, ''I'm not going to miss the limelight all that much.''
 ''It's been a fabulous experience to be the president,'' he said, ''but it'll be nice to see the klieg lights shift somewhere else.''
 The interviewer asked no bothersome questions about the financial crisis, wars overseas or Republican setbacks in the elections. Chances are that the interviewer, Doro Bush Koch, already knew how her brother the president felt about those and other weighty issues of the day.
 ''I would like to be a person remembered as a person who, first and foremost, did not sell his soul in order to accommodate the political process,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I came to Washington with a set of values, and I'm leaving with the same set of values.''
 Mrs. Bush said she would ''always have a special place in my heart'' for the women and girls of Afghanistan, able in the post-Taliban era to go to school or walk outside without male chaperones. 
 The president and first lady were interviewed by Ms. Koch on Nov. 12 for StoryCorps, an organization that collects oral histories. Parts of the session were broadcast on Thanksgiving Day on National Public Radio, and the entire interview will be archived in the Library of Congress.
 Mrs. Bush said she would miss looking out the window of her upstairs dressing room and seeing her husband in the Oval Office. She and her husband will both miss the people at the White House -- not just the famous, but also those who make the place run year in and year out.
 Mr. Bush expressed his fondness for his father, the first President Bush, who he said had given his children the gift of ''unconditional love.''
 Finally, Mr. Bush reflected on his religious faith and the place of religion in American life.
 ''I have recognized I am a lowly sinner seeking redemption,'' he said. But the greatness of America, he said, ''is that you can worship or not worship and be equally American. And it doesn't matter how you choose to worship; you're equally American.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George W. Bush, then the Republican candidate for president, with his sister, Doro Bush Koch, at a debate on Oct. 11, 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC GAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HISTORY (73%); TALIBAN (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (63%); RELIGION (63%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1189 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: To Fix the Economy, Drop the Ideology

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Stimulus for Skeptics,'' David Brooks (column, Nov. 28):
 Looking to the ''competitiveness guru'' Michael E. Porter for ideological inspiration and policy guidance exposes the agenda of conservatives who wish to retain our free-wheeling, laissez-faire economy, but only temper its excesses and put Band-Aids on its inherent shortcomings.
 Conservatives seem more interested in saving an ideology than mapping a course toward a better economic future. 
 At the very least, the extent and scope of our current crisis should call into question some of the fundamental assumptions and longstanding free-market policies that helped create and perpetuate our economic quagmire. 
 Viewing solutions through rose-colored ideological glasses will lead to myopic economic prescriptions that will have to be remedied yet again further down the road.
 Joseph Delia New York, Nov. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The manipulators of stocks, bonds and mortgages who robbed the public and became filthy rich deserve the scolding given them by Thomas L. Friedman (''All Fall Down,'' column, Nov. 26). But it is not enough. 
 Although Paul Krugman (''Lest We Forget,'' column, Nov. 28) supplies some insight about what is needed, we are still left wondering about particular necessary changes.
 The root cause of the financial crisis is governmental: the removal of regulations, the willful ceding of market control, the disappearance of morality from capitalism's operation, the Reagan-founded faith in the free market.
 Instead of telling the manipulators, ''Quit doing selfish things,'' we must tell them, ''Here are new, specific laws to make you quit doing selfish things.'' 
 That is the kind of change for which we elected Barack Obama as well as a progressive majority in Congress. 
 Roland A. Duerksen Oxford, Ohio, Nov. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''U.S. Consumer Loan Aid Will Trickle Only So Far'' (front page, Nov. 27):
 Billions of dollars here! Billions of dollars there! 
 But will those dollars -- our dollars -- get to where they need to go, when they need to go there? 
 Or will they end up lining the pockets of the already super-rich, who forever seem to live like kings at other people's expense?
 I sincerely hope President-elect Barack Obama and his advisers intend to establish a leak-proof (yeah, right) system, so that none of those billions go where they don't belong. 
 Susan Kross Ellenville, N.Y., Nov. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Dying of Consumption,'' by Stephen S. Roach (Op-Ed, Nov. 28):
 I have been hearing much being made about the similarities of the current economic situation to the early 1930s. Mr. Roach's call for more personal saving makes me think we should also look more closely at the early 1940s.
 During World War II, Americans felt it a patriotic duty to buy United States war bonds, and they did so to the tune of more than $180 billion. 
 When President-elect Barack Obama takes office, he should challenge us, as President Franklin D. Roosevelt did, to buy bonds to finance our movement toward energy independence. Freedom from foreign oil could be our fifth freedom. 
 Along with the government, corporations and celebrities could all lend their voices to mustering the extraordinary power of the American people to defeat a foe -- our oil addiction -- that now threatens our liberties more than any foreign tyrant or terrorist. 
 Janet Ellingson Salt Lake City, Nov. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''U.S. Plans $800 Billion in Lending to Ease Crisis'' (front page, Nov. 26):
 In an attempt to create ideas about the economy, let's hold public debates between economists or other business experts. The conflicts that are intrinsic to debate often spur useful thinking, and cause ideas to be articulated that might otherwise remain dormant. 
 Such ideas would help everyone, and especially policy makers. Economics is at best a blurry science, and right now the need is for public thinking about it. 
 Bill Garn San Luis Obispo, Calif., Nov. 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); PAUL KRUGMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1190 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LISA BROWN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Inner Circle, Members and Maybes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE

 BODY:
Chosen for: White House staff secretary
 Brings to the job: A lawyer's eye for detail to an office that experts describe as the nerve center of the White House. She will be the gatekeeper for nearly every piece of paper that reaches the president's desk. 
 Is linked to Mr. Obama by: Members of former Vice President Al Gore's staff, with whom she has worked, as well as John D. Podesta, who has been directing Mr. Obama's transition effort. 
 In her own words:''Conservatives have captured the intellectual initiative in popular and even much elite discourse. Their success in framing and communicating fundamental conservative principles has contributed to real legal and political change over the last two decades. Will we allow narrow and sterile conservative interpretations of our Constitution's vital principles and protections to reshape our national character and control our daily lives? Our answer, on this weekend and on every day of the coming years, is a resounding no.'' (From a 2005 entry on the blog for the ''Constitution 2020'' conference at Yale Law School)
 Used to work as: The executive director of the American Constitution Society for Law and Policy, a left-leaning legal organization in Washington. From 1997 to 2001, she served as in-house counsel to Mr. Gore and was a member of the Executive Board of the President's Committee for Employment of People with Disabilities. 
 Carries as baggage: An activist agenda, which she pursued for years working on civil rights and disability issues and speaking out in liberal legal circles. 
 Biography: Born March 6, 1960, in Washington, where she grew up ... graduated from Princeton in 1982, with a degree in political economy, and University of Chicago Law School in 1986 ... married to Dr. Kevin Cullen, head of the cancer center at the University of Maryland ... the couple has a 6-year-old son. MICHAEL FALCONE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DISABLED WORKERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); CANCER (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); AL GORE (58%); JOHN PODESTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



1191 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Lenders Become Proactive

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, most home foreclosures were concentrated in depressed manufacturing areas of the Midwest and the speculative real estate zones of Florida, Arizona and California. Most other regions were experiencing only modest increases because the unemployment rate -- the most common trigger of mortgage default -- was relatively low. 
 Now, with the economy in full retreat and the jobless rate rising, borrowers and lenders in areas with previously marginal foreclosure rates are bracing for the worst. 
 As a result, the banking industry has taken pre-emptive measures to help borrowers. The best example is an initiative, announced this month, to help those who took out loans backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-owned companies that buy conventional mortgages from a wide swath of lenders. The companies' loans make up about 58 percent of single-family mortgages nationwide.
 Lenders are willing to change the loan terms if homeownership costs exceed 38 percent of gross monthly income -- a measure known as the debt-to-income ratio. Lenders use this benchmark for determining the size of a loan.
 But a property tax increase or a job loss can push borrowers beyond that threshold. To stave off financial jeopardy, lenders are asking that anyone with a debt-to-income ratio exceeding 38 percent contact the company that sends the borrower's monthly mortgage bill. These loan servicers, as they are known, can drop the interest rate, reduce the loan's principal by as much as $100,000 and extend the repayment to 40 years, if doing so ensures the borrower can pay the loan, according to Ed Delgado, a senior vice president of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. 
 Borrowers must first document their income and then make their first three payments under the new repayment plan for the loan modification to fully vest. After five years, servicers will re-examine the borrower's financial health and either adjust the terms further, keep them in place or revert to the original terms of the mortgage. If the home is sold, borrowers must negotiate with the servicer to determine whether they must repay the principal that the lender set aside.
 There's also help for those who do not have Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac loans. The Hope for Homeowners initiative, a government-led program, has raised the incentives for loan servicers to modify the mortgages of people who owe more than their homes are worth.
 Under the plan, servicers may write off less of the value of the borrower's home when modifying the terms of the mortgage. Servicers had been unwilling to essentially give away so much equity to borrowers, and subsequently only 42 borrowers had their loans restructured in October, the program's first month.
 As with the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac program, borrowers who are struggling with mortgage bills should call their servicer to discuss the Hope for Homeowners program.
 Individual lenders, meanwhile, are more proactive about contacting those who may be on the verge of missing a loan payment. 
 Citigroup's CitiMortgage division said it would reach out to about 500,000 mortgage customers. Among other things, Citi will monitor borrowers' credit scores. A sharp drop in a score could indicate financial problems, at which point Citi could send a letter encouraging the borrower to contact the company about restructuring loan terms. 
 Any customer, even those not contacted, can call the company and ask for help, said Mark Rodgers, a Citi spokesman.

GRAPHIC: CHART: MORTGAGE RATES (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1192 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Deportee Brings Street Dance to Street Boys of Cambodia

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia 

 BODY:
It may be the only place in Cambodia where the children are nicknamed Homey, Frog, Floater, Fresh, Bugs and Diamond. 
 And there are not many places like this small courtyard, thumping with the beat of a boom box, where dozens of boys in big T-shirts are spinning on their heads and doing one-hand hops, elbow tracks, flairs, halos, air tracks and windmills. And, of course, krumping. 
 It is a little slice of Long Beach, Calif., brought here by a former gang member by way of a federal prison, an immigration jail and then expulsion four years ago from his homeland, the United States, to the homeland of his parents, Cambodia. 
 The former gang member is Tuy Sobil, 30, who goes by the street name K.K. The boys are Cambodian street children he has taken under his wing as he teaches them the art he brought with him, break dancing, as well as his hard lessons in life. 
 K.K. is not here because he wants to be. He is one of 189 Cambodians who have been banished from the United States in the past six years under a law that mandates deportations for noncitizens who commit felonies. Hundreds more are on a waiting list for deportation. Like most of the others, K.K. is a noncitizen only by a technicality. He was not an illegal immigrant. He was a refugee from Cambodia's Khmer Rouge ''killing fields'' who found a haven in the United States in 1980. 
 He was an infant when he arrived. In fact, he was born in a refugee camp in Thailand and had never seen Cambodia before he was deported. But K.K.'s parents were simple farmers who failed to complete the citizenship process when they arrived. 
 Like some children of poor immigrants, K.K. drifted to the streets, where he became a member of the Crips gang and a champion break dancer. It was only after he was convicted of armed robbery at 18 that he discovered that he was not a citizen. 
 Like many deportees, he arrived in Cambodia without possessions and without family contacts. He was a drug counselor at first and then founded his break dancing club, Tiny Toones Cambodia, where he now earns a living teaching about 150 youngsters and reaching out to hundreds more. 
 With the financial support of international aid groups like Bridges Across Borders, based in Graham, Fla., he has expanded his center into a small school that teaches English and Khmer and computers in addition to back flips, head stands and krumping, or crazy dancing. 
 Some other deportees have found work that uses their fluency in English, particularly in hotels. Some have reunited with families. But many have slipped into unemployment, depression and sometimes drug use. 
 ''Some were doing well initially but now over time have become unemployed or never did get employment, and just got discouraged,'' said Dimple Rana, who works with Deported Diaspora, which is based in Revere, Mass., and helps deportees adjust. 
 ''I know of a whole bunch of returnees whose mothers were sending money from their Social Security,'' she said. ''Now, with the economy in the United States, it is very hard and families are not able to send even $100 or $150.'' 
 K.K. stands out as a success, both in finding a calling and in embracing his fate. He has a fair command of the language, unlike some deportees who arrived with no knowledge of Khmer. 
 ''I think it was meant for me to be here, even though I lost my family,'' he said. ''And my kid is there, Kayshawn. He is 8.''
 K.K. is in touch with his relatives in Long Beach but has not seen them since he was deported.
 ''Right now, you know, these kids are my family,'' he said. ''I don't have a kid here, but I adopted one, a street kid. His mom and dad are on drugs.'' 
 The boys and girls leaping and spinning here are the children of Cambodia's underclass, like thousands who fill the slums of Phnom Penh -- children who spend their evenings, as K.K. put it, ''begging and digging through garbage to find food.'' 
 K.K., whose youth was not so different from theirs, said he teaches them to find pride in who they are. A wall of his center is marked with students' graffiti: ''I want to be a rapper,'' ''I want to be a D.J.,'' ''I want to be a doctor.'' 
 ''I try to tell them not to judge people by the way they look,'' he said. ''I still have a struggle here in Cambodia. People judge me. People see me with tattoos and think I'm a bad guy. 
 ''Sometimes it's, 'Come on, we're going to kill some Americans,' '' he said, describing threats from street toughs. ''I'm not American. I'm Khmer, man.'' 
 His journey between identities reached a point of strangeness when he was invited last December to perform with some of his students at a Christmas party at the United States Embassy. 
 ''The American ambassador gave me a handshake and a hug, and asked me one day when his kid is a little older he wanted to put him in my school,'' K.K. said. 
 The ambassador at the time, Joseph A. Mussomeli, recalled the performance as ''great fun,'' but he said the piquancy of the moment had not been lost on him. 
 ''You are right that there is a certain wonderful irony to him being 'rejected' or at least 'ejected' from the U.S. and still landing on his feet -- or shoulders and head -- dancing,'' Mr. Mussomeli said in an e-mail message. 
 ''While watching him I was reminded of that great patriotic speech by Bill Murray in 'Stripes,' '' he added, ''where he talks about Americans as being rejects from all the good, decent countries of the world! K.K. is/was an American in everything except in law -- and he has shown this by his creativity, tenacity, and undying optimism.'' 
 Now another irony is in store for K.K. His club has been invited to send dancers to perform in the United States -- Cambodian boys who speak no English and have never left their country. 
 The real American among them, K.K., deported and excluded from the United States for the rest of his life, must stay behind. 
 ''I can't go,'' he said over the thump of the boom box, as his boys jumped and bounced around him like tiny springs. ''I can understand that they deported me here. I'd like to go visit -- only visit, because I live here now. I have a brand new life.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tach Piseth, 11, practiced spinning on his head at the Tiny Toones break dancing club in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. The club teaches about 150 youngsters.
 Tuy Sobil, or K.K., right, a former gang member from Long Beach, Calif., founded the club after being deported in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GANGS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); FELONIES (75%); CITIZENSHIP (74%); GENOCIDE (73%); ROBBERY (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); PRISONS (70%); DANCERS (68%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1193 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Chance and Circumstance

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times.

 BODY:
OUTLIERS
 The Story of Success.
 By Malcolm Gladwell.
 Illustrated. 309 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $27.99
 In 1984, a young man named Malcolm graduated from the University of Toronto and moved to the United States to try his hand at journalism. Thanks to his uncommonly clear writing style and keen eye for a story, he quickly landed a job at The Washington Post. After less than a decade at The Post, he moved up to the pinnacle of literary journalism, The New Yorker. There, he wrote articles full of big ideas about the hidden patterns of ordinary life, which then became grist for two No. 1 best-selling books. In the vast world of nonfiction writing, he is as close to a singular talent as exists today. 
 Or at least that's one version of the story of Malcolm Gladwell. Here is another: 
 In 1984, a young man named Malcolm graduated from the University of Toronto and moved to the United States to try his hand at journalism. No one could know it then, but he arrived with nearly the perfect background for his time. His mother was a psychotherapist and his father a mathematician. Their professions pointed young Malcolm toward the behavioral sciences, whose popularity would explode in the 1990s. His mother also just happened to be a writer on the side. So unlike most children of mathematicians and therapists, he came to learn, as he would later recall, ''that there is beauty in saying something clearly and simply.'' As a journalist, he plumbed the behavioral research for optimistic lessons about the human condition, and he found an eager audience during the heady, proudly geeky '90s. His first book, ''The Tipping Point,'' was published in March 2000, just days before the Nasdaq peaked. 
 These two stories about Gladwell are both true, and yet they are also very different. The first personalizes his success. It is the classically American version of his career, in that it gives individual characteristics -- talent, hard work, Horatio Alger-like pluck -- the starring role. The second version doesn't necessarily deny these characteristics, but it does sublimate them. The protagonist is not a singularly talented person who took advantage of opportunities. He is instead a talented person who took advantage of singular opportunities. 
 Gladwell's latest book, ''Outliers,'' is a passionate argument for taking the second version of the story more seriously than we now do. ''It is not the brightest who succeed,'' Gladwell writes. ''Nor is success simply the sum of the decisions and efforts we make on our own behalf. It is, rather, a gift. Outliers are those who have been given opportunities -- and who have had the strength and presence of mind to seize them.'' 
 He doesn't actually tell his own life story in the book. (But he lurks offstage, since he does describe the arc of his mother's Jamaican family.) Instead, he tells other success stories, often using the device of back-to-back narratives. He starts with a tale of individual greatness, about the Beatles or the titans of Silicon Valley or the enormously successful generation of New York Jews born in the early 20th century. Then he adds details that undercut that tale. 
 So Bill Gates is introduced as a young computer programmer from Seattle whose brilliance and ambition outshine the brilliance and ambition of the thousands of other young programmers. But then Gladwell takes us back to Seattle, and we discover that Gates's high school happened to have a computer club when almost no other high schools did. He then lucked into the opportunity to use the computers at the University of Washington, for hours on end. By the time he turned 20, he had spent well more than 10,000 hours as a programmer. 
 At the end of this revisionist tale, Gladwell asks Gates himself how many other teenagers in the world had as much experience as he had by the early 1970s. ''If there were 50 in the world, I'd be stunned,'' Gates says. ''I had a better exposure to software development at a young age than I think anyone did in that period of time, and all because of an incredibly lucky series of events.'' Gates's talent and drive were surely unusual. But Gladwell suggests that his opportunities may have been even more so. 
 Many people, I think, have an instinctual understanding of this idea (even if Gladwell, in the interest of setting his thesis against conventional wisdom, doesn't say so). That's why parents spend so much time worrying about what school their child attends. They don't really believe the child is so infused with greatness that he or she can overcome a bad school, or even an average one. And yet when they look back years later on their child's success -- or their own -- they tend toward explanations that focus on the individual. Devastatingly, if cheerfully, Gladwell exposes the flaws in these success stories we tell ourselves. 
 The book's first chapter explores the anomaly of hockey players' birthdays. In many of the best leagues in the world, amateur or professional, roughly 40 percent of the players were born in January, February or March, while only 10 percent were born in October, November or December. It's a profoundly strange pattern, with a simple explanation. The cutoff birth date for many youth hockey leagues is Jan. 1. So the children born in the first three months of the year are just a little older, bigger and stronger than their peers. These older children are then funneled into all-star teams that offer the best, most intense training. By the time they become teenagers, their random initial advantage has turned into a real one. 
 At the championship game of the top Canadian junior league, Gladwell interviews the father of one player born on Jan. 4. More than half of the players on his team -- the Medicine Hat Tigers -- were born in January, February or March. But when Gladwell asks the father to explain his son's success, the calendar has nothing to do with it. He instead mentions passion, talent and hard work -- before adding, as an aside, that the boy was always big for his age. Just imagine, Gladwell writes, if Canada created another youth hockey league for children born in the second half of the year. It would one day find itself with twice as many great hockey players. 
 ''Outliers'' has much in common with Gladwell's earlier work. It is a pleasure to read and leaves you mulling over its inventive theories for days afterward. It also, unfortunately, avoids grappling in a few instances with research that casts doubt on those theories. (Gladwell argues that relatively older children excel not only at hockey but also in the classroom. The research on this issue, however, is decidedly mixed.) This is a particular shame, because it would be a delight to watch someone of his intellect and clarity make sense of seemingly conflicting claims. 
 For all these similarities, though, ''Outliers'' represents a new kind of book for Gladwell. ''The Tipping Point'' and ''Blink,'' his second book, were a mixture of social psychology, marketing and even a bit of self-help. ''Outliers'' is far more political. It is almost a manifesto. ''We look at the young Bill Gates and marvel that our world allowed that 13-year-old to become a fabulously successful entrepreneur,'' he writes at the end. ''But that's the wrong lesson. Our world only allowed one 13-year-old unlimited access to a time-sharing terminal in 1968. If a million teenagers had been given the same opportunity, how many more Microsofts would we have today?'' 
 After a decade -- and, really, a generation -- in which this country has done fairly little to build up the institutions that can foster success, Gladwell is urging us to rethink. Once again, his timing may prove to be pretty good.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN DOYLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); BESTSELLERS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); MATHEMATICS (65%); CHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Outliers (Book)>; Outliers (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1194 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: What Would Keynes Have Done?

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President Bush and advised Mitt Romney in his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.

 BODY:
IF you were going to turn to only one economist to understand the problems facing the economy, there is little doubt that the economist would be John Maynard Keynes. Although Keynes died more than a half-century ago, his diagnosis of recessions and depressions remains the foundation of modern macroeconomics. His insights go a long way toward explaining the challenges we now confront.
 According to Keynes, the root cause of economic downturns is insufficient aggregate demand. When the total demand for goods and services declines, businesses throughout the economy see their sales fall off. Lower sales induce firms to cut back production and to lay off workers. Rising unemployment and declining profits further depress demand, leading to a feedback loop with a very unhappy ending. 
 The situation reverses, Keynesian theory says, only when some event or policy increases aggregate demand. The problem right now is that it is hard to see where that demand might come from.
 The economy's output of goods and services is traditionally divided into four components: consumption, investment, net exports and government purchases. Any expansion in demand has to come from one of these four. But in each case, strong forces are working to keep spending down.
 CONSUMPTIONThe Conference Board reports that consumer confidence is near its record low. It is easy to understand why consumers are so scared. House values have declined, 401(k) balances have shrunk and unemployment is up. For many people, the sense of economic uncertainty is greater than they've ever experienced. When it comes to discretionary purchases, like a new home, a car, or a washing machine, wait-and-see is the most rational course.
 A bit more saving is not entirely unwelcome. Many economists have long lamented the United States saving rate, which is low by international and historical standards.
 For the overall economy, however, a recession is not the best time for households to start saving. Keynesian theory suggests a ''paradox of thrift.'' If all households try to save more, a short-run result could be lower aggregate demand and thus lower national income. Reduced incomes, in turn, could prevent households from reaching their new saving goals.
 INVESTMENT In normal times, a fall in consumption could be met by an increase in investment, which includes spending by businesses on plant and equipment and by households on new homes. But several factors are keeping investment spending at bay.
 The most obvious is the state of the housing market. Over the past three years, residential investment has fallen 42 percent. With house prices continuing to decline, increased building of new homes is not likely to be a source of robust demand over the next few years.
 Business investment has lately been stronger than residential investment, but it is unlikely to pick up the slack in the near future. With the stock market down, interest rates on corporate bonds up and the banking system teetering on the edge, financing new business projects will not be easy.
 NET EXPORTS Not long ago, it looked as if the rest of the world would save the United States economy from a deep downturn. From March 2004 to March 2008, the dollar fell 19 percent against an average of other major currencies. By increasing the price of foreign goods in the United States and reducing the price of American goods abroad, this depreciation discouraged imports and bolstered exports. Over the last three years, real net exports have increased by about $250 billion.
 In the coming months, however, the situation may well go into reverse. As the United States financial crisis has spread to the rest of the world, fast-moving international capital has been looking for a safe haven. Ironically, that haven is the United States. Since March, the dollar has appreciated 19 percent, a move that will put a crimp in the export boom.
 GOVERNMENT PURCHASES That leaves the government as the demander of last resort. Calls for increased infrastructure spending fit well with Keynesian theory. In principle, every dollar spent by the government could cause national income to increase by more than a dollar if it leads to a more vibrant economy and stimulates spending by consumers and companies. By all reports, that is precisely the plan that the incoming Obama administration has in mind.
 The fly in the ointment -- or perhaps it is more an elephant -- is the long-term fiscal picture. Increased government spending may be a good short-run fix, but it would add to the budget deficit. The baby boomers are now starting to retire and claim Social Security and Medicare benefits. Any increase in the national debt will make fulfilling those unfunded promises harder in coming years.
 Keynesian economists often dismiss these long-run concerns when the economy has short-run problems. ''In the long run we are all dead,'' Keynes famously quipped. 
 The longer-term problem we now face, however, may be more serious than any that Keynes ever envisioned. Passing a larger national debt to the next generation may look attractive to those without children. (Keynes himself was childless.) But the rest of us cannot feel much comfort knowing that, in the long run, when we are dead, our children and grandchildren will be dealing with our fiscal legacy.
 So what is to be done? Many economists still hope the Federal Reserve will save the day.
 In normal times, the Fed can bolster aggregate demand by reducing interest rates. Lower interest rates encourage households and companies to borrow and spend. They also bolster equity values and, by encouraging international capital to look elsewhere, reduce the value of the dollar in foreign-exchange markets. Spending on consumption, investment and net exports all increase.
 But these are not normal times. The Fed has already cut the federal funds rate to 1 percent, close to its lower bound of zero. Some fear that our central bank is almost out of ammunition.
 Fortunately, the Fed has a few secret weapons. It can set a target for longer-term interest rates. It can commit itself to keeping interest rates low for a sustained period. Most important, it can try to manage expectations and assure markets that it will do whatever it takes to avoid prolonged deflation. The Fed's decision last week to start buying mortgage debt shows its willingness to act creatively. 
 It is hard to say how successful monetary and fiscal policy will be in avoiding a deep downturn. But as events unfold, you can be sure that policymakers in the Fed and Treasury will be looking at them through a Keynesian lens.
 In 1936, Keynes wrote, ''Practical men, who believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influence, are usually the slave of some defunct economist.'' In 2008, no defunct economist is more prominent than Keynes himself. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RECESSION (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); HOME PRICES (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); US 401K PLANS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); CORPORATE BONDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1195 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
THE TENTH MUSE: My Life in Food, by Judith Jones. (Anchor, $14.95.) When Jones was growing up ''one wasn't supposed to talk about food at the table (it was considered crude, like talking about sex).'' That that is no longer so is due as much to Jones as anyone else; as a young editor at Knopf, she turned ''a huge manuscript'' by ''three totally unknown ladies'' into ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking,'' and helped bring about a revolution in the way Americans cook. As an editor, she midwived many now classic cookbooks; she also worked with writers like John Updike and Anne Tyler. Her memoir begins with her childhood and post-college days in Paris, where she tried to learn French cooking in her tiny kitchen, and ends with some 60 recipes. Jonathan Reynolds, who formerly wrote a column about food for The New York Times Magazine, uses recollections of meals cooked and eaten to structure his memoir. WRESTLING WITH GRAVY: A Life, With Food (Random House, $16) includes much of the material he presented in his 2002 one-man show, ''Dinner With Demons,'' during which he deep-fried a turkey every night. 
 THE HOLIDAY SEASON, by Michael Knight. (Grove, $14.) Knight's interest in the fraught dynamics of intimate life is on display in the two novellas that make up this book. In the title piece, a sometime actor in his 30s tries to bring his older brother and their widowed father together during the holidays. ''There is a long tradition of fiction using holiday gatherings as a vehicle for examining relationships under stress,'' our reviewer, Floyd Skloot, wrote. '' 'Holiday Season' joins this crowded table and . . . makes itself at home.'' 
 SALEM WITCH JUDGE: The Life and Repentance of Samuel Sewall, by Eve LaPlante. (HarperOne, $14.95.) As a judge at the Salem witch trials, Sewall condemned 20 people to death, but five years later, he publicly asked the pardon of men and God for his role. He went on to display a more pacific attitude toward the Indians and to publish the first antislavery tract to appear in North America. LaPlante, a direct descendant, examines Sewall's unusual trajectory in this touching biography. 
 SOLDIER'S HEART: Reading Literature Through Peace and War at West Point, by Elizabeth D. Samet. (Picador, $15.) Samet has written a ''thoughtful, attentive, stereotype-breaking book,'' in the words of our reviewer, Robert Pinsky, about her 10 years as a civilian teacher of literature at the Military Academy. Samet's students -- future officers, many of them bound for Iraq -- read Wilfred Owen and Tim O'Brien; her job, Pinsky says, is ''to offer them a context for valor.'' 
 THE BOTTOM BILLION: Why the Poorest Countries Are Failing and What Can Be Done About It, by Paul Collier. (Oxford University, $15.95.) Some 70 percent of the world's ''bottom billion'' people live in Africa. Collier, a former director of development research at the World Bank and director of the Center for Study of African Economies at Oxford, analyzes the causes of African poverty (imperialism, he says, isn't one of them) and suggests solutions. These include rich-country tariff exemptions for the products of poor countries and occasional foreign intervention in failed states. 
 AMERICAN CREATION: Triumphs and Tragedies at the Founding of the Republic, by Joseph J. Ellis. (Vintage, $14.95.) Focusing on loosely linked moments and issues, from Valley Forge to Indian policy to the Louisiana Purchase, Ellis argues that America's founding is a ''story line rooted in the coexistence of grace and sin, grandeur and failure, brilliance and blindness.'' UNRULY AMERICANS AND THE ORIGINS OF THE CONSTITUTION, by Woody Holton. (Hill & Wang, $15.) Holton's provocative case for the undemocratic origin and character of the Constitution highlights the activities of ''ordinary farmers'' who opposed its adoption. THE GREAT UPHEAVAL: America and the Birth of the Modern World, 1788-1800, by Jay Winik. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $17.95.) Winik suggests a link between the revolutionary events of the last decade of the 18th century in America and France and the nonrevolution in Russia; his account stresses personalities and leadership rather than socioeconomic forces.
 HOW TO READ THE BIBLE: A Guide to Scripture, Then and Now, by James L. Kugel. (Free Press, $18.95.) This ''awesome, thrilling and deeply strange book,'' as David Plotz described it in the Book Review, runs through the entire Hebrew Scriptures, comparing modern scholarship and ancient interpretation. Kugel, an emeritus professor of Hebrew literature at Harvard and an Orthodox Jew, aims to discredit literalists, but he also believes, Plotz said, that ''you can read the Bible rationally without losing God.'' THE FIVE BOOKS OF MOSES: A Translation With Commentary, by Robert Alter. (Norton, $24.95.) Alter grapples with the Bible as literature; in this ''remarkable translation,'' our reviewer, Judith Shulevitz, said, he reads ''with erudition and rigor and . . . keenest receptivity to its darker undertones.'' 
 THE TOOTHPICK: Technology and Culture, by Henry Petroski. (Vintage, $15.95.) The author of ''The Pencil, '' Petroski examines the toothpick as ''a technological and cultural artifact,'' and finds that ''the history of the toothpick is as old as mankind and as universal as eating.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1196 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS NEWARK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: A Bird's-Eye View Of Tomorrow

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
FROM her 20th-floor apartment in Newark, Toni Griffin can see a park designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and three apartment buildings by the great modernist architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. Newark, long a symbol of decay, is home to a number of such urban marvels.
 ''When I look out, I see great potential,'' said Ms. Griffin, 44, an urban planner hired by Newark's mayor, Cory A. Booker, as the city's director of community development. 
 Her first order of business when she took the job 18 months ago was to immerse herself in all things Newark. Required to live within the city limits, she wanted to be as close to the center as possible. But, she discovered, Newark's downtown is a commercial enclave, rather than a residential one, and the housing options there are few.
 Luckily for Ms. Griffin, a private developer had just converted a former office building into 317 rental apartments -- the first new luxury building in the city in more than 40 years.
 The building, called Eleven80 (for its address, 1180 Raymond Boulevard), has stunning Art Deco details inside and out. And it has new amenities -- including a basement bowling alley and a basketball court -- that would stand out even in Manhattan.
 Before choosing an apartment, Ms. Griffin looked at a dozen available units. Though she is adept at reading floor plans -- she studied architecture at Notre Dame before taking up urban planning -- she wanted to experience the light and the views.
 She settled on a north- and east-facing one-bedroom with a long gallerylike hallway and an open kitchen. From one spot in the kitchen, she can glimpse the Empire State Building, about 10 miles away. 
 Ms. Griffin has filled the apartment, for which she pays $2,200 a month, with modern furniture, including a Herman Miller dining set from the 1960s, which she found at a shop in Hudson, N.Y. 
 The table is square, which may be her favorite shape; it appears repeatedly in the artwork hanging on the walls. Most were done by Ms. Griffin in oil pastels, her preferred medium. Her other hobby is cooking; she tries to set aside Sunday afternoons to apply what she has learned from classes at the Institute of Culinary Education in Manhattan.
 Ms. Griffin, who was born in Chicago, came to Newark after seven years as a planner in Washington. Before that, she worked in Harlem for the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corporation. These days, she spends one day a week at Harvard, where she is a visiting critic at the Graduate School of Design. 
 The rest of the time, her domain is on the fourth floor of Newark's Beaux-Arts City Hall. There, her staff is working to complete a new master plan for the city and to update a zoning code created more than half a century ago.
 Among other things, the new code will require improvements to the blocky two-family houses -- the so-called Bayonne Boxes -- that have sprung up on many Newark streets.
 The larger goal is to position Newark, a walkable city with numerous transportation options, to absorb some of the population growth expected in the New York City area over the next few decades. In her previous jobs, in Washington and New York, Ms. Griffin said, ''I have been a witness to what introducing residential into a downtown can do to enliven a city.''
 Her own building is a case in point. At the time it opened, in the summer of 2006, it was seen as a test of whether people would choose to live in downtown Newark. Right now, says Arthur Stern, the chief executive of Cogswell Realty Group, the building's developer, 280, or nearly 90 percent, of its apartments are rented. Seventy-five percent of the building's tenants commute to Manhattan, and more than a third are single women, he said -- evidence, to Mr. Stern, that concerns about safety in downtown Newark have abated. 
 In the 18 months that she has been there, Ms. Griffin said, the number of people on the streets has increased. It helps downtown to have the Prudential Center, the 18,000-seat arena where Ms. Griffin attended her first New Jersey Devils hockey game, as well as the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, where she saw Jill Scott, the rhythm-and-blues singer and poet.
 ''It's like living in walking distance of Madison Square Garden and Lincoln Center,'' she said. Several Newark colleges have also been expanding -- and the presence of students helps keep the downtown lively.
 Still, central Newark has a long way to go to become a residential neighborhood. Right now, it doesn't even have a supermarket. (Ms. Griffin shops in the largely Portuguese-American Ironbound district.) She would also like to see ''more sit-down restaurants'' and a wider variety of shops.
 But the amenities at Eleven80 make up for some of what's missing outside. In addition to the bowling alley and basketball court, there is an extensive fitness center. And there are a series of lounges, decorated in the whimsical style of a boutique hotel, complete with plywood moose heads and a ''chandelier'' made of acrylic panels bearing photos of a chandelier.
 Ms. Griffin tries to see the downstairs spaces as extensions of her 800-square-foot apartment. Recently, she had her staff over for a bowling party. 
 It was a chance to experience the good life in Newark, something they hope there will be more of.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN TOWN: Toni Griffin, director of community development for Newark, lives high above her city in an office building turned apartment house. In her open kitchen, she practices what she has learned in cooking classes. Much of the artwork on the walls of her living room, below, was done by Ms. Griffin. The dining set is by Herman Miller. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); MAYORS (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (73%); BASKETBALL (65%); BOWLING CENTERS (51%)

COMPANY: HERMAN MILLER INC (56%)

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (56%); MHR (FRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (56%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (56%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (56%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1197 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: A Condo Checks Out, A Hotel Checks In

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE Jasper on East 32nd Street, which has dark wood paneling and a huge fireplace in the lobby, promised an ''unexpected blend of warmth and chic style,'' according to its Web site. But the condominium was in an unexpected place: a converted prewar office building on a commercial block in Murray Hill. 
 And for a time, the project, designed by Ishmael Leyva, attracted a steady stream of buyers drawn by the fine finishes, stylish pool and large fitness room, and prices below those in many other Manhattan neighborhoods.
 ''What market slowdown?'' gushed a newspaper account a year ago, announcing that contracts had been signed on 27 of the 80 apartments within three weeks.
 But with the economy faltering, sales at the project, at 114 East 32nd Street, between Park and Lexington Avenues, sputtered to a halt in the last few months, after a total of 43 apartments had gone into contract. 
 Last week, the developers, facing both an uncertain market and the need to provide several million dollars in new capital to cover cost overruns, decided to pull the plug on the condominium, and return the deposits of would-be buyers.
 Harry Jeremias, the founder of the Harch Group and the project's lead developer, said he had come to an agreement with a European investment fund to convert the 18-story building into a 200-room boutique hotel, to open in about a year. 
 The new plans, he said, will keep many of the features of the condominium, including the name Jasper, much of the lobby, the pool, the Peruvian walnut floors and the custom-made Waterworks fixtures. He said the current investors would retain a minority interest in the property.
 As a result, Mr. Jeremias said, the cost of converting the building to a hotel would come in well below the cost of building a similar hotel, though hotel occupancy and profits are likely to falter in the near future.
 ''We had a great product out there and a branding that was incredible,'' he said. ''Nobody anticipated the market taking such a dramatic shift. So now we will roll with it.''
 Shaun Osher, the founder and head of Core Group Marketing, which has been selling the Jasper apartments, said he had begun calling buyers to let them know that the condominium had been canceled and offering to help them find other apartments, although the change had not yet been filed with the attorney general's office as of last week. 
 Mr. Jeremias said that until now, only two buyers had sought to back out of contracts -- one had been transferred overseas, and the other was a former employee of Bear Stearns, which collapsed in September.
 Now, he said, while buyers may be frustrated about losing a ''beautiful project,'' many will also be relieved of the uncertainty of finding a mortgage and completing a purchase in the current market.
 When things go wrong in Manhattan, ''there is a Plan B and a Plan C,'' Mr. Jeremias said. ''In a lot of different markets throughout the country, they don't have a Plan B or a Plan C.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Jasper (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); WEB SITES (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1198 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2283 words

HEADLINE: A Village Down the Block

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
SOME New Yorkers never get to know their neighbors.
 They nod hello, but rarely speak, and they certainly don't break bread with them. Even names may remain a mystery, unless an errant letter finds its way into the wrong mailbox.
 This is precisely the New York that a group of Brooklyn residents hopes to escape.
 They plan to do so by pooling their resources to build a project that will be not just an apartment building, but a community that more cynical New Yorkers may consider unachievably utopian. 
 They envision an arrangement called ''cohousing,'' a place where neighbors sit down to share meals several times a week, where children roam freely from home to home, and where grown-ups can hang out in a communal living room. They plan, in short, to create a village within a single development, and their chosen site is in the middle of a tree-lined brownstone block in Fort Greene. 
 The group, which has been incorporated as Brooklyn Cohousing L.L.C., is in contract to buy an unfinished project known as Carlton Mews, whose developers had planned 40 high-end condominiums. The developers drew up plans for apartments surrounding a common courtyard, with the units to be built in an long-abandoned Episcopal church, its former rectory and a new building with a facade that mimics the stately town houses on the block.
 Brooklyn Cohousing has bought the rights to the site, the plans and all the city approvals that the developers spent two years amassing, including a go-ahead from the Landmarks Preservation Commission. The group hasn't settled on a project name yet, but it plans to build more modest apartments than the original developers intended and to fill them with families whose lives revolve around the courtyard and 6,000 square feet of common space where residents can cook together, play together, do woodworking or take an art class together.
 And they plan to do it all through consensus, with some 40 households jointly deciding things like how big their shared dining room should be and what kind of finishes to put in the private kitchens in their apartments. The goal is to create a place that has a thriving community life, but where everyone can choose to be as private or social as he or she desires.
 It would be one of New York City's first cohousing projects, although there are examples in Ithaca and Saugerties. There are about 110 such projects in the United States and Canada, most in suburban or rural settings. A handful of urban ones exist in Boston, Seattle and Oakland, Calif.
 The recent economic downturn may actually have created an opportunity for this type of project. 
 A developer who can sell an entire project to a single entity runs a lower risk than one who has to sell individual units. Banks may also appreciate that while a developer may have trouble selling unbuilt condos, the cohousing group expects to sell almost all of the project before construction begins. 
 ''In many ways, this will just be an apartment building,'' said Alex Marshall, a fellow at the Regional Plan Association who as a founding member began researching cohousing five years ago. ''But what will make it different is the intention -- that all the members have chosen to live here together in this way.''
 Fort Greene's cohousing apartments, to range from studios to four-bedrooms, will sell for about the market rate. But they will have less square footage than most similar New York apartments. Kitchens and living rooms will be smaller because residents can use the common spaces for entertaining. There will also be no need for spare bedrooms because members will be able to use guest rooms for visiting in-laws and friends.
 The Brooklyn group so far has 14 member households, which each have committed $20,000 to $40,000, and in some cases much more, to help pay for consultants and to finance the down payment for the site. It also has about 25 associates, or households that have paid $500 and agreed to attend weekly meetings. Mr. Marshall said the hope was to get enough full members to complete the purchase and get a construction loan to start building next spring so that families can move in by early 2010.
 The group's Web site warns that ''the project involves a high degree of risk and is not recommended for persons who do not have a substantial net worth or who cannot afford to lose any membership fees that may be paid.'' And before becoming a full member, an associate must meet with the group's ''clearness committee,'' which thoroughly explains the project.
 ''You're not buying an apartment,'' Mr. Marshall said. ''You're becoming a legal member of a community and sharing in the costs and risks of building it.''
 Associates can spend as little as two hours a week at general meetings, but full members, like Mr. Marshall and his wife, Kristi Barlow, a documentary film editor, often spend more than 20 hours a week preparing for and attending various committee meetings. 
 Ms. Barlow said that when their son Max, 4, was born, ''it became pretty clear that living as a nuclear family on our own in New York City was not going to be ideal.'' Shortly after moving to Prospect Heights, they posted fliers for a meet-your-neighbors event.
 ''Except for the one neighbor that we had already gotten to know, nobody came,'' Ms. Barlow said. ''Not all buildings are like that, but that told us very clearly that you can't always create a community where you are.''
 When Mr. Marshall started researching cohousing, he learned that it began in Denmark in its current form, arriving in the United States in the late 1980s.
 The Brooklyn group became a legal corporation with four founding families last January and two months later hired Chris ScottHanson, a consultant who has worked on about 40 cohousing projects across the country. He has schooled the members on the consensus process, steered them through site selection and helped negotiate the deal with Carlton Mews; he will also act as a project manager through construction.
 Mr. ScottHanson said that the Carlton Mews site was ideal for cohousing. ''On a scale of 1 to 10 for cohousing models, it's an 11.5,'' he said, citing ''a courtyard in the middle,'' ''adaptive reuse of a church, renovation of an old town house and new construction'' and its site, where ''you can look down the street from the roof and see the Empire State Building.'' 
 He said that since the group settled on Carlton Mews, he has been approached by four other Brooklyn developers looking to sell their projects. ''There are developers telling me they cannot get construction funding because they don't have buyers they can point at and show the banks,'' he said.
 Last spring, as the credit crisis started translating into fewer construction loans, Doug Mcdonald, a developer of Carlton Mews, sought out the group after hearing about it from a friend. ''What they're doing fits in with what we designed,'' he said. ''We were clever enough to put our lifeboats together and make the deal work for both sides.''
 Neither he nor Mr. ScottHanson would discuss what the group is paying for the project, but the amount is probably significantly more than the $10.5 million that the developers of Carlton Mews paid for the site, since the group is also buying the development plans and the work the developers had put in to secure the building permits. 
 The group hopes to gather people from diverse backgrounds, age groups and socioeconomic levels. Most of the members are white; there are two Asian-Americans and one African-American.
 Carl Robichaud, a program officer at the Carnegie Corporation of New York who lives with his wife, Elsie Kagan, an artist, in a house in South Park Slope that they recently renovated, said he was hooked from his first meeting last spring. ''What struck me was that the people seemed really grounded and sensible,'' he said. ''It wasn't a pie-in-the-sky group of hippie idealists -- not that there's anything wrong with that. But there was a real entrepreneurial spirit that captured me.''
 He and Ms. Kagan are expecting a child, and he said he liked the idea of living in a place where people feel connected to one another and where children have many adult mentors in their lives. He said he figured creating a community in his current neighborhood would take 10 years, ''and we feel we need to kick-start it -- we want that now.''
 Marion Yuen, a business strategist and one of the founding members, said that having served as president of a small co-op in Park Slope, she saw the limitations in a building where ''you might have friendly neighbors, but people's inclination to participate and be collaborative varies.'' With cohousing, she said, everyone will ''want to deliberately and consciously play with everyone else and play nice.'' 
 But how can a group of strangers brought together by the prospect of living in harmony be sure that they will all like one another?
 Lissa Wolfe, who works at a sailing school, owns a house in Red Hook and became a full member five months ago, said that the group had essentially been self-selecting. The consensus process and the development process can be so rigorous, she said, that people figure out pretty quickly if they want to stick around to see how it all turns out. 
 There is at least one other household, though, that Ms. Wolfe will know well. Her parents, Sue and Joel Wolfe, decided to join the group after attending several meetings ''just to be supportive.'' Sue Wolfe, a retired Bloomingdale's executive, said that the project appealed to her immediately, but that her husband, a retired chef, was originally reluctant to leave the Boerum Hill house where they have lived since 1975. ''But then he fell in love, too,'' she said.
 Weekly general meetings start off with the ''opening go-round,'' where everyone gathers in a circle and says something personal. At a recent meeting, that included the informative: ''I've been traveling and it's good to be back''; the emotive: ''I'm doing good tonight''; and the slightly offbeat: ''I just saw 'High School Musical 3' with my daughter and her friends.''
 But meeting agendas allow only 10 minutes for this, and the group quickly gets down to business, with everyone wearing a name tag and toting a ring with six colored cards. The card system is the tool used to reach consensus.
 It can be daunting for a first-timer. When a facilitator calls for consensus, members hold up cards to signify their positions on an issue. Green means the holder agrees with the decision; blue means he or she is neutral; yellow, is unsure or unclear; orange, has serious reservations but will not block consensus; and red, will block consensus. The group recently added a white card to signify ''I'm not up to speed on this issue because I didn't do my homework.''
 Mr. Robichaud said that ''after a meeting or two you get the hang of the different colors.''
 What becomes clear after a few meetings is that nothing gets decided quickly. ''When you live by consensus, it shifts how you function with people,'' Mr. Marshall said. ''You really have to take your time and listen to people.''
 No one wants to be the odd person out, he noted, so when someone takes a stand, he or she usually feels very strongly about an issue. ''And sometimes the odd person out turns out to be right,'' he said.
 Discussions ''can get very emotional and people have cried and yelled,'' Ms. Yuen said. The facilitator -- there are several -- tries to break the issue down and help the group resolve the disagreement. ''It's about strangers living together and learning intimacy,'' she said.
 But given how hard it is for a married couple to work through all the decisions that must be made to build a home, designing a building to please 40 households, each with the power to stop the project in its tracks, may seem herculean.
 Ken Levenson, the architect who designed Carlton Mews and who has been hired to redesign the interior space, said that he was apprehensive about the consensus process. ''But it's actually turned out to be less time-consuming than working with developers,'' he said. ''It's counterintuitive, but when a decision is made here, it's really made. They can only speak to me as a group, but when you work with developers, any one of the partners can call you every day with another idea.''
 The size of the great room was one of the most contentious issues so far. Most members wanted a room that could comfortably seat the entire community for dinner. Ms. Barlow, fearing that other common amenities would be sacrificed, pushed for a smaller room. 
 Mr. Levenson said that after a fair amount of back and forth, the group reached a compromise. A common living room was eliminated, and the 1,600-square-foot great room will now serve as a dining and living room. (There will also be a separate adults-only lounge and two children's playrooms.)
 ''It was the right thing for the group,'' Ms. Barlow said. ''I didn't feel defeated, because through the process I saw that I was really the only one that wanted the smaller space, and in retrospect I think the community was smarter than me.''
 When it comes to the last-minute decisions that invariably arise during construction as contractors discover that a particular type of kitchen cabinet or countertop is no longer available, the group will leave it to the professionals. 
 ''We have decided as a group to not be involved during construction,'' Ms. Barlow said. ''We'll do the conceptual design work and give the architectural team direction on wood floors and color palettes we want and then just let go and let them execute it.''
 The alternative, she said, could be a costly and painful process.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM-SCRATCH COMMUNITY: Alex Marshall, top, strolls a former church property that he and other members of a group called Brooklyn Cohousing hope will one day be the site of an urban village, rendered above by Levenson McDavid Architects. At their meetings, members of Brooklyn Cohousing vote with colored cards. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP, RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BOTTOM, MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE1)
TOWARD TOGETHERNESS: Plans call for the interior of an old church to be restored and incorporated into the complex. Top, the project currently involves meetings, not mortar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP, MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BOTTOM, RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); FAMILY (74%); CHILDREN (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1199 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; RISKY BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Suffering Campaign Withdrawal? See Below

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
After months of feasting off a campaign that provided them endless material, the writers at ''Saturday Night Live'' could be forgiven if they felt a little out of sorts over how to open their show last weekend. Simply penciling in Tina Fey for a Sarah Palin bit was no longer the obvious call now that the election was over. 
 But then the Big Three auto chiefs flew to Washington to ask Congress for a bailout. The spectacle of the hearings provided enough material for an eight-minute opening sketch, including an explanation from a C.E.O. about why they were late: ''The three of us decided to drive here from Detroit, but we had car trouble.''
 What's true for comedy writers is true for the blogosphere, talk shows and the opinion pages of newspapers: The crisis in the auto industry is helping to fill a void left by the end of the long presidential race. 
 It has also rekindled debate over many of the big issues of the campaign. Arguments have touched on the environment, national security, American identity, small-town values, the role of government and, of course, the need for change. 
 ''The American automobile industry,'' said Charlie Rose, framing the conversation on a recent show, ''is a uniquely American part of the American culture and part of the American experience.''
 As the Big Three's problems worsen, the nation is picking sides. It sometimes seems as if the Bail-Them-Out Party is running against the No-Bailout Party. 
 Other trappings of the presidential race are falling into place. 
 There are public relations gaffes. The decision by the chief executives to fly to Washington on their corporate jets provided an easy punch line for their critics in the hearings.
 Studies are quoted, and then questioned by truth squads. One 2003 study cited by the Bail-Them-Out-Party says that the collapse of a Detroit carmaker would be catastrophic because one in 10 jobs is supported by the auto industry. But that ratio can easily slide up or down depending on what one considers a ''related'' job. The study, by the Center for Automotive Research, includes taxi driving, for example.
 Opinions are in great demand, as well, particularly those with fresh, if occasionally puzzling, theories. One Op-Ed article in The New York Times last week suggested that all three Detroit companies should file for bankruptcy at the same time because ''a coordinated filing would send a message that the problem is systemic -- not an indication that American manufacturers produce inferior cars and trucks.'' But why would consumers think the problem is systemic if none of the foreign brands are filing for bankruptcy?
 Finally, arguments, particularly from the Bail-Them-Out Party, rely heavily on a familiar strategy from the 2008 campaign -- frequently invoking the call of ''America,'' ''American'' and ''this nation.''
 ''We are, and will continue to be, the quintessential American car company,'' Robert Nardelli, Chrysler's chairman, said in his Congressional testimony.
 The Bail-Them-Out Party has more talking points, because it is arguing that more is at stake than when other industries are forced into wrenching restructurings. 
 The retired Army general (and one-time presidential candidate) Wesley K. Clark has argued that Detroit deserves federal assistance because the American military needs a strong industrial base to help meet future challenges. 
 And don't forget the automakers' role in the country's history. On his blog, AutoExtremist.com, which is widely read in Detroit, Peter M. De Lorenzo noted that the industry was ''the manufacturing powerhouse that forged this nation's middle class and once powered the 'Arsenal of Democracy' in WWII.'' 
 The No-Bailout Party's platform is tough love. It wants a healthy and competitive American auto industry, too, but not one at taxpayers' expense. ''Without that bailout, Detroit will need to drastically restructure itself,'' wrote Mitt Romney in a recent Op-Ed piece in The Times. But if they receive federal help, he added, ''the automakers will stay the course -- the suicidal course of declining market shares, insurmountable labor and retiree burdens, technology atrophy, product inferiority and never-ending job losses. Detroit needs a turnaround, not a check.''
 David Yermack, a business professor, wrote in The Wall Street Journal under the headline ''Just Say No to Detroit,'' that any bailout would be wasted. ''We would do better to set this money on fire rather than using it to keep these dying firms on life support, setting them up for even more money-losing investments in the future,'' he wrote.
 If the crisis of the car companies mirrors many of the themes of the campaign -- jobs, change, America's ability to compete in the world market -- it also makes for rich and pointed discussion. It is a vexing question -- what to do about Detroit? -- in part because there are grains of truth in both sides of the debate. Detroit has taken drastic steps to restructure, as the C.E.O.'s noted in considerable detail during the Congressional hearings. Their cars are better. But the companies often appear a step or two behind foreign competitors, which helps explain why Detroit is losing market share so quickly. 
 American vehicles are a reflection of our culture, and it is hard to imagine their disappearance. But one reason sales have fallen steadily is that many of their designs are out of step with the times, forcing the companies to scramble to overhaul their product lines for a more energy-conscious era. 
 The United Auto Workers did help lift millions into middle-class lives, and those gains are being lost as the union's membership shrinks. But the protections and benefits its workers enjoy seem outdated when so many industries are laying off tens of thousands of workers. 
 These issues can be debated endlessly, as were questions this year over which party would better lead America. The larger financial crisis is also getting enormous attention and undermining Americans' economic security. But it is less comprehensible to many Americans. Derivatives are far more perplexing than what ails Detroit. Besides, there are no clear alternatives to having the government print more money to help stop the fall in home values and the stock market.
 The fate of Detroit may fall to President-elect Barack Obama to sort out. For now, until he moves into the White House, Mr. Obama seems to be staking out a middle ground. He has said that the country can't allow the auto industry to vanish: But he has also said the government won't be writing a blank check to the carmakers. ''You guys need to come up with a plan and come back before you're getting any taxpayer money,'' he said. 
 So far, Mr. Obama and many lawmakers do not seem convinced that the industry is doing enough to turn itself around and have urged the car makers to come up with a more aggressive plan. 
 The parallels to the campaign are obvious to Alex Castellanos, a media strategist for Mr. Romney's campaign, as he watches public perceptions and the debate over Detroit evolve. ''The auto industry, of course, is the new McCain,'' he said in an interview. ''The auto industry is old America. It's stuck. It's one thing we haven't been able to move into the future.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) (pg.WK2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (58%); TINA FEY (58%); CHARLIE ROSE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008



1200 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Nonfiction Chronicle

BYLINE: Reviews by J. COURTNEY SULLIVAN. 
J. Courtney Sullivan works in the editorial department at The Times. Her first novel, ''Commencement,'' will be published in June.

 BODY:
GIRL BOY GIRL How I Became JT LeRoy. By Savannah Knoop. Seven Stories, paper, $17.95.
 A handful of impostors and frauds have given memoir a bad rap recently. And Knoop doesn't inspire much confidence in the genre with a preface that includes this disclaimer: ''Any factual errors are unintentional.'' Well, as long as she's upfront about it. In 2006, The New York Times revealed that the homeless adolescent prostitute turned novelist JT LeRoy (beloved by Tatum O'Neal, Courtney Love and other celebrities known for their sound judgment) never really existed. A woman named Laura Albert was the actual author. 
The person who had appeared publicly as LeRoy for six years -- decked out in a goofy wig and sunglasses -- was Albert's sister-in-law, Knoop, a college dropout who was busing tables before taking on the role. The reader longs to know what Knoop's friends and family thought of this arrangement, and what happened after the truth came out. But she offers little detail about the non-JT parts of her life in ''Girl Boy Girl'' and spends the bulk of her time chronicling the celebrities she fooled and the things they ate together. (Oysters Rockefeller with Gus Van Sant! Chocolate chip pancakes at Carrie Fisher's house!) She can't seem to decide whether she's a willing participant or a hapless victim, so she paints Albert as both co-conspirator and manipulative mastermind. Knoop's love of fashion provides a leitmotif and ultimately turns into a career. If this were an ''E! True Hollywood Story,'' the final minutes would have shots of her sketching dresses while a voice-over informed us that she'd finally found her calling. This sort of pat ending is hardly ever satisfying, but the woman who became notorious for portraying the surface level of LeRoy is willing to show us only so much of herself. 
 REPUTATION Portraits in Power. By Marjorie Williams. Edited by Timothy Noah. PublicAffairs, $26.95.
 Best known for her political profiles in The Washington Post and Vanity Fair, Williams died of liver cancer at 47 in 2005. Later that year, her husband, the journalist Timothy Noah, published ''The Woman at the Washington Zoo,'' a collection of her work that combined her trademark essays with personal reflections on motherhood, marriage and mortality. ''Reputation'' gives us more political profiles, featuring everyone from Lee Atwater to Colin Powell to James Carville and Mary Matalin (in an essay perfectly titled ''Tristan & Isolde, LLC''). Williams observes her subjects with a winning mix of cynicism and compassion, humor and wisdom. The intimate details she highlights are telling: Terry McAuliffe networks at a Washington Post party while his wife is in labor; Larry King talks of his impending nuptials ''as if he were not a man whose best friend has observed that he marries so often he has rice scars.'' Reading through this brilliant collection brings on a feeling of loss: we don't know what Williams might have thought about the political landscape of 2008. No doubt, her essay on Sarah Palin would have been the stuff of legend. 
 7 DEADLY SINS A Very Partial List. By Aviad Kleinberg. Belknap/Harvard University, $22.95.
 Originally published in Hebrew, Kleinberg's lively and engaging essay collection rests on the premise that sin is a cultural construct, shifting with the rules and conventions of a given society. Envy, for example, was once considered wicked in nonindustrial civilizations but is now the main motivation for keeping up with the Joneses; this is a good thing, for without it, there would be no economic growth. (''It is perhaps wrong to covet the ass and cow of your neighbor, but it is highly recommended to want an ass and a cow of the very same model.'') Kleinberg, a history professor at Tel Aviv University, draws on religious and nonreligious texts in ''7 Deadly Sins'' (which was translated by Susan Emanuel in collaboration with the author), and he explores religion, sex and economics in search of explanations for what constitutes sin. He avoids other possibilities, though, like the role that modern social movements have played in changing what it means to be good. In the final pages, he writes of the United States and Israel: ''We develop morality in reverse. Since we are moral, benign, enlightened nations, the fact that we chose to do something is the best proof of its morality. Deny basic human rights? Invade other countries? Abrogate signed agreements? There must have been good reasons.'' Known for his criticisms of the Israeli military and for his opposition to the war in Iraq, Kleinberg seems to conclude that above all else, war and retaliation will be the sins that mark our time. 
 VERSAILLES A Biography of a Palace. By Tony Spawforth. St. Martin's, $29.95.
 For any tourist who has visited the Palace of Versailles and wondered about the generations of royals who lived there, Spawforth's well-researched book offers an illuminating portrait. Built by Louis XIII in 1623 as a retreat, and expanded to its present opulent condition by his son, Versailles remained a royal residence until the French Revolution broke out.In 1661, when a minister of finance gave a party in a chateau to rival the king's, Louis XIV had him thrown in jail, ''where he remained without trial until his death''; shortly thereafter, Louis hired his architect and garden designer. Under Louis XIV, ''gardeners changed the beds continually, sometimes even daily, by digging hundreds of thousands of stoneware flowerpots directly into the soil.'' Several thousand people lived at Versailles at any one time, and the importance of social rank was clear: here, aristocrats with servants at home waited on members of the court. If the details that Spawforth, a British historian, provides in ''Versailles'' sometimes border on too much information, he makes up for it with vivid stories about the royals' personal choices and the ensuing architectural changes. (Marie Antoinette demanded a system of locks that allowed her to bolt her bedroom doors from the bed, furthering rumors of infidelity.) The extravagance of Versailles initially created the 17th-century equivalent of buzz, but would come to enrage the people of France. Even so, Spawforth notes, the museum opened ''to great fanfare'' in 1837, a sign that the same royals who had both intrigued and appalled the common folk continued to do so a generation later. Indeed, they still do today.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARRWORLD: OBJECTS AND POSTCARDS. By Martin Parr. Illustrated. 512 pp. Aperture. $89.95. ''I have a very strong collecting gene,'' says the British photographer Parr, whose trove of ephemera, as displayed in the ''Objects'' half of this two-volume set, includes dozens of Saddam Hussein wristwatches. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); MARRIAGE (72%); CANCER (50%); LIVER DISEASE (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Girl Boy Girl (Book)>; Reputation (Book)>; 7 Deadly Sins (Book)>; Versailles (Book)>; Parrworld (Book)>; Girl Boy Girl (Book)>; Reputation (Book)>; 7 Deadly Sins (Book)>; Versailles (Book)>; Parrworld (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

 
