

1 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: In Puerto Rican Town, Navy Is History, the Future Hazy

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Terry Aguayo contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CEIBA, P.R., March 31 

 BODY:
The people of this coastal hamlet never resented making room for the American military, unlike their neighbors on Vieques, the island where the Navy conducted bombing exercises until last year. Roosevelt Roads Naval Station, which opened here in 1943 and later supported the Vieques operations, had long pumped money into the town of 14,000 and kept it lively.
 So when Congress and President Bush decided last summer to close the base on March 31, much faster than the typical shutdown of a military post, many here feared the worst. That is, until they decided they might have a golden real estate opportunity on their hands. 
 Now, as the rambling base on Puerto Rico's northeastern coast goes dark, taking with it 1,300 civilian jobs and the $300 million a year that it had pumped into the Puerto Rican economy, the people of Ceiba are breathlessly polishing proposals to redevelop its 8,600 acres. They, along with the administration of Gov. Sila M. Calderon, envision a port for cruise ships and an aquarium where battleships once docked, a regional trauma center on the old naval hospital site, kayaking tours through the mangrove swamps and posh housing along the waterfront, which affords views of Vieques, the Virgin Islands and the fog-veiled mountains of El Yunque rain forest.
 And that is only the beginning. 
 ''If the base is going to be redeveloped, we have to redevelop the town, too,'' said Horacio Hernandez, who heads one of the community groups submitting ideas for the property. ''Like the restaurants: now we have Burger King, simple Puerto Rican food; we need a steakhouse, a lobster place. We need to be more attractive, more special.''
 A year ago, nobody was expecting this kind of upheaval, at least not so soon. The Navy abandoned Vieques last May, after years of passionate protest from residents who said the bombing had contaminated their idyllic island and made many of them ill, and from American politicians and movie stars who supported their cause. Soon afterward, Congress passed a bill to close Rosey Roads, as the base is known, within six months of enactment and put the vast, horseshoe-shaped property up for sale. The president signed the legislation in September.
 Many in Puerto Rico saw the move as retaliation for the longtime opposition to the Vieques operations, but the Navy said that without Vieques, it simply had no use for Roosevelt Roads. When the Puerto Rican government protested plans for the sale, however, Congress agreed to shut down Rosey Roads under standard base-closing procedures, which give the affected community a say in the property's fate.
 Now Puerto Rican leaders say that what happens to Rosey Roads and Ceiba (pronounced SAY-bah) can be a model for the wave of base closings around the country that the Defense Department is to propose to an independent base-closing commission next year.
 There is a difference, though: the Pentagon usually allows three to five years for a closing, giving the community time to adjust. ''Nobody has ever had to deal with this collapsed a time frame before,'' said David MacKinnon, associate director of the department's Office of Economic Adjustment. ''They are responding admirably to a very difficult schedule.''
 Which is not to say things will go smoothly from here. Like the Navy property on Vieques, Roosevelt Roads is environmentally contaminated, partly from the tanks that refueled ships off the base's nine piers and planes on its 11,000-foot runway. Though a study is under way, Puerto Rican officials say that at this point no one knows the extent of the damage or how expensive a cleanup would be. Recent newspaper accounts of the contamination enraged the Puerto Rico Independence Party, long the loudest opponent of the island's status as a United States commonwealth.
 Factors other than the environmental issue could also affect the fate of the property. Governor Calderon is stepping down this year, and a heated race to succeed her is on. A victory by former Gov. Pedro Rosello of the New Progressive Party, the chief opponent of Ms. Calderon's Popular Democratic Party, could mean a scrapping of the plan that her administration put together. In an interview, Mr. Rosello said his vision for the property was of a terminal where large ships coming from points south could transfer goods to smaller ships.
 ''That would be a good alternative,'' he said, ''to make Puerto Rico a significant point in world shipping.''
 Some predict that whoever wins the election, ambitious plans will stagnate, as they did after Ramey Air Force Base, on Puerto Rico's western coast, closed in the early 1970's, devastating the town of Aguadilla.
 Others, like Karebee Tirado, who works at a rental car outlet outside town, are not much fond of the big plans to begin with. Ms. Tirado said new tourist attractions on the base property would only further squeeze mom-and-pop business downtown.
 Michelle Hoffman, a native of Pittsburgh who opened Splash Tattoo near the base's main gate in 1995, said she had lost more than half her business since last summer and had fired her staff of three tattoo artists.
 Yet Ms. Hoffman, 38, is not among those mourning the Navy's departure. She has built up enough of a local clientele to survive, she said, and prefers Puerto Rican clients anyway.
 ''I don't think many local people like the military,'' she said. ''They wanted to be catered to, waited on, and acted like they were better than everyone here. They bought a lot of stuff, but that's it.'' 
 There was no joy, however, on the face of Ruth Morales, Ms. Hoffman's receptionist, as she told of previously earning $70 or more a day doing laundry for federal officials who were on visits to the base or driving them to the San Juan airport.
 ''Everyone in Ceiba owes a big thanks to the Navy,'' said Ms. Morales, who worked on the base for 15 years. ''It was something secure for us. Now everything is dead.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the closing of a Navy base in Puerto Rico misspelled the surname of the former governor who said he would like to see the property become a shipping terminal. He is Pedro Rossello, not Rosello. Because of an editing error, a front-page picture caption in some copies misstated the location of the base. It is in Ceiba, not on the island of Vieques, where Navy bombing exercises set off years of conflict.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The people of Ceiba, P.R., have big plans for Roosevelt Roads Naval Station, which officially closed yesterday, but stumbling blocks remain.
 Though she has lost much of the tattooing business she built starting in 1995, Michelle Hoffman says she is not sorry to see the Navy leave. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)Map of Puerto Rico highlighting Vieques: The base, opened in 1943, later supported operations on Vieques.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NAVIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUISES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); MARINE VESSELS (67%); TRAUMA CENTERS (67%); TRENDS (60%); BOATING & RAFTING (52%) Shutdowns (Institutional); Area Planning and Renewal; Bombs and Explosives; United States Armament and Defense; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Unemployment; Roosevelt Roads Naval Station; Military Bases and Installations

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICK PERRY (56%) Abby Goodnough; Terry Aguayo

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Puerto Rico; Vieques (Puerto Rico); Ceiba (Puerto Rico); Puerto Rico

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



2 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3; BLOCKS

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: The Streets (Around Wall Street) Belong to the People

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
''AT the present time, a private police force controls the public streets in the vicinity of the New York Stock Exchange,'' Justice Walter B. Tolub of State Supreme Court wrote last month.
 ''The specter of private police forces patrolling public streets is unacceptable,'' he concluded, ''and private entities may not take the law into their own hands, no matter how well intentioned.''
 Most New Yorkers may be too inured to the proliferation of checkpoints, or too concerned about the prospect of new attacks, to take issue with the fact that vehicles in an eight-block area downtown come and go at the discretion of the Stock Exchange. Or they may have assumed that the roadblocks are operated by the Police Department. 
 But it turns out that the blockades, though begun by the police after the 2001 attack, have since passed into the hands of the exchange without any evident formalities. While no one wants a security policy that proves too lax, it seems reasonable to ask how decisions are being made that -- in the name of security -- diminish the public sphere.
 The blockades create what Deputy Chief John Colgan of the police counterterrorism bureau calls the ''minimum acceptable standoff to defend against vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices.'' They were set up at Broadway and Wall Street, Broadway and Exchange Place, New and Beaver Streets, Nassau and Pine Streets, Broad and Beaver Streets, William and Wall Streets and William Street and Exchange Place.
 At the Broadway intersections, retractable posts called bollards are now being installed as part of an overall streetscape improvement financed largely by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. Another blockade has been supplanted by a concrete barrier.
 The blockades consist of two pickup trucks, laden with sand, parked diagonally or perpendicular to the roadway. At the entry checkpoints, one truck pulls aside to admit a vehicle. The second truck will not pull aside until the vehicle has been inspected by a private security guard and an explosive-sniffing dog.
 ''There's no probable cause to stop anybody and conduct a search on public streets,'' said Stephen F. Harmon of Jenkens & Gilchrist Parker Chapin, the lawyers for Joseph Vassallo, who sued the exchange. Mr. Vassallo asserts that the blockades and more recent street work have effectively ruined his parking garage business on Exchange Place.
 Leonard Grunstein, another lawyer for Mr. Vassallo, said: ''Streets are inalienable. You can't give them away. And if you do, it's the City Council that decides. And even the City Council's rights are circumscribed.''
 So who said that the Stock Exchange could control the streets around it?
 That was what Justice Tolub asked one of the exchange's lawyers, Douglas W. Henkin of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, at a hearing last month.
 ''What has happened is not that the N.Y.S.E. has closed off those streets,'' Mr. Henkin said, according to the transcript, ''but the N.Y.S.E. has manned those closures at the behest of the N.Y.P.D., following their initial closures by the N.Y.P.D.''
 ''So, you have an official request from the N.Y.P.D. asking you to man those posts?'' Justice Tolub asked.
 ''You mean in writing?'' Mr. Henkin replied. ''No.''
 On March 12, Justice Tolub enjoined the exchange from maintaining the blockades, saying, ''No formal authority appears to have been given to the N.Y.S.E. to maintain these blockades and/or conduct security searches at these checkpoints.''
 That order was quickly stayed by Justice Richard T. Andrias of the Appellate Division until arguments can be heard in June. The exchange plans to file its brief next week, said Ray Pellecchia, a spokesman. Otherwise, he said, ''As a matter of policy, we don't comment on pending litigation.''
 NONE of this is to imply that the Police Department opposes the blockades. Quite the contrary, it regards them as essential, according to an affidavit from Chief Colgan in support of the exchange.
 Chief Colgan described the Stock Exchange as a ''highly attractive target of opportunity'' and said that a successful attack ''would produce catastrophic, cascading impact with devastating consequences to public safety and economic interests.''
 ''Experience and research demonstrate that terrorists avoid 'hardened' targets, which are targets that have been reinforced with barriers and other deterrents,'' he wrote.
 Chief Colgan concluded: ''It is critical to the continued security of the N.Y.S.E. and the surrounding area that the checkpoints currently in place be maintained. If the N.Y.S.E. is enjoined from maintaining any of the above-referenced security checkpoints, the N.Y.P.D. will need to staff these checkpoints with its own personnel.''
 When the exchange's lawyer reminded Justice Tolub of the need for security measures, the transcript reports the judge saying: ''I agree 100 percent in that regard. O.K.? That having been said, I still can't find a legal authority for a private entity to hire its own vigilante group to block a street.''
 Later, Mr. Henkin said, ''The issue, though, your Honor, is they're doing it at the behest of the police, not as a vigilante organization with no oversight.''
 But the document saying so has yet to appear.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A checkpoint controls truck traffic at Broad and Beaver Streets, a block and a half south of the New York Stock Exchange. A judge ruled that private police forces regulating city streets are illegal. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)Map of Manhattan shows the New York Stock Exchange: There are checkpoints at eight intersections in the financial district.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PROBABLE CAUSE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); CITIES (74%); DOGS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); COUNTERTERRORISM (51%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



3 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Films: Have Hard Drive, Will Travel

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 31 

 BODY:
For years independent cinema has been a big-city phenomenon, the non-Hollywood movies available only in major urban centers and -- perhaps -- on cable. 
 Now a New York-based company is trying to take art-house movies to small cities around the country by relying on digital projection. The company, Emerging Pictures, has sent computer hard drives to theaters in five cities to coincide with the opening on April 1 of the Full Frame Documentary Film Festival in Durham, N.C. 
 The hard drives, which can be connected to inexpensive digital projectors, contain 10 digital films from the documentary festival. The movies will be shown simultaneously in theaters in Grand Rapids and Kalamazoo, Mich.; Lincoln, Neb.; Charleston, W.Va.; and Sarasota, Fla., in addition to Durham. 
 The theaters are at museums, science centers and universities that not only have underused spaces but also built-in audiences through their membership lists. 
 The idea is to show high-quality movies to people who usually cannot see them because of the huge cost of movie prints and marketing budgets, explained Ira Deutchman, a partner in Emerging Pictures. 
 ''A lot of really quality films can never get mainstream distribution,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''Those films left on the table can't find a way to reach theatrical audiences with the current economic model. We're trying to bust through this problem of how much you have to spend on prints and advertising to get your film out there.'' 
 Distribution has been a persistent problem in independent film. Independent producers and filmmakers have long believed that audiences in the American heartland were willing to pay to see small, interesting movies like last year's ''Thirteen'' or the unusually animated ''Tripletes of Belleville,'' which were both nominated for Oscars. 
 But only major art-house distributors like Miramax or Focus Features have had the cash to release such movies, and even those that are released often do not earn enough to justify the costs. 
 ''I'm a big believer that the audience does exist,'' Mr. Deutchman said. ''It may not exist in numbers necessary to make it a business to attract a big studio, but that doesn't mean there isn't an audience.'' 
 With digital technology each package of 10 films for this year's festival arrived on a single hard drive in a compact box. The cost of the hard drive, owned by Emerging Pictures, is about $10,000. 
 ''Projecting is as simple as working a P.C.,'' explained Barry Rebo, another partner in the company and a technology expert. ''They double-click on a film, and it starts.'' After the festival the hard drives will be sent back to the company to be reprogrammed with other films and then sent out again. ''This is a prototype,'' Mr. Rebo said. ''Clearly we want to grow this as big as we can.'' 
 The documentaries at the Full Frame Festival, which is co-sponsored by TheNew York Times, include movies like ''Farmingville,'' about immigrant workers on Long Island; ''Home of the Brave,'' about a civil rights worker who was murdered in the 1960's; and ''Dirty Work,'' about the unsung lives of a septic tank cleaner, a bull-semen collector and an embalmer.
 In the past independent filmmakers seeking broader audiences have taken their one or two prints on the road, driving from one regional art-house theater to another. With digital replication, which costs a tiny fraction of the amount necessary for striking a print, the travel is no longer necessary. 
 Directors of regional art-house theaters say they are eager for sophisticated content, and this is an economic model that makes it possible to get such films more often. 
 ''My whole idea is that eventually this is going to be very important for low-budget independent films we show here regularly,'' said Dan Ladely, director of the Mary Riepma Ross Media Center in Lincoln, Neb., one of the festival's regional participants. ''It will enable filmmakers who do documentary films, for example, to distribute films without spending money on 35-millimeter prints.''
 Emerging Pictures will share profits from the box office receipts with the theater owners. 
 Distributors of art-house films in Hollywood say they like the Emerging Pictures concept. ''I think it's a noble idea,'' said Ruth Vitale, co-president of Paramount Classics. ''I go to Cannes and Venice and see amazing small films, and we rack our brains -- how can we take these on and make money? At the end of the day we don't, because we have to make a financial decision.'' 
 If the syndication of the Full Frame festival is a success, Mr. Deutchman and his partners say they will branch out to a few dozen cities in the coming year, though that plan will require advertising funds to attract new audiences. 
 ''Our goal is to have as many as 400 outlets, and we would call it a network rather than a theater chain,'' he said. ''We want to show the world it can work, with the hope that by next year it will be all over the United States.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Ira Deutchman, Barry Rebo and Giovanni Cozzi of Emerging Pictures. (Photo by Emerging Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (93%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); DIGITAL CINEMA (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); INTERVIEWS (65%); THEATER (58%) Motion Pictures; Computers and the Internet; Full Frame Documentary Film Festival

ORGANIZATION: Emerging Pictures (Co)

PERSON: Sharon Waxman

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (92%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (90%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (90%); DURHAM, NC, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%) Grand Rapids (Mich); Kalamazoo (Mich); Lincoln (Neb); Charleston (West Virginia); Sarasota (Fla); Durham (Nc)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



4 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: What's That Sound?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
I hadn't been to Mexico since 1996, so it definitely caught my ear when I started to hear two non-Spanish words on this trip that I'd never heard here before: ''China'' and ''India.'' Mexicans are increasingly aware that these two countries are running off with jobs and markets that Mexicans once thought they owned. You have to feel sorry for the Mexicans: they are hearing ''the giant sucking sound'' in stereo these days -- from China in one ear and India in the other. Worse, they seem stuck, unable to forge a coherent strategic response.
 ''We are caught between India and China,'' remarked Jorge Castaneda, the former Mexican foreign minister who just decided to run for president in 2006. ''We have lost about 500,000 manufacturing jobs. It is very difficult for us to compete with the Chinese, except with high-value-added industries. Where we should be competing, in the services area, we are hit by the Indians with their back offices and call centers. . . . Not enough people here speak English.'' And that's not all. While China and India each send tens of thousands of students to be educated abroad every year in science and engineering, particularly in the U.S., Mexico sends just 10,000. 
 Go into any discount store in Mexico and look at low-priced clothing, toys, shoes and electronics, or even some Christian religious objects, and it is hard not to buy Chinese, added Mr. Castaneda, speaking at the Mexican Council on Foreign Relations. But more important, ''the U.S. markets that we had a corner on is where we are losing jobs. . . . We knew it would happen when China [entered the World Trade Organization in 2001], but we did not get prepared.''
 Mexico's problem, in a nutshell, is this: The world is flat -- or at least getting flatter. Thanks to PC's, telecommunication advances and market-opening agreements, capital can seek out factories and knowledge workers anywhere in the world with greater and greater ease. To get itself in shape to sign the Nafta free-trade accord with the U.S. and Canada, Mexico did what I would call the ''wholesale'' reforms -- and they have been incredibly impressive. It made a historic transition to freer markets and democracy, with respect for human rights and fair elections.
 But with China attracting huge amounts of dollars to put its low-wage workers to work on all sorts of industrial exports, and with India now able to export its low-wage brainpower over phone lines and fiber-optic cables, Mexico's advantages in the U.S. market -- its proximity and Nafta -- are being eroded. Mexico can stay ahead only if it does ''retail reforms.''
 These are the micro reforms that will make its economy more flexible and productive. The government has set out five areas for reform: labor markets; the judiciary; the constitution and electoral system; tax collection, which is abysmal; and opening the energy and electricity markets to foreign investors so a gas-rich country like Mexico gets out of the crazy situation of importing natural gas and gasoline from America.
 The old autocratic Mexico could have ordered these reforms from above. That's how China still does it, giving Beijing an advantage now that it will pay for later. But because Mexico is now a democracy, and needs to remain competitive, it can upgrade its institutions only by going through the messy, time-consuming process of consensus building. Alas, President Vicente Fox has not been very good at building consensus.
 ''We did the first stages of structural reform from the top down,'' said Guillermo Ortiz, the governor of Mexico's central bank. ''The next stage is much more difficult. You have to work from the bottom up. You have to create the wider consensus to push the reforms in a democratic context. . . . There is an urgency for Mexico to finish the structural reforms at the micro level.''
 Why? Because while Mexico upgraded its competitiveness, notes the analyst Daniel Rosen in the journal The International Economy, China upgraded worker education, infrastructure, management skills, technology and quality controls even faster.
 Will Rogers said it a long time ago: ''Even if you're on the right track, you'll get run over if you just sit there.'' Mexico has put itself on the right track. But for the moment, it's just sitting there. If it doesn't start moving again, it's going to get run over by China, India, America -- or all of the above. 
 But America had better not be a passive spectator, as it has been in these Bush years, because if Mexico gets hit, we, too, will feel its pain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); POLITICS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); ENGINEERING (70%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (67%); CALL CENTERS (66%); RELIGION (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) International Trade and World Market; North American Free Trade Agreement ; Labor; Politics and Government ; Wages and Salaries; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (98%); CHINA (97%); INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%) Mexico; China; India

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



5 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 6; Testing 1, 2, 3

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Critics Agree: Good Things Come in Small, Powerful Packages

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
IF a computer can have sex appeal, it is probably demonstrated most clearly in high-end gaming laptops. While young men in decades past might have lusted after the latest automotive hardware, the players (almost all young men) who gathered at a gaming party near Buffalo last month have a different passion. It made them enthusiastic road-testers of three roughly comparable laptops -- from Alienware, Dell and VoodooPC -- that a reporter asked them to size up. 
 Each laptop came with a DVD/CD burner, 1 gigabyte of RAM, a 60-gigabyte hard drive and built-in Wi-Fi networking capability. All were in the $3,000 vicinity.
 The Dell and VoodooPC units also had Bluetooth wireless connectivity. The VoodooPC included a built-in videoconferencing camera, and the Alienware had its own remote control. The VoodooPC included the Professional version of Windows XP, while the others used the Home Edition.
 Dell's unit was the fastest, but with its bulky case, it also ran the coolest. The VoodooPC was not quite as fast as the others, but its lustrous finish and elegant design attracted the most attention. The Alienware fit between the other two in both styling and speed. (The makers of Alienware and VoodooPC, in particular, pointed out that the laptops they provided were not at the top of their product lines; the best are even faster and can top $4,000.) 
 At nine pounds or more but blazing fast, all the laptops won praise from the young testers, who put them through their paces with some of the latest and most technically demanding PC games. SETH SCHIESEL

Alienware Area 51m
PROCESSOR 3.2-gigahertz Pentium 4
VIDEO ATI Mobility Radeon 9600 PRO
SCREEN 15.4 inches
WEIGHT 9 pounds
PRICE $2,730

''The quality is definitely better than my computer. My computer would be going at, like, a frame a second right now.''
DANIEL P. MARTIN, 15
High school sophomore, Alden, N.Y.

''The performance is great. It is certainly comparable with most desktop machines.''
DAVE M. ROSONOWSKI, 19
College freshman, Amherst, N.Y.

Dell Inspiron XPS
PROCESSOR 3.4-gigahertz Pentium 4
VIDEO ATI Mobility Radeon 9700
SCREEN 15.4 inches
WEIGHT 10 pounds
PRICE $3,199

''It's better than my computer, and for a laptop that's pretty good. Now that Dell is making a laptop made for gaming, and with their warranty, I'm impressed.''
DON W. CARTER, 17
High school senior, Corfu, N.Y.

''I think it's awesome. It works just as good as a normal computer, but it's easier to take to parties.''
TORI K. BYERLY, 16
High school junior, Indian Falls, N.Y.

VoodooPC Envy m:750
PROCESSOR 3.0-gigahertz Pentium 4
VIDEO ATI Mobility Radeon 9600 PRO Turbo
SCREEN 17 inches
WEIGHT 9 pounds
PRICE $3,187

''I like the wide screen, and it's sleek. And I like the full-sized keyboard.''
CHRIS T. KASPRZAK, 24
Network administrator, Buffalo

''I'll trade you my Mustang for it. I'm serious.''
MATT A. HENDERSHOT, 21
Unemployed, Batavia, N.Y.


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (91%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (85%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (77%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (74%); COMPUTER GAMES (73%); CD & DVD DRIVES (70%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (70%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



6 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: A Major Step Forward For Lincoln Center Plan

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
The first step in an ambitious redevelopment of Lincoln Center received approval yesterday from most of the organizations that comprise that New York showcase for the performing arts. The vote enables Lincoln Center to begin fund-raising and construction on a $325 million overhaul of the campus's main artery along West 65th Street.
 The vote, by the center's redevelopment board, was the first time the groups had achieved unanimity on the project since it was announced in 1999.
 ''This is a great step forward,'' said Bruce Crawford, chairman of Lincoln Center. ''This has been a long and arduous process. I can say without any hesitation that the vote was unanimous and it was enthusiastic.'' 
 Lincoln Center said it would reveal the specifics of the design and a timetable for construction in several weeks. But in general the intent of plan for 65th Street, designed by the husband-and-wife team of Elizabeth Diller and Ricardo Scofidio, would be to make the campus more inviting. Currently the stone-and-glass colossus, nearly a half-century old, is set back in an aloof way from surrounding streets. 
 The project was first announced as a $1.5 billion, 10-year upgrade of the entire campus. Its improvements ranged from fixing the cracking travertine on the plaza to expanding backstage space for the New York City Opera to renovating Avery Fisher Hall. The plan has since been reconceived in light of fiscal realities. Although Mr. Crawford last year put the total estimate of the redevelopment at $500 million to $800 million, he said yesterday that the cost would be determined on a project-by-project basis.
 The first phase of this grand effort is to improve West 65th Street. Now it feels less like a thoroughfare and more like an oversize back alley. A hulking overhang crosses the street, throwing much of it into perpetual shadow, and the walls of Lincoln Center on either side loom large and forbidding. Early redesigns featured bright marquees, a transparent bridge and a wide staircase leading up into Lincoln Center on the south side of the street. Representatives of Lincoln Center declined yesterday to confirm whether these elements remain in the plan. 
 The next phase of the redevelopment will be to renovate the main plaza, where the fountain presides, and Damrosch Park, the grassy area between the Metropolitan Opera House and the New York State Theater. These public spaces are also to be designed by the firm Diller and Scofidio. Mr. Crawford said that ''building a consensus'' with the 11 participating constituent groups -- among them the New York Philharmonic, the New York City Ballet and the New York City Opera -- had been difficult. ''These are diverse and separate organizations,'' he said.
 Reynold Levy, the president of Lincoln Center, said that the vote indicates that conflicts are behind them. ''It's a vote of confidence on the part of the constituents in the future of Lincoln Center,'' he said. ''This is a major fund-raising project.'' 
 The overhaul has been complicated and occasionally interrupted by the economic downturn, the attack on the World Trade Center and internal complications like the New York Philharmonic's aborted merger with Carnegie Hall last summer. 
 Despite the unanimity of the board's vote, Mr. Crawford later acknowledged that language had been added to the resolution yesterday, at the Metropolitan Opera's behest, directing that the board vote again before construction begins. ''The Met wanted to be sure that the language was unambiguous,'' Mr. Crawford said.
 The Met had previously opposed aspects of the redevelopment, most recently objecting to a proposal to eliminate access to Lincoln Center's parking garage from 65th Street. The Met's general manager, Joseph Volpe, said he believed that rerouting traffic would inconvenience operagoers. When asked his reaction to the vote, Mr. Volpe said Lincoln Center officials asked him not to comment. 
 In a joint interview at Lincoln Center yesterday, Mr. Crawford and Mr. Levy said that access to the garage on 65th Street had been written into the resolution. ''I think in the process we addressed Joe's concerns and alleviated them,'' Mr. Crawford said.
 Those around the table yesterday included groups with entrances on 65th Street, including the Juilliard School, the Lincoln Center Film Society and Lincoln Center Theater, as well as those more indirectly affected. 
 ''Everyone around the table today has a stake,'' Mr. Levy said. ''Everyone on the campus will be affected in one way or another.''
 The vote means that the city can begin its formal review process. Kate D. Levin, the cultural affairs commissioner, attended yesterday's meeting, along with Patricia E. Harris, the deputy mayor for administration who oversees culture. 
 The vote also enables the constituent groups to begin raising large gifts of $3 million or more to pay for the project. Lincoln Center's executives said that they planned to raise at least $40 million by the end of January in an initial fund-raising campaign.
 Lincoln Center Inc., the campus landlord and itself a constituent, has agreed to match 20 percent of the first $25 million raised and 15 percent of everything raised beyond that. Lincoln Center Inc. owns Alice Tully Hall and Avery Fisher Hall. 
 The redevelopment project has moved in fits and starts since its conception. Mr. Volpe withdrew from the project in January 2001 on the ground that the Met had not been adequately consulted about the plans. The opera rejoined four months later, having received assurances of greater involvement in decision making.
 Although Mr. Volpe recently announced his retirement in 2006, he is expected to continue playing an active role in the project. 
 Two chairmen have come and gone during the redevelopment process. Marshall Rose, the real estate developer, resigned in 2001, primarily out of frustration with the Met. Peter M. Lehrer, the construction executive, resigned in June, citing what he viewed as wasteful management and sluggish progress.
 Mr. Crawford said yesterday that he would be the acting chairman and that a new one would eventually be appointed.
 Major issues have yet to be resolved. One potential stumbling block arose recently over the question of who would pay for $3.5 million in structural improvements for the New York State Theater, which is owned by the city and shared by the City Ballet and City Opera. Mr. Levy said that discussions on this matter were continuing. Also uncertain is the extent to which Avery Fisher Hall will be renovated now that the Philharmonic has decided to stay there, and whether City Opera will leave for the World Trade Center site or elsewhere since it wants its own home.


GRAPHIC: Photo: This side of Lincoln Center along West 65th Street, left, would be redesigned to make it less forbidding to visitors. (Photo by Lincoln Center Constituent Development Project)(pg. E6)Map of New York highlighting West 65th Street: Lincoln Center's redevelopment would enliven West 65th Street. (pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BALLET (73%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); OPERA (69%) Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts (NYC)

PERSON: Ricardo Scofidio; Elizabeth Diller; Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



7 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Advances Plan to Cut Oil Production by Million Barrels a Day

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: VIENNA, March 31 

 BODY:
OPEC said on Wednesday that it had decided to press forward with plans to cut its production target by a million barrels a day, in an aggressive display of its strategy to maintain oil prices at their highest levels in more than a decade. 
 Delegates from the 11 members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries cited robust demand for crude oil and ample supply as the main reasons for the decision, which comes at a delicate time in energy markets. Pump prices for gasoline are setting record highs in the United States, and crude oil is more expensive than it has been at nearly any time since the first war with Iraq in 1991. 
 Still, skepticism persists that OPEC's decision, ratifying a plan first announced last month in Algiers, would result in actual production cuts, since the cartel has announced cuts at other recent meetings that have never been put in place. Investors reacted to Wednesday's decision by bidding oil prices down, not up: light sweet crude oil for May delivery fell 49 cents to $35.76 a barrel in New York trading. Ultimately, OPEC's decision to proceed with actual cuts will depend on demand in large markets like China, Japan and the United States. 
 Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, the pivotal member of OPEC, has signaled his nation's desire for production cuts despite growing political attention to energy prices in the United States. 
 The White House criticized OPEC's plan to cut production. ''The president is disappointed in today's decision,'' Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, told reporters on Wednesday. ''Producers should not take steps that harm American consumers and our economy.'' Mr. McClellan said that the White House was ''actively engaged'' in discussions with OPEC, and called on Congress to pass the president's energy plan. Kyle McSlarrow, the deputy energy secretary, told reporters in Washington that the administration was also ''going to take a look at whether or not there are any short-term things that can be done'' about the impact of high gasoline prices on consumers. He did not elaborate on what Energy Department officials were contemplating.
 OPEC has become far more active in recent months in trying to keep oil prices high, led by Saudi Arabia, which has been trying to expand its influence over energy markets even as major oil exporters outside OPEC, like Angola, Norway and Russia, are supplying more of the world's oil. Saudi Arabia is believed to be the only major producer that can quickly and significantly increase or decrease production. 
 ''The Saudis are succeeding at their game,'' said Edward L. Morse, executive adviser at Hetco, a New York-based oil trading company. ''Their credibility is high at a time when the oil market is extremely tight.''
 If OPEC production is actually reduced, most of the cuts will have to come at Saudi fields, analysts said. Saudi Arabia accounts for about a third of OPEC's official production of 24.5 million barrels a day; analysts say that most OPEC members are flouting their official production targets and that the group is actually producing closer to 26 million barrels a day. 
 Analysts said they expected Saudi Arabia to make some cuts in its output simply to compensate for some of the overproduction by other members. OPEC delegates also noted that warmer spring temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere would be expected to weaken demand for oil. 
 Roger Diwan, a senior analyst at Washington-based PFC Energy, said he did not think OPEC as a whole would actually cut output by any more than 700,000 to 900,000 barrels a day in the weeks ahead. ''The Saudis will do 50 percent of that amount if they see fit, and we might see a couple of other members also cutting, including Iran and the United Arab Emirates,'' Mr. Diwan said as he followed developments at the OPEC meeting from the corridors of the cartel's headquarters in Vienna. 
 ''But most of OPEC's members won't cut at all, and some might even increase production,'' Mr. Diwan said. ''Don't expect any cuts from Indonesia, Venezuela, Nigeria, Qatar or Libya.'' 
 High prices and robust demand mean that most OPEC members have a strong financial incentive to pump and export all the oil they can. Even so, several nations, including Venezuela and Indonesia, are thought to be producing well below the volume they are allowed under OPEC's quotas. 
 Several delegates to Wednesday's meeting stressed the importance of complying with the quotas, tacitly acknowledging that few OPEC members actually do so. ''There needs to be greater discipline among us,'' said Chakib Khelil, Algeria's oil minister. The Iranian oil minister, Bijan Namdar Zanganeh, said OPEC could continue to deliberate informally about production levels over the next two months; the cartel's next formal meeting is scheduled for June 3 in Beirut.
 All oil-consuming nations are affected by the high prices of crude oil, but the impact of OPEC's decision is likely to be greater in the United States than in Europe, analysts said, because oil prices around the world are set in dollars and the euro has gained strength against the dollar in recent months. 
 Industry analysts gathered in Vienna for the OPEC meeting were on edge after a fire forced a sharp reduction in output at a BP refinery in Texas, threatening to further tighten gasoline supplies. After BP announced that the refinery, which is capable of processing 447,000 barrels of crude oil a day, was back to operating at near-normal levels, unleaded gasoline futures retreated from 18-year highs and closed on Wednesday at $1.1244 a gallon for May delivery, down 3.18 cents from Tuesday's close, in New York trading. 
 Political concerns about the prices of oil and gasoline, however, have persisted in the United States.
 ''George Bush ran for president pledging to pressure OPEC to relieve high prices, but on his watch the problems have gotten worse and the solution has been surrender,'' Senator John Kerry, the Democratic candidate for president, said on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, center, before the OPEC meeting yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CARTELS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); FUTURES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PERSON: Simon Romero; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



8 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2057 words

HEADLINE: Accounting Board Wants Options to Be Reported as an Expense

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Addressing a concern of many investors, the Financial Accounting Standards Board proposed yesterday that companies be required to report as an expense the value of the stock options they give to employees and executives.
 Unless overturned by Congress, the board's proposal will lead many companies to report lower profits than they showed before, when few companies chose to treat the value of options as an expense. Whether that will affect stock prices, as many companies have feared, remains to be seen.
 ''This is an area of great concern to many investors,'' said Robert Herz, the chairman of the accounting board. ''Having looked at it pretty comprehensively, we believe the accounting can and should be improved.'' 
 Many companies, especially in high-technology businesses, say that options are an important tool to attract talent to new ventures and that stifling them will also damp innovation and economic growth. They have mounted a lobbying campaign to persuade Congress to block the proposal. Political pressure led the accounting board to abandon a similar effort 10 years ago.
 After that effort failed, companies issued options at a rapid pace during the stock market boom as a reward to valued employees. When the market collapsed, a period of corporate scandals followed, leading many investors to conclude that more diligent accounting practices were needed. 
 David Zion, an accounting analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, estimated that 2003 earnings of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 would have been 8 percent lower had the companies been forced to treat options as an expense. He noted that that impact was smaller than it would have been in earlier years, in part because profits were higher and in part because companies have begun cutting back on option grants in expectation of the new rule, which would take effect in 2005.
 In the last few years, more than 100 of the 500 companies in the S.&P. index have begun to expense options, which is now allowed voluntarily. A study released yesterday by Towers Perrin, a consulting firm, found share prices of companies that chose to expense options did no better or worse than those of other companies in following months.
 But the impact on some companies' earnings will be great. Pat McConnell, an accounting analyst at Bear Stearns, said the operating earnings of the 100 largest companies traded on the Nasdaq stock market, few of which now expense option costs, would have been 44 percent lower in 2003.
 While the board might change some details after waiting for 90 days for public comments, it is highly unlikely that it will change very much because the proposal has had years of consideration.
 The rule is likely to lead to modifications in the way options are structured. Companies may issue options that pay only if the stock price rises substantially or does better than an index of other stocks. Some companies might decide to issue options that can be cashed in only if a particular division of a company does well.
 Until now, virtually all options have been issued under terms that the recipient would profit if the share price rose over the life of the option, typically 5 to 10 years. Such options were the only ones that could be ignored by companies in calculating compensation expenses. 
 One innovation already announced by I.B.M. would mean its newly issued options given to executives will be valuable only if the company's stock has risen at least 10 percent over the life of the option.
 The proposed American rule is similar to one by the International Accounting Standards Board that is to take effect next year. That rule is expected to be binding in the European Union and Australia, and perhaps in many other countries. There is a good chance that most of the remaining differences between the rules will be eliminated before final rules are issued.
 The rules would charge against earnings the estimated value of the options when they are issued, regardless of how much, or how little, they turn out to be worth. Both rules allow companies leeway in calculating that value, however, and differing valuations by companies may make comparison between companies difficult. But companies would have to disclose assumptions that went into the calculations, making it possible for investors to see that one company had used more conservative assumptions than another.
 Technology companies in Silicon Valley have fought the expensing of options for many years, warning that it would make it more difficult to raise capital and would damage competitiveness. More recently, they have argued that there is no good way to measure the value of options, to which supporters of change have replied that whatever the correct value was, it was greater than the zero number most companies put in their profit-and-loss statements.
 Both the American and international boards will allow companies to choose the options pricing model they used, either the traditional Black-Scholes model or the newer binomial model. The models are similar in that they rely on assumptions about such things as interest rates and stock volatility in computing the values. But the binomial model, sometimes called the lattice model because of the way it is calculated, allows companies to calculate the value under a series of assumptions about the future, with different probabilities assigned to each possibility. 
 Rick White, the chairman of the International Employee Stock Options Coalition, argued yesterday that both methods give values that are too high. 
 But Ms. McConnell, the Bear Stearns analyst, said, ''I believe the rule is a good rule and the methodology results in a fair measure of the employee's compensation.''
 David M. Blitzer, a managing director of Standard & Poor's, said he thought the added flexibility in the new rule would allow many companies to report values that are lower than the ones they now disclose in footnotes to their annual reports.
 ''The basic issue is that when you have employees you should pay them, and you should tell your shareholders how much you pay them,'' said Mr. Blitzer. He said he hoped the rule would be adopted and that it would be embarrassing if European companies that follow international standards wound up with better accounting than American ones.
 The board has been down this road before, in the early 1990's. But as the board prepared to adopt a rule in 1994 the Senate voted 88 to 9 for a resolution disapproving of expensing options, with Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, leading the fight. The board backed down after being privately advised to do so by Arthur Levitt, then the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, in what he later said was the worst mistake of his tenure on the commission.
 In following years, options issuance soared. Calculations by Pearl Meyer & Partners, a consulting firm, showed that 200 large companies issued options equal to 1.2 percent of shares outstanding in 1994. That leaped to 1.6 percent the next year and rose to a peak of 2.7 percent in 2001. It has since slipped back to 2.2 percent.
 On Capitol Hill, Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said he believed that the Senate would not act this year, in part because of reaction to scandals and in part because many senators believe that ''the issue of F.A.S.B. independence is really at the heart of this.''
 But Representative Richard Baker, Republican of Louisiana, said the capital markets subcommittee he leads would hold hearings. ''With today's action I fear F.A.S.B. is beginning to stand for flatten all start-up businesses,'' he said.
 Both Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader, have endorsed a bill they call a compromise. That proposal would require companies to take an expense for the value of options to the top five officers of a company, but not for options given to other employees. Even for the top five, the way the value would be computed would produce very low numbers and, Mr. Herz said, companies could manipulate terms of the option to show those options as worthless, and thus not hurt earnings at all.
 Mr. Herz declined to forecast what action, if any, Congress would take. ''One thing I know I can't control is the Congress, he said. ''I know there are heavy lobbying efforts. They have been going on, and I expect they will continue.''
 A decade ago, there was little support among investors for expensing options. But now many investors have concluded that options are an expense and that they would be better off with information on them in the financial statements. Shareholders of Hewlett-Packard and PeopleSoft voted this year in favor of expensing options, despite strong opposition from the companies' managers, and shareholders of other companies are expected to do the same at other annual meetings this spring.
 Economists -- and now accounting rule makers -- say the options have value on the day they are granted simply because the recipient can share in the stock's gains, as a stockholder would, without having to risk losing money on the downside. Opponents of expensing have argued that there is no cash cost to the company and that expensing would make it harder for small companies to raise capital.
 ''Expensing stock options will increase the time horizon for venture-backed companies' reliance on expensive risk capital because it will take them longer to look profitable'' and thus be able to sell stock to the public, said Mark G. Heesen, the president of the National Venture Capital Association.
 One part of the board's proposal that may arouse some opposition is that the new rule will require the value of options to be taken as an expense over the period they vest -- that is over the period that an employee becomes able to cash them in. Typically, that period extends for three to five years. As a result, even if a company chose to stop issuing options altogether, it would still have to report expenses from options issued in earlier years, as they vest. The amount of the expense, however, would be the value of the option when it was issued, despite the fact that by the time the option vests it may be worth much more or less.
 After the rule takes effect, companies may look for ways to reduce the calculated value of the option while preserving possible gains for option holders if the stock does well.
 By saying that options will have an exercise price 10 percent above the market price when they are issued, I.B.M. has reduced their estimated value. For a given accounting expense, it could therefore issue more options and provide higher profits for options recipients if the share price rises much more than 10 percent while the options are outstanding. It has said, however, that it expects to reduce the number of options granted.
 A number of arguments have been advanced to reduce the estimated value of options -- and thus the potential expense. One is the suggestion that some shares purchased with options will be worth less than other shares because employees may be required to hold some of the shares for a time before selling them. The proposed rule would allow such reductions, the accounting board said.
 While it is not directly relevant to accounting values, that approach will fly in the face of the Internal Revenue Service. In a notice issued last week, the I.R.S. said it had heard some executives were trying to use a similar claim to minimize their taxes after cashing in options. The I.R.S. said that position ''is without merit'' because the law clearly says the value must be determined ''without regard to restrictions that will lapse, such as a requirement to hold shares for a period of time.'' The commission said taxpayers making such claims could face civil penalties or even prosecution for tax evasion.
 Some companies have argued that private companies issuing options should be treated differently, because there is no market value for the stock to aid in valuing the options. The proposed rule states that if a value cannot be estimated, companies can instead opt for delaying recognition of the value. But that accounting would mean that a company would take a hit to earnings after it went public, and another hit as the share price rose. It is unlikely many companies will take that choice.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Impact of Expensing Options''Over all, earnings of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 would have been 8 percent lower in 2003 had all companies treated options they issued as an expense, as they would be required to do in 2005 under a rule proposed yesterday by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Some companies would suffer substantially, while others would not be affected at all, either because they grant few options or because they already report the expense.BIG IMPACTMercury InteractiveReported earnings per share*: $0.45Unrecognized options expense: $1.53Adjusted earnings per share: -$1.08Change: LossApple ComputerReported earnings per share*: 0.19Unrecognized options expense: 0.46Adjusted earnings per share: - 0.27Change: LossNvidiaReported earnings per share*: 0.54Unrecognized options expense: 1.04Adjusted earnings per share: - 0.50Change: LossPeopleSoftReported earnings per share*: 0.25Unrecognized options expense: 0.47Adjusted earnings per share: - 0.22Change: LossYahooReported earnings per share*: 0.37Unrecognized options expense: 0.32Adjusted earnings per share: + 0.05Change: - 86%EMCReported earnings per share*: 0.22Unrecognized options expense: 0.16Adjusted earnings per share: + 0.06Change: -73Adobe SystemsReported earnings per share*: 1.10Unrecognized options expense: 0.77Adjusted earnings per share: + 0.33Change: -70Starwood HotelsReported earnings per share*: 0.51Unrecognized options expense: 0.32Adjusted earnings per share: + 0.19Change: -63Dell ComputerReported earnings per share*: 0.80Unrecognized options expense: 0.29Adjusted earnings per share: + 0.51Change: -36TycoReported earnings per share*: 0.52Unrecognized options expense: 0.16Adjusted earnings per share: + 0.36Change: -31SMALL OR NO IMPACTCoca-ColaReported earnings per share*: $1.77Unrecognized options expense: None+Adjusted earnings per share: +$1.77Change: 0Morgan StanleyReported earnings per share*: 3.45Unrecognized options expense: None+Adjusted earnings per share: + 3.45Change: 0ChevronTexacoReported earnings per share*: 7.14Unrecognized options expense: $0.03Adjusted earnings per share: + 7.11Change: 0American Elec PowerReported earnings per share*: 1.35Unrecognized options expense: 0.02Adjusted earnings per share: + 1.33Change: -1%AlcoaReported earnings per share*: 1.20Unrecognized options expense: 0.02Adjusted earnings per share: + 1.18Change: -2Union PacificReported earnings per share*: 4.07Unrecognized options expense: 0.08Adjusted earnings per share: + 3.99Change: -2Dow ChemicalReported earnings per share*: 1.88Unrecognized options expense: 0.05Adjusted earnings per share: + 1.83Change: -3KrogerReported earnings per share*: 1.56Unrecognized options expense: 0.05Adjusted earnings per share: + 1.51Change: -3Sara LeeReported earnings per share*: 1.50Unrecognized options expense: 0.04Adjusted earnings per share: + 1.46Change: -3AetnaReported earnings per share*: 5.91Unrecognized options expense: 0.27Adjusted earnings per share: + 5.64Change: -5*Earnings are for continuing operations+Company already expenses all optionsOPTION EXPENSES OF COMPANIES IN THE S. & P. 500 -- Figures in billions of dollars2001Recognized: $1Unrecognized: $44Total: $45Earnings from continuing operationsREPORTED: $218ADJUSTED: 174Difference: -20%2002Recognized: 2Unrecognized: 47Total: 49Earnings from continuing operationsREPORTED: 255ADJUSTED: 208Difference: -192003Recognized: 5Unrecognized: 36Total: 41Earnings from continuing operationsREPORTED: 444ADJUSTED: 408Difference: -8(Source by Credit Suisse First Boston)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ACCOUNTING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); LOBBYING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (52%); SCANDALS (51%) Company Reports; Accounting and Accountants; Stock Options and Purchase Plans

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (93%) Financial Accounting Standards Board

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



9 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; MARKET PLACE

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Traders Testing Tokyo's Commitment to the Dollar

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The unexpected resilience of the dollar -- which is up against the euro and down marginally against other major currencies this year -- is a result of an extraordinary market manipulation by Japan, which has spent nearly 15 trillion yen, or $142 billion, to prop up the dollar to help Japan's exporters sell abroad.
 But now that Tokyo appears to have decided to stop playing such extreme currency games, Japan has set the dollar up for a steeper slide against the yen and a renewed fall against the euro and other currencies.
 The dollar dropped 1.2 percent against the yen to a four-year low of 104.35 yesterday as foreign-exchange traders tested whether the Japanese would act to slow the fall. Traders said there was no sign of dollar buying. The dollar also fell against the euro, dropping 0.9 percent as the exchange value of the euro rose to $1.2305. 
 Tokyo's withdrawal to the sidelines would be a major policy shift with important implications for American corporations and investors. Its huge market intervention until now has translated into losses for big banks and hedge funds, analysts said, and undermined the first-quarter performance for overseas investments of Americans. It even intruded into the American presidential campaign, as many industries are lobbying for a weaker dollar to make them more competitive.
 This market manipulation also ran counter to the way Japan, the United States and their allies say they want the currency markets to work.
 The buying of dollars by the Japanese, especially from Feb. 17 to March 5, soaked up so much of the American currency that it also lifted the value of the dollar against other currencies, especially the euro.
 The Japanese reported yesterday that they spent 4.7 trillion yen ($45.2 billion) from Feb. 26 to March 29 on intervention. The nearly 15 trillion yen for the year so far is almost three-quarters of what the government spent last year, Japan's most aggressive year of intervention into the foreign exchange market. While only the intervention totals for the year so far have been released, analysts say that most or all involved the buying of dollars.
 ''The yen intervention was so extreme that it did impact the dollar across the board,'' said Rebecca Patterson, global currency strategist at J.P. Morgan, with other currencies on some days matching about 80 percent of the dollar's rise against the yen.
 From an intraday $1.2928 on Feb. 18, the lowest value for the dollar against the euro in more than five years, the dollar's value jumped as much as 7.3 percent, trading at $1.2047 this past Monday. Even after its decline yesterday, the dollar is still up 2.4 percent this year against the euro; it was down 2.6 percent at its Feb. 18 low.
 Japan's dollar buying also temporarily stopped what analysts said should have been a sharp decline of the dollar against the yen. The dollar rose from 105 against the yen on Feb. 17 to 112 on March 5, then slid back to 105 Tuesday. The dollar's decline of 2.7 percent against the yen this year would have been more like 11 percent had there been no intervention, some currency strategists argue.
 Japan's intervention also helped the dollar against the Australian currency, which rose 34 percent against the American currency last year. This year the dollar is down just 1.5 percent and was up for the year as recently as Monday. The dollar is up 1.1 percent against the Canadian dollar and has risen 0.6 percent this year in the Federal Reserve's broad index of the dollar's value against trading partners of the United States.
 Even though the Japanese allowed the dollar to fall and the yen to rise after March 5, the dollar held most of its gains against other currencies, until yesterday. One reason, currency strategists said, is that the head of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, indicated recently that the bank might cut European interest rates if the economy continues to underperform.
 Analysts do not expect a rate cut when the European Central Bank meets today, but are now predicting one at some point in the next several months.
 The Japanese currency manipulation has hurt small investors who bought stocks and bonds abroad because of forecasts that the dollar would continue to decline this year. For example, the dollar's rise against the euro has turned a 1.9 percent gain in the French stock market into a 0.5 percent decline for dollar-denominated portfolios.
 The Japanese stock market is up 9.7 percent this year. The gain for Americans' dollar-denominated accounts is 13 percent -- but probably would have exceeded 20 percent if Japanese monetary authorities had not supported the dollar, analysts said. 
 Analysts are predicting losses at hedge funds in the first quarter from wrong-way bets on the yen. At banks, some analysts have said that trading revenues were hurt by a decline in transactions by customers who believed that they were burned by the Japanese manipulation.
 ''Banks could be affected by this,'' said Steven Wharton, an analyst at Loomis Sayles & Company. ''But this loss would be dwarfed by other trading-related revenues in most instances.''.
 The repeated intervention has also flouted an understanding by the United States, Japan and their allies on how the foreign-exchange market should function. Finance ministers have said that exchange rates should reflect economic fundamentals and that excess volatility is undesirable. But the Japanese intervention resisted those fundamentals and created a lot of volatility, currency strategists said.
 Analysts agree that the original intent of Japan's intervention, which totaled 20.1 trillion yen ($193 billion at current exchange rates) last year, was to slow the rise of the yen against the dollar. But they are uncertain as to why the Japanese went to such extremes in February and March.
 One possibility is that a weaker yen would help Japanese company finances as the fiscal year ended yesterday. Another is that the government wanted to squeeze speculators who were betting on a strengthening yen. Inflicting painful losses on them might scare them off and make it easier for monetary authorities to slow the yen's rise the next time.
 As to why Japan might have stopped embroiling itself in the foreign-exchange market, analysts speculate that the suddenly robust Japanese economy is a likely explanation. ''The most recent data indicates not only that the economic recovery is sustainable but also that it is accelerating,'' said Kenneth Landon, senior currency strategist at Deutsche Bank. A weaker dollar against the yen also rewards the foreign investors who have poured money into the Japanese stock market.
 The Bush administration also seems to have indicated, Mr. Landon said, that ''it was getting impatient with the aggressive intervention'' because it was preventing a natural weakening of the dollar that would help both American exporters and American companies that are competing at home against cheap imports. But Mr. Landon said he did not think that Japan had abandoned market intervention so much as scaled it back. If it stopped altogether, he said, the dollar could conceivably plunge to 95 yen within days from the current 104-plus. 
 One positive note is that the change of signals at the European Central Bank and the interim support of the dollar by the Japanese may have reduced how far the dollar could fall against the euro this year. Ms. Patterson of J.P. Morgan has revised her year-end euro forecast to $1.35 from $1.37.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The dollar's drop to a four-year low against the yen was on display yesterday in downtown Tokyo. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C5)Graph: ''Manipulating Exchange Rates''Japan has spent nearly 15 trillion yen, or $142 billion, so far this year to prop up the dollar and protect the value of its exports. Japan's intervention has also had an effect on other currencies, including the euro.Graph tracks the dollar's value in yen and in euros since Jan. 2004.Graph tracks the total quarterly intervention by Japan, valued in yen, to buy or sell foreign currency mostly dollars from 1999 through March 29, 2004.(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Ministry of Finance) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LOBBYING (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Japan; Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



10 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Economic Scene

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: A study looks at what the public knows, or doesn't know, about economics and why.

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
IF you are reading this column, it is clear that you are interested in economics and economic policy. But what about the rest of the population? How do people learn about the economy and economic policy? How much do they know? How does it affect their views? 
 These are questions that my Princeton colleague Alan S. Blinder and I ask in a study just completed for the Brookings Papers on Economic Activity. Last spring we surveyed a random sample of 1,002 people on their views about economic policy. As part of the survey, we administered a quiz on basic facts, like the size of the federal budget deficit, the level of the minimum wage, the share of income paid in taxes, and the percent of Americans without health insurance. 
 The good news is that three-quarters of people say it is either extremely important or very important to stay informed. 
 The bad news is that there is a great deal of confusion about basic facts relevant to policy. Almost half the public, and a quarter of those over age 55, thought Medicare already provided drug benefits for outpatients before legislation providing such coverage was enacted. More than half could not hazard a guess about the size of the budget deficit. The average person thinks 37 percent of Americans lack health insurance, more than twice the actual percentage. 
 From where do Americans learn about the economy? By far the most common source is television. Those who rely on television the most, however, tend to be among the least informed. 
 The second most common source is local newspapers, which were cited much more frequently than national or big-city papers. 
 Friends and relatives came in third, followed by political leaders, radio and economists. The Internet was next, although a sizable contingent listed it as their most important source. 
 Those who consulted more sources, and consulted them more often, were a bit better informed -- but not much. That's a sobering fact for the media. 
 People who said they voted in the last presidential election were better informed than nonvoters. 
 Liberals, moderates and conservatives all did about equally well on the test of economic facts. But those who said they hadn't thought much about their ideological leanings -- one in three people -- were appreciably less knowledgeable. 
 Politicians pay attention to opinion polls. Policies that poll poorly are rarely pushed. What affects where people stand on the issues? 
 Those who were more knowledgeable about economic policy facts were less likely to support the last Bush tax cut. Among those who scored in the bottom quarter on the factual knowledge quiz, the ratio of favorable to unfavorable opinions was 2.6 to 1; for those in the top quarter it was 1.1 to 1. 
 Another study, by Joel Slemrod of the University of Michigan, found that a majority of people mistakenly believed that middle-income families pay a higher percentage of their income in federal taxes than do high-income families. The truth is that the top 1 percent of households paid 24 percent of their income in federal income taxes in 2000, while the middle 20 percent paid 5 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office. This misperception, Mr. Slemrod concluded, leads many people to favor a flat tax over the current system; they mistakenly think the rich will pay more with a flat tax. 
 On other issues, however, knowledge and perceptions were only weakly related to positions on policy issues, if at all. For example, the perceived size of the government deficit or general economic knowledge was unrelated to whether people considered the deficit a major problem. 
 Another surprising result is that political scientists and economists have been unable to find much of a link between individuals' self-interest and their position on a range of public opinion questions, or on their voting behavior. 
 For example, higher-income people, who stood to benefit much more from the second Bush tax cut than lower-income people, expressed only slightly stronger support for it. And those old enough to receive Medicare were slightly less in favor of expanding it to cover drug insurance than everyone else was. 
 What does predict public opinion on the economy? In a word, ideology. 
 On most issues, liberals and conservatives take predictably different positions. And when it comes to the government budget deficit, the views of liberals and conservatives reversed after conservatives enacted record deficits, suggesting that ideological positions are situational. 
 Ideology may matter because it is costly for individuals to learn about specific issues; taking the party line is easy. Arthur Lupia, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, said, ''For voters, 'investing' their attention in ideological or party clues, rather than economic policy details, can be quite rational.'' 
 Even so, the view of public opinion that emerges from this research is contrary to the assumption of nonideological, self-interested people that economists typically apply to the political arena. Instead, voters appear to put more weight on what they think is in the country's best interest, using whatever clues they can. 
 Yet pocketbook issues do affect voting. Many studies have found that economic growth is a good predictor of presidential elections. Incumbents do worse in a weakening economy. Ronald Reagan asked voters whether they were better off than they were four years ago, to great effect. 
 Self-interest may not affect opinion polls because people lack the interest, information and background to disentangle which policies are to their advantage, or they may feel better by giving the answer that they think would be best for the commonweal. But they can judge whether they are better off than they were before. In the current presidential election, the state of the economy is likely to have much more impact on voters than the specifics of the policies either side proposes. 
 Still, there are potential costs to systematic misperception and disregard of self-interest. For instance, a large majority can end up on the wrong side of class warfare, as Warren E. Buffett recently warned.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Couch Potato Economics''According to a new study, people who rely on television as their prime source for economic information performed less well on a quiz of economic policy facts than those who rely on other sources.MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: MagazinesSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 2.2%ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 52.7MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: EconomistsSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 1.1ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 50.3MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: NewspapersSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 18.6ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 46.8MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: Business leadersSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 1.2ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 46.1MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: InternetSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 10.1ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 45.9MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: BooksSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 0.5ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 43.7MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: RadioSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 8.9ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 42.3MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: TelevisionSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 46.6ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 41.1MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: Political leadersSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 2.3ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 40.9MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: Friends, relativesSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 6.6ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 39.9MAIN SOURCE OF ECONOMIC KNOWLEDGE: Civic, religious leadersSHARE RELYING ON SOURCE: 1.2ECONOMICS QUIZ AVG. SCORE*: 35.0*Score is out of a total of 100 points.(Source by Alan S. Blinder and Alan B. Krueger, ''What Does the Public Know About Economic Policy, and How Does It Know It?'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); MEDICARE (74%); FAMILY (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); POLITICS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); CONSERVATISM (63%); MINIMUM WAGE (54%) Economics; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) University of Michigan

PERSON: Alan B Krueger; Joel Slemrod

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



11 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Dow and Nasdaq Record First Quarterly Losses in a Year

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, leaving the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index with their first quarterly losses in a year, after disappointing reports on factory orders and business conditions in the Midwest raised fears about the staying power of the economic rebound.
 Yesterday was the end of this year's first quarter. It was the Dow's first losing quarter since the first quarter of 2003, and the Nasdaq's first down quarter since the third quarter of 2002. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index recorded a slight gain. 
 A survey of business conditions in the Chicago area showed that the overall business activity expanded for the 11th consecutive month in March, but at a much slower pace than expected. The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said its index of Midwest business conditions fell to 57.6 in March from 63.6 in February.
 Separately, the Commerce Department said new orders at American factories rose slightly in February, though demand fell far short of Wall Street expectations.
 The Dow ended down 24 points, or 0.23 percent, at 10,357.70. The S.&P. 500 fell 0.79 of a point, or 0.07 percent, to 1,126.21. The Nasdaq gave up 6.41 points, or 0.32 percent, to 1,994.22.
 For the quarter, the blue-chip Dow fell 0.92 percent and the technology-laden Nasdaq fell 0.46 percent, but the S.&P. 500 rose 1.29 percent.
 In a worrisome sign for the job picture, the employment component of the Chicago purchasing managers' survey fell sharply to 49.2 in March from 54.8 in February. A number below 50 indicates contraction.
 The report raised worries that a highly anticipated monthly payrolls report due Friday could come in weaker than Wall Street expectations. 
 Volume was active, with roughly 1.48 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, above the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. On the Nasdaq, about 1.86 billion shares traded, also higher than last year's daily average of 1.8 billion.
 Stock in Interstate Bakeries slumped after the company suspended its dividend to save cash. Shares of Interstate, which makes Twinkies cupcakes and Wonder bread, gave up $1.30, or 10.3 percent, to $11.37 after the company announced the move, which comes amid an industrywide slowdown in bread sales as more people try low-carbohydrate diets.
 The consumer electronics chains Best Buy and Circuit City Stores both rallied, after they each posted strong quarterly earnings, driven by sales of flat-panel TV's and other products. Shares of Best Buy, which dominates the $100 billion consumer electronics market, gained $3.32, or 6.8 percent, to $51.72.
 Shares of Circuit City, whose lower expenses helped its earnings gain despite a lackluster sales rise, added 60 cents, or 5.6 percent, to $11.30. It also announced a $284 million purchase of a Canadian rival, InterTan.
 On the Nasdaq, QLogic was the biggest percentage loser, a day after it lowered its quarterly outlook because of a decline in expected orders for computer networking equipment. Shares of QLogic, which makes computer storage equipment, fell $9.69, or 22.7 percent, to $33. 
 Treasury prices rose yesterday as fund managers bought back debt previously sold to square books before the end of the month and the quarter.
 ''The higher prices all seem to be quarter-end related,'' said Brian Robinson, senior bonds strategist with 4Cast in New York. ''It's a phenomenon that occurs every single month, but March happens to be the end of the quarter, so that means something extra in terms of benchmarking.''
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 16/32, to 10111/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 3.84 percent, from 3.89 percent, on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Leading Underwriters''Managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States for the first quarter of 2004. For this ranking, the lead manager is given credit for the entire issue.Manager: CitigroupDollar volume (billions): $113.60Number of issues: 363Share of market: 12.8%Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 1Manager: Merrill LynchDollar volume (billions): 102.53Number of issues: 453Share of market: 11.5Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 2Manager: Morgan StanleyDollar volume (billions): 90.89Number of issues: 273Share of market: 10.2Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 4Manager: Lehman BrothersDollar volume (billions): 86.23Number of issues: 279Share of market: 9.7Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 6Manager: J.P. Morgan ChaseDollar volume (billions): 78.52Number of issues: 324Share of market: 8.8Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 5Manager: Credit Suisse First BostonDollar volume (billions): 60.13Number of issues: 248Share of market: 6.8Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 7Manager: UBSDollar volume (billions): 60.07Number of issues: 207Share of market: 6.8Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 8Manager: Deutsche BankDollar volume (billions): 47.80Number of issues: 183Share of market: 5.4Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 11Manager: Goldman SachsDollar volume (billions): 47.73Number of issues: 161Share of market: 5.4Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 3Manager: Banc of America SecuritiesDollar volume (billions): 41.59Number of issues: 196Share of market: 4.7Rank in 1st qtr. 2003: 9(Source by Thomson Financial)Chart: ''Leaders and Laggards in the Quarter''Securities with the largest gains and declines in percentage terms in the first quarter of 2004, as calculated by The Associated Press. Preferred shares are excluded as are securities that began the quarter at less than $5 a share or which had a market capitalization of less than $10 million. No more than one class of a security is listed.New York Stock ExchangeLEADERSElanClosing priceDec. 31: $ 6.89March 31: $20.62ChangeDollars: +$13.73Percent: +199.3%Compx InternationalClosing priceDec. 31: 6.40March 31: 13.37ChangeDollars: + 6.97Percent: +108.9BluegreenClosing priceDec. 31: 6.24March 31: 12.96ChangeDollars: + 6.72Percent: +107.7Veritas DGCClosing priceDec. 31: 10.48March 31: 20.70ChangeDollars: + 10.22Percent: + 97.5Titanium MetalsClosing priceDec. 31: 52.51March 31: 99.70ChangeDollars: + 47.19Percent: + 89.9LAGGARDSOneidaClosing priceDec. 31: $ 5.89March 31: $ 2.45ChangeDollars: - $3.44Percent: - 58.4MastecClosing priceDec. 31: 14.81March 31: 9.47ChangeDollars: - 5.34Percent: - 36.1Specialty LaboratoriesClosing priceDec. 31: 16.79March 31: 10.80ChangeDollars: - 5.99Percent: - 35.7China Yuchai InternationalClosing priceDec. 31: 30.60March 31: 20.01ChangeDollars: - 10.59Percent: - 34.6ITT Educational ServicesClosing priceDec. 31: 46.97March 31: 31.20ChangeDollars: - 15.77Percent: - 33.6NasdaqLEADERSNovatel WirelessClosing priceDec. 31: $ 5.99March 31: $21.50ChangeDollars: +$15.51Percent: +258.9%Escalon MedicalClosing priceDec. 31: 6.70March 31: 22.61ChangeDollars: + 15.91Percent: +237.5Lifeway FoodsClosing priceDec. 31: 6.76March 31: 21.30ChangeDollars: + 14.55Percent: +215.3Taser InternationalClosing priceDec. 31: 27.46March 31: 78.35ChangeDollars: + 50.89Percent: +185.4Magal Security SystemsClosing priceDec. 31: 7.85March 31: 22.20ChangeDollars: + 14.35Percent: +182.8LAGGARDSaaiPharmaClosing priceDec. 31: $25.14March 31: $ 6.63ChangeDollars: - $18.51Percent: - 73.6%Superconductor Technol.Closing priceDec. 31: 5.56March 31: 2.30ChangeDollars: - 3.26Percent: - 58.6StarcraftClosing priceDec. 31: 32.46March 31: 13.99ChangeDollars: - 18.47Percent: - 56.9Dobson CommunicationsClosing priceDec. 31: 6.57March 31: 2.89ChangeDollars: - 3.68Percent: - 56.0Sigmatron InternationalClosing priceDec. 31: 26.13March 31: 12.37ChangeDollars: - 13.76Percent: - 52.7American Stock ExchangeLEADERSIsolagenClosing priceDec. 31: $ 5.60March 31: $11.79ChangeDollars: +$6.19Percent: +110.5%Medical Technology SystemsClosing priceDec. 31: 6.30March 31: 12.45ChangeDollars: + 6.15Percent: + 97.6Brooke CorpClosing priceDec. 31: 10.10March 31: 19.49ChangeDollars: + 9.39Percent: + 93.0Perini CorpClosing priceDec. 31: 9.15March 31: 15.75ChangeDollars: + 6.60Percent: + 72.1Nordic Amer. Tanker ShippingClosing priceDec. 31: 15.05March 31: 25.58ChangeDollars: +10.53Percent: + 70.0LAGGARDSI-SectorClosing priceDec. 31: $15.68March 31: $ 8.65ChangeDollars: - $7.03Percent: - 44.8%Intelli CheckClosing priceDec. 31: 7.91March 31: 4.65ChangeDollars: - 3.26Percent: - 41.2Bennett EnvironmentalClosing priceDec. 31: 20.66March 31: 12.70ChangeDollars: - 7.96Percent: - 38.5Q Comm InternationalClosing priceDec. 31: 6.39March 31: 3.95ChangeDollars: - 2.44Percent: - 38.2MedifastClosing priceDec. 31: 14.10March 31: 8.99ChangeDollars: - 5.11Percent: - 36.2(Source by The Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (86%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (84%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (68%); BAKED GOODS (65%); BAKERIES (60%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (62%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



12 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1; Heading Home to Adultery and Angst

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: A New Generation of Authors Discovers the Suburbs

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
Like the suburbs themselves, the suburban novel seemed for a while to go out of fashion: too old, too square, too white and middle class. Except for a few die-hards like Rick Moody and A. M. Homes, the younger novelists were apparently moving out and taking up residence in new fictional territory.
 They were writing historical novels, like Kathryn Harrison and Brooks Hansen; they were traveling to Eastern Europe and reinventing magic realism, like Jonathan Safran Foer; they were working on brainy, Foster Wallace-style epics; like Alan Furst and Jonathan Lethem, they were working the fertile ground where so-called literary writing intersects with genre fiction; or, like Jonathan Franzen in ''The Corrections,'' they were writing novels in which the suburbs had been abandoned by the young and were inhabited now by the old and the gaga.
 No one was left back in the old tree-shaded neighborhoods, a reader could be forgiven for thinking, except for the two Johns: Updike and the ghost of Cheever, gloomily surveying the well-kept lawns and the empty swimming pools and wondering where all the action had gone. 
 But the suburban novel appears to be back, at least as imagined by a younger generation. These recent novels, especially ''Little Children'' by Tom Perrotta and ''Aloft'' by Chang-rae Lee (a former suburban neighbor and a friend), suggest that there are important stories still to be found in the land of the split-level and the McMansion, the land where many pollsters, as it happens, believe the next election will be won or lost. 
 These novels and others like them may even tell us a few things the pollsters cannot. They're also a reminder that the American vision of suburbia has been created by novels and stories at least as much as it has been described by them. The suburbs aren't just a place anymore; they're a state of mind.
 Suburban fiction is essentially a postwar phenomenon, partly because before the war there weren't that many suburbs to speak of (we still lived in town or on the farm) and partly because it took the postwar economy to create the necessary wealth, upward mobility and corresponding rootlessness to nurture the proper suburban hero. A lot of classic American novels -- from James, say, through Howells and Wharton and even up to O'Hara -- are really novels of manners; they're about arranging marriages, making and losing fortunes, finding your place in the social pecking order. 
 The suburban hero -- living in Cheever's Shady Hill, Updike's Tarbox or Richard Yates's Revolutionary Estates -- has none of these problems. He's already married (in literary suburbia there are virtually no single people), he's got enough money (or at least no more worries than the next guy) and still he's unfulfilled. He yearns for something else, something more, if only he knew what it was.
 Many of the great suburban characters -- like Mr. Updike's Rabbit Angstrom; Cheever's Neddy Merrill, hero of ''The Swimmer''; or Frank Bascombe, the narrator of Richard Ford's ''Independence Day'' -- are frustrated poets of a sort, who see their world, every leaf and shingle and stone-walled cul-de-sac, with almost visionary clarity and sensitivity. That the suburbs shine so brightly in our collective imagination, and look so lovely, is largely because we have seen them through the eyes of people like this, who experience their surroundings (where they never feel entirely at home) with such ardor and sensitivity that they sometimes seem suspiciously like authors themselves (a problem that Mr. Ford neatly gets around by making Frank Bascombe an ex-sportswriter).
 ''Oh What a Paradise It Seems'' is the title of Cheever's last book, which like much of his writing evokes a town that is more a fabled, mythical place than a real one. But to a certain extent all the famous fictional suburbs -- Mr. Updike's Tarbox and Penn Park; Mr. Ford's Haddam, N.J.; Philip Roth's Old Rimrock -- are earthly paradises, places where the American dream has seemingly come to expensive, landscaped fruition. 
 Inevitably they're also fallen paradises, plagued (as America itself is plagued, some critics would say) by spiritual emptiness and a sense of collective purposelessness. Alcohol flows through these novels like a seductive potion: not just in Cheever, with his lonely, hungover husbands, but in David Gates's bleak novels ''Jernigan'' and ''Preston Falls,'' in which everyone is either an alcoholic or a druggie or both. And where would the suburban novel be without adultery? The sharp tang of sex is everywhere, an anodyne and occasionally the way to transcendence.
 In some sense the suburban novel never quite went away. In recent years there have been sunnier versions: books like Frederick Reiken's ''Lost Legends of New Jersey'' and James Kaplan's ''Two Guys From Verona'' (also set in the Garden State), in which the burbs are less a spiritual condition than the backdrop for more or less ordinary stories of middle-class families. 
 But in the popular imagination it's the darker view that prevails, the one evoked by Rick Moody's ''Ice Storm,'' say, or by Mr. Roth's ''American Pastoral,'' which was anything but. Out of impatience and frustration, it seemed, A. M. Homes's 1999 novel, ''Music for Torching,'' literally set fire to the whole enterprise, with a Westchester couple who out of boredom and self-loathing burned down their own house and by implication the literary tradition that sustained it. 
 Mr. Perrotta's ''Little Children'' also subverts the conventions but in ways that leave a few bricks standing. The book's smartest and most sympathetic character is a woman (in itself a break with the suburban-novel tradition), and the big issue here in the fictional town of Bellington -- politicians take note -- is child care. ''Little Children'' makes you realize with a start how absent children are from a lot of classic suburban writing, or else how they're reduced to walk-on roles as the adults get on with the more important business of drinking and sleeping with other people's spouses. 
 What propels this novel is not sexual passion or spiritual malaise but the exigencies of domestic responsibility. Much of the action takes place not at parties or in adulterous bedrooms but in playgrounds and at the town swimming pool; and when an affair does take place, the lovers are pushed into each other's arms less by an upswelling of Updikean sensuality than by boredom and simple propinquity (and because the husband of one is devoting all his romantic energy to a Web site maintained by someone who calls herself Slutty Kay). ''Little Children'' does include the requisite sensitive suburban guy, except in this case he proves to be a dope; he can't even get it together to turn up at an assignation on time because he's too busy admiring the skateboard antics of younger dudes.
 At one point many of the characters in ''Little Children'' attend a meeting of the Bellington Ladies' Belletristic Society, a book group that is discussing ''Madame Bovary,'' possibly the first and in many ways still the greatest of the suburban novels, the one that established the potent combination of romantic yearning and a provincial setting. The older women in the group, all widows, are fascinated by the book; most of the younger ones don't get it at all, and the reader senses that they have little use for fiction of any sort. This is the author's slyest and most disarming critique: a suburb where even the suburban novel seems alien and impractical.
 To judge from Mr. Lee's novel ''Aloft,'' people in the suburbs don't have time to read because they're too busy. The Long Island of this book is a place of almost frantic motion. As bulldozers chew up the remaining farmland, people are moving in by droves, all kinds of people, not just the WASPy Republicans of old-fashioned Suburbanland; they're moving up (or in some cases sliding back down), they're landscaping and remodeling and building on additions.
 ''Aloft'' occasionally even picks up on one of the themes of ''Good Faith,'' Jane Smiley's 2003 novel about real-estate speculation in the 1980's: that sex isn't the only thing on the suburbanite's mind. There's also real-estate lust: the hope of selling high, buying low and, like the hapless Markham family in ''Independence Day,'' who house-hunt their way through 45 different listings, of finding at last the place that more than any other feels like home.
 That's what we all want, and it's why the suburban novel remains so insightful. It performs the still useful fictional trick of showing suburbanites to themselves, and to those of us who spend at least part of the time in the suburbs of the mind. Almost every American visits there at one time or another: that verdant place that seems to promise so much and so often fails to deliver on the promise. Wherever we go, these novels suggest, we bring our discontent and a yearning for someplace better.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Perotta, author of the genre-bending ''Little Children.'' (Photo by Debi Milligan)(pg. E10)
 A suburban view, about 1980, from the book ''Suburbia'': the land of split-levels may look sterile, but it's been fertile terrain for writers. (Photo by Bill Owens/From ''Suburbia'' [Fotofolio, 1999])(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (93%); LITERATURE (91%); WRITERS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (75%); HISTORY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MARRIAGE (70%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Suburbs

PERSON: Tom Perrotta; Chang-Rae Lee; John Updike; John (1912-82) Cheever; Charles Mcgrath

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



13 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Judge Says Racketeering Suit Can Proceed Against Block and Household International

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
A class-action racketeering lawsuit that accuses H&R Block, the big tax preparation company, and Household International, a consumer lender, of conspiring to trick poor customers into taking out high-interest loans will proceed toward trial, a federal judge in Chicago ruled on Tuesday.
 Both sides claimed victory after Judge Elaine E. Bucklo of Federal District Court, in a 20-page decision, dismissed most of the counts against the two companies but upheld two racketeering complaints.
 The companies face the potential of triple damages that could run to billions of dollars if arguments by the plaintiffs' lawyers prevail in the case, which has been winding its way through the courts since the late 1990's. 
 Judge Bucklo also left four state claims in the case but said that they could not be tried as a class action. Both sides said it was unclear how the state claims would be resolved.
 The judge rejected Block's request to dismiss the two racketeering complaints because Block's counsel, in an unusual tactic, participated in drafting a previous complaint that accused the company of violating the racketeering statute.
 That happened when Block, which had for years successfully fended off lawsuits accusing it of gouging customers, suffered adverse court rulings in Maryland, Pennsylvania and Texas and sought a way to settle all outstanding claims. 
 Block worked out an arrangement with three small Chicago law firms to sue it as part of a global settlement. Block's lawyers even drafted the complaint it wanted filed against itself, including a racketeering charge.
 A federal judge initially approved that deal, but the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit found the settlement improper. The case was transferred to Judge Bucklo, who rejected the arrangement between Block and the law firms.
 The case before Judge Bucklo began with a loan that the sole named plaintiff, Lynne A. Carnegie of New York, obtained in February 1995 when she had a Block office prepare her taxes. Beneficial Finance, now Household International, made the loan in anticipation of her income-tax refund. 
 Millions of such loans are made each year for flat fees that equate to annual interest charges of several hundred percent and in some cases reach 2,000 percent.
 Peter S. Linden, a partner at Kirby, McInerney & Squire in New York, the law firm that represents Ms. Carnegie, said Judge Bucklo's ruling ''is a significant victory for the plaintiffs because the court has sustained the plaintiffs' ability to sustain the racketeering claims against Block and Household, and those carry the potential for treble damages, so their exposure is very significant.''
 A Block spokesman, Bob Schneider, said the company was pleased with the judge's ruling because it dismissed most of the counts regarding the refund anticipation loans.
 ''We think that what remains is very defensible,'' Mr. Schneider said. ''They have to prove fraud and intent to defraud, and that is very difficult to prove because all these R.A.L.'s have extensive documentation.''
 Mark R. Friedlander, a spokesman for Household, declined to comment on the ruling. But he noted that in recent years the company had changed its lending policies to what ''are our industry's leading practices and we clearly state that a refund loan is a loan product.'' He said the company also conducted inspections to make sure that Block and other tax preparation companies comply with its policies.
 Of the 12.5 million refund anticipation loans last year, Household made 7.7 million, Mr. Friedlander said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); JUDGES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (79%); DAMAGES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); ETHICS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); INCOME TAX (50%) Taxation; Refunds; Racketeering and Racketeers; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Advertising and Marketing; Taxation; Credit; Ethics; Misleading and Deceptive Advertising

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Block, H & R, Inc; Household International Inc 

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Elaine E (Judge) Bucklo; Lynne A Carnegie; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



14 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: NEWS ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Act of Hatred, Hints of Doubt

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, March 31 

 BODY:
Hours after the deaths of the four American civilians who were dragged from their vehicle and mutilated in Falluja on Wednesday, an American general went before reporters in Baghdad with the air of measured assurance that has characterized every daily briefing on the military situation across Iraq.
 ''Despite an uptick in local engagements, the overall area of operations remains relatively stable with negligible impact on the coalition's ability to continue progress in governance, economic development, and restoration of essential services,'' said Brig. Gen. Mark Kimmitt, 51, the former paratrooper who is chief spokesman for the United States military command.
 Nearly a year into the insurgency, the command, in lock step with the civilian administration headed by L. Paul Bremer III, remains relentlessly positive. 
 But along with the publicly expressed confidence, there are hints that American generals are not as sure as they were only weeks ago that they have turned a corner in the conflict. Nor do the scenes from Falluja on Wednesday -- Iraqis mutilating American bodies, and crowds cheering at the sight -- appear to fit the theory put forward by the American military that Islamic militants, including foreigners, rather than Iraqi supporters of Saddam Hussein, are increasingly behind terrorist attacks. Falluja, 30 miles west of Baghdad, has been the volatile center of support for the toppled dictator, and a bellwether of the wider war.
 Falluja, relatively quiet in recent months, has become a major battleground again as the First Marine Expeditionary Force, replacing the Army's 82nd Airborne Division, has sent large troop formations into the city to challenge insurgents who had taken control of entire neighborhoods. This reversed the airborne division's policy of leaving security in the city mainly to Iraqi police and civil defense units, and led last week to several pitched battles in which at least three marines and 30 Iraqis died.
 The visceral hatred for Americans that poured forth on Wednesday suggests that the city remains as much a caldron as it was last April 9, when American troops captured Baghdad. Two weeks after Mr. Hussein's ouster, American troops who had taken over a school as a barracks opened fire on angry crowds, killing 17 Iraqis, after shots were fired at the school. The incident set off attacks that by midsummer had engulfed the entire Sunni Triangle, a strategic area of hundreds of square miles in central Iraq, north, south and west of Baghdad.
 By February, American generals had begun to say that the worst of the ''Saddamist'' insurgency was over, its power blunted by a wide American offensive that followed the former dictator's capture on Dec. 13. The American strikes across the Sunni Triangle, they said, had relied heavily on information about the cell structure of the insurgent leadership that was found among the documents seized with Mr. Hussein. Penetrating that, the American officers said, had allowed them to disrupt attacks severely, putting the rebels at a disadvantage.
 At the same time, senior officers around Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez, the American commander, said that Hussein loyalists were increasingly being replaced as America's principal enemy in Iraq by Islamic terrorists with at least loose links to Al Qaeda.
 On Feb. 8, United States officials produced a document that became known as the ''Zarqawi letter.'' In this, they said, a man they believed to be responsible for several major attacks, including the August bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, which killed 22 people, had urged Qaeda leaders to support further attacks aimed at provoking a civil war in Iraq -- and halting American progress toward the establishment of a Western-style democratic state.
 Questions remain about the letter, including whether the writer really was Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian-born Islamic militant. But it provided the Americans with a ready-made template for their new interpretation of the war. They said the letter, found on a computer disk carried by a Qaeda-linked courier, was proof that the conflict in Iraq had been transformed from a battle to restore Mr. Hussein into a regional theater for the worldwide war against terrorism.
 Mr. Zarqawi's photograph was posted in operations centers at American bases across Iraq, and soldiers in their Humvees began cursing Mr. Zarqawi more than Mr. Hussein. Virtually every briefing for reporters tied developments in the war to the growing role of the Islamic militants and the receding threat from what military jargon calls F.R.E.'s, or former regime elements.
 In urging this view, American generals and senior officials around Mr. Bremer, chief of the occupation authority, have struggled to explain elements of the situation that have seemed not quite to fit their theory. While blaming Islamic militants for many of the worst suicide bombings, including the attacks in Baghdad and Karbala in early March that killed at least 190 people, they have not been able to provide strong evidence that the Islamists, and not supporters of Mr. Hussein, were responsible.
 One senior official who blamed Mr. Zarqawi for the Baghdad and Karbala bombings told reporters that the F.B.I. had matched ball bearings used in the suicide belts with those used in two January bombings in the northern city of Erbil that killed more than 100 people. But he conceded that ball bearings are sufficiently alike that they lack a conclusive forensic signature -- and that a matchup of the shrapnel would prove only that the two attacks might have had a common organizer, not necessarily that the perpetrator was Mr. Zarqawi, and not even that the attackers were Islamic militants, rather than followers of Mr. Hussein.
 Another problem for those who contend that Islamic terrorists with Qaeda links now pose the main threat to American forces is that only a small number of the 12,000 detainees currently held at American-run camps across Iraq are foreigners from the swath of Muslim countries across Asia, the Middle East and Africa who have been the principal activists of Al Qaeda and its associated groups elsewhere. American officials have said that fewer than 150 of the detainees are foreigners, the rest Iraqis. The United States command has occasionally announced the arrest of a suspected Islamic terrorist, but has then fallen silent.
 On Tuesday, before the Falluja attacks, General Kimmitt, the American military spokesman, appeared to back off at least somewhat from the emphasis on Islamic militants as the principal enemy. At a briefing, he offered an overview of the war in which he suggested that what has occurred, in effect, is a merging of the Saddamist insurgents and the Islamic terrorists into a common terrorist threat, and that, either way, ''we just call them targets.''
 Several Iraqis interviewed on Wednesday, including middle-class professionals, merchants and former members of Mr. Hussein's army, suggested that that the United States might be facing a war in which the common bonds of Iraqi nationalism and Arab sensibility have transcended other differences, fostering a war of national resistance that could pose still greater challenges to the Americans in the months, and perhaps years, ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SHOOTINGS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); RELIGION (66%); POLICE FORCES (55%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) John F Burns; L Paul III Bremer; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



15 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; GRIDLOCK IN ALBANY: OVERVIEW

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: And That's 20: Albany Budget Is Late Again

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Thursday, April 1 

 BODY:
New York's elected officials went home Wednesday night without passing a state budget, making this the 20th year in a row the budget will be late and extending a pattern of state government gridlock that is unrivaled in the nation.
 As the midnight budget deadline came and went, Gov. George E. Pataki and the state's two top legislative leaders, Joseph L. Bruno and Sheldon Silver, met for an hour and emerged pointing fingers of blame at each another.
 Later, in a sign of embarrassment at the record of 20 missed budget deadlines, a committee of lawmakers from both parties and both houses met and announced an agreement on a set of measures to address the late budget cycle, including moving the start of the state fiscal year back to May 1 from April 1.
 As for this year's spending plan, it could be weeks or months until leaders agree on it. 
 As one assemblyman, Robert G. Prentiss, a Republican from Colonie, near Albany, sang on the floor of the Assembly, ''When the red, red robin goes bob, bob, bobbin' along, it's a sure, sure sign of spring that a late state budget will still be far, far behind.'' 
 New York's history of passing late budgets is unmatched. Its record highlights the paralysis in a state capital bedeviled by institutional and partisan rivalries, where the participants suffer few if any political consequences for their actions, according to scholars, financial experts and government watchdogs. 
 ''The system is dysfunctional,'' said Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, a Democrat who is trying with little visible success to encourage a voter revolt against Albany incumbents of both parties. ''It just shows a total disrespect for the law.''
 Only California has anything near New York's record of late budgets, but even California's are not as late. Wayne R. Roberts, the president of the National Association of State Budget Officers, said that as far as he could remember, Texas, where he works as a senior fiscal adviser to Gov. Rick Perry, has never missed a budget deadline. Officials in Texas, he said, ''would look upon it as a personal shortcoming.''
 Mr. Pataki, who has never seen a budget passed on time in his 10 years as governor, acknowledged that the system was broken. ''I think it's wrong and it's a disservice to the people of New York, regardless of the reasons, and I think that we have to work to try to change the process,'' he said.
 The system calls for the governor to propose a budget in January and for the Legislature to negotiate and pass a spending plan by April 1. This year was supposed to break the cycle of lateness. Officials seemed to be paying more than the usual lip service to trying to pass one on time, and the $99.8 billion budget that Governor Pataki proposed on Jan. 20 contained many items intended to please and appease lawmakers who had revolted last year and passed a budget over his vetoes. The Legislature, deadline in mind, even expedited its schedule of budget hearings. 
 Old habits die hard, though, and in the weeks leading up to the midnight deadline, the triumvirate that controls Albany -- Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bruno, both Republicans, and Mr. Silver, a Democrat -- squabbled over everything from antiterrorism legislation to school funds. On Wednesday, the leaders -- Mr. Silver and Mr. Pataki, in particular -- were blaming each another for missing the deadline.
 Missed budgets once had flesh-and-blood consequences for New Yorkers. School districts could not hire teachers. College programs were canceled. Nonprofit organizations had to cut back. A 1999 comptroller's report found that the state's late budgets had led to lower credit ratings, forcing the state to pay higher rates of interest on its loans.
 These days, state officials pass emergency spending bills to pay state workers and keep government from shutting down. Mr. Pataki sent such a bill to the Legislature this week. Those who rely on state money to pay their bills save, develop lines of credit, grumble and plan accordingly. Blair Horner of the New York Public Interest Research Group calls the public and political adaptation ''political Darwinism.'' 
 One of the remaining effects of late budgets -- perhaps the biggest effect -- is that little other work is done in Albany until a budget is passed. 
 ''For the whole system to work, first you have to have the budget and then you can get to other things, and if you can't get the budget done, then you can't handle other issues of importance,'' said Warren M. Anderson, a Republican from Binghamton who was the majority leader in the Senate from 1973 to 1988.
 Former Gov. Hugh L. Carey, a Democrat, said: ''You know and I know that when this budget thing is on, the highly touted and the vaunted and the gifted legislators have nothing to do. They can't really go out and start legislating if you haven't got the budget.''
 By Monday, halfway through this year's legislative session, the governor had signed 11 bills. By the end of most legislative sessions, going back to the 1920's, more than 1,000 laws are signed, though that number has steadily decreased in recent years as budgets have been passed later in the year, Mr. Horner said.
 The proposal announced Wednesday to change the budget process is an acknowledgment that the system itself contributes to New York State's chronic inability to pass a spending plan on time. 
 The proposal calls for moving the start of the state fiscal year to May 1 from April 1; having a contingency budget take effect automatically once a deadline is missed; and creating a two-member independent budget office to prepare nonbinding revenue estimates. The earliest that those changes could take effect would be 2006, after a voter referendum in November 2005. 
 New York is the only state in the nation with an April 1 deadline, which is before most state residents pay their taxes and a full picture of state revenues can emerge. The vast majority of states start their fiscal year on July 1.
 The decision to move the date to April 1 from July 1 was made in 1943 by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey.
 The process has also shifted in other ways. In 1927, Gov. Alfred E. Smith pushed through changes giving the governor the bulk of the power over the budget. That system persisted through the time of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, but toward the end of his administration, in the early 1970's, the Legislature emerged as a bigger power, hiring staff workers, collecting data and becoming a counterweight to the governor. 
 Mr. Pataki took office in 1995 vowing to pass budgets on time, and even toyed with the notion of shutting government down by refusing to send up emergency bills. Budgets have been later than ever during his tenure, though. 
 Increasingly, the governor and the Legislature have used the budget as leverage to get pet projects passed. In 1996, the governor held up the budget until the Legislature made a deal on his proposal to change workers' compensation laws. Another year, Mr. Silver did the same thing to get rent-regulation laws renewed.
 Gerald Benjamin, the dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the State University of New York in New Paltz, said the problems in budgeting caused New Yorkers to ''check out'' of the political process.
 ''My view is that it is delegitimatizing, in a great range of areas, the way government works,'' he said. ''It enforces cynicism and skepticism about government's meaning and value and importance as a place where good things happen.''
 Over the years, personal clashes between the leaders have played into the impasses over the budget; many say the clashes are more acrimonious now. 
 When Mr. Carey was governor, he used to invite the legislative leaders to the governor's mansion for collegial meetings and snacks. Mr. Carey said he recalled the Assembly speaker at the time, Stanley Fink, telling him: ''Governor, this thing has to come to an end. Stop giving us those damn 1968 sandwiches. We give up, what do you want?''
 Mr. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, said he would like the negotiations to be treated like round-the-clock contract talks, with no one leaving the room until a deal was struck. ''Just like with a labor negotiation,'' he said.
 Mr. Silver, the Assembly speaker, said the public should understand that it is better to have a good, late budget than an early, bad budget. ''The stakes are important,'' Mr. Silver said. ''The timeliness is important but the education of their children is more important, plain and simple.''
 The Legislature was planning to leave town for a 12-day vacation after business on Thursday, the first day of the new, budgetless fiscal year.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Joseph L. Bruno, left, the Senate majority leader, and far right, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, conferring with Assembly members Paul D. Tonko, Helene E. Weinstein, facing camera, and Deborah J. Glick. (Photogaphs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart: ''20 Years of Late Budgets''New York State last passed a budget by its April 1 deadline in 1984
this year's budget is the 20th late budget in a row. Here is a look at the previous 19.YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1985 (April 5)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, DASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Stanley Fink, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Warren M. Anderson, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 34.7YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1986 (April 5)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, D (Election Year)ASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Stanley Fink, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Warren M. Anderson, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 37.4YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1987 (April 11)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, DASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Mel Miller, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Warren M. Anderson, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 39.9YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1988 (April 20)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, DASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Mel Miller, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Warren M. Anderson, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 43.5YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1989 (April 19)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, DASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Mel Miller, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Ralph J. Marino, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 46.4YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1990 (May 19)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, D (Election Year)ASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Mel Miller, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Ralph J. Marino, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 48.9YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1991 (June 4)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, DASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Mel Miller, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Ralph J. Marino, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 52.3YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1992 (April 2)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, DASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Saul Weprin, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Ralph J. Marino, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 54.8YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1993 (April 5)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, DASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Saul Weprin, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Ralph J. Marino, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 57.9YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1994 (June 8)GOVERNOR: Mario M. Cuomo, D (Election Year)ASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Ralph J. Marino, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 61.9YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1995 (June 7)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, RASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 63.2YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1996 (July 13)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, RASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 63.0YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1997 (Aug. 4)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, RASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 66.2YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1998 (April 14)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, R (Election Year)ASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 70.7YEAR (DATE PASSED): 1999 (Aug. 4)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, RASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 73.3YEAR (DATE PASSED): 2000 (May 5)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, RASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 79.8YEAR (DATE PASSED): 2001 (Aug. 3)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, RASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 85.0YEAR (DATE PASSED): 2002 (May 16)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, R (Election Year)ASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, D (Election Year)SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, R (Election Year)SIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 91.0YEAR (DATE PASSED): 2003 (May 15)GOVERNOR: George E. Pataki, RASSEMBLY SPEAKER: Sheldon Silver, DSENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Joseph L. Bruno, RSIZE OF BUDGET (BILLIONS) -- ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION: 96.4(Diagram by James Bronzan/The New York Times)(Sources by New York State Division of the Budget
The New York Red Book
Associated Press
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); POLITICS (72%) Politics and Government; Governors (US); Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (78%); PAUL TONKO (59%) Al Baker; George E (Gov) Pataki; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



16 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Former Bush Aide Will Lead Columbia Business School

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
R. Glenn Hubbard, the former chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers and a professor at the Columbia Business School, is expected to be named dean of the school today, university officials said.
 Mr. Hubbard, 45, will succeed Meyer Feldberg, who has been dean for 15 years, during which time the schools endowment increased nearly fifteenfold, to about $230 million. 
 The president of Columbia University, Lee C. Bollinger, chose Mr. Hubbard from about seven people recommended by a search committee that considered hundreds of candidates, said a committee member, Brad Evans, who is also a member of the school's board of overseers.
 In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Hubbard, who resigned as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers last year to return to Columbia, said he would focus initially on studies of entrepreneurship, refining the school's new ethics program, and improving its physical facilities.
 ''To me, entrepreneurship means something different,'' not just how to start a business, Mr. Hubbard said, adding, ''I think of it as identifying and valuing opportunity.''
 For example, Mr. Hubbard said, studying macroeconomics should include studying which countries' policies are more conducive to rapid growth and supporting greater numbers of business entrepreneurs. He said he hoped to integrate that kind of analysis into the core courses. Mr. Bollinger said he expected Mr. Hubbard to try to integrate more business school programs with other parts of the university.
 Mr. Hubbard, who lives in Manhattan with his wife and two sons, received a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard in 1983 and later taught there, at Northwestern and the University of Chicago. He is a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and director of the tax policy program at the American Enterprise Institute. He also held a Treasury Department post under President George H.W. Bush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CORE CURRICULUM (72%); ETHICS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



17 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Report Shows Slowing Pace Of Production In Midwest

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Manufacturing in the Chicago area expanded at a slower pace in March, and orders placed with factories increased less than expected in February, government and private reports released yesterday showed.
 The economy is moving ''from explosive growth to good growth,'' said Richard DeKaser, chief economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. ''Companies are basically keeping pace with demand and building some inventories.'' 
 The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said its main business index dropped to 57.6 last month from 63.6 in February. The decline in the Chicago index was the biggest in three years, as hiring plans and production both weakened. The survey's employment index fell to 49.2 from 54.8. A score below 50 means more companies say they are not hiring than say they are.
 Analysts, who follow the Chicago report for clues about the strength of manufacturing, had forecast that the index would fall to 61, based on the median of 58 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The six-point drop in the Chicago index was the biggest since March 2001. The production index declined for a second consecutive month to 59.1 from 73, while the new-orders index dropped to 60.4 from 67.5.
 The overall Chicago index has exceeded 50, indicating growth, since May. ''This number isn't a total disaster,'' said William Quan, director of research and chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA in Hoboken, N.J. ''It still says that manufacturing activity is expanding. It's just expanding at a slower pace than the February numbers had shown.'' 
 The Commerce Department said factory orders in February rose 0.3 percent after a revised 0.9 percent decrease in January. Economists had predicted a 1.5 percent increase in factory orders, according to the median of 64 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The government initially reported a 0.5 percent decline in January.
 Nationally, factory orders rose to $343 billion in February, although excluding transportation equipment, orders fell 1.2 percent after increasing 0.9 percent in January. Orders for durable goods, which account for more than half of the report and are manufactured products expected to last at least three years, rose 2.5 percent, the most since October.
 Orders for nondurable goods, which include industrial chemicals, drugs, papers and textiles, fell 2 percent after a 1.2 percent rise the month before. It was the first decline in six months and suggests that growth is slowing from the rates of late 2003.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Factory Orders''Graph tracks the manufacturers total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted from Sept. 2002 - Feb. 2004.Feb.: +0.3%Jan.: -0.9Dec.: +1.8(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (75%); CHEMICALS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); TEXTILES (50%) United States Economy; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Factories and Industrial Plants; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); United States Economy

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (72%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (72%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%) National Assn of Purchasing Management; Commerce Department

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



18 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: VETO THREATENED ON HIGHWAY BILL

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31 

 BODY:
Taking a cue from Ronald Reagan, President Bush is threatening to cast his first veto on a popular highway bill filled with pet projects of Congress members eager before the election to win highway money for constituents stuck in traffic back home.
 Mr. Bush's insistence that the House and Senate hold down road spending is turning the highway legislation into a test of whether he and Congressional Republicans are serious about their promises to restrain the deficit. 
 But lawmakers are determined to press for 3,000 projects to benefit the voters back home, from the usual bridge, highway and road-widening plans to things like $3.5 million for horse trails in Virginia; $1.5 million for the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich.; $1 million for a transportation network for the Army Infantry Museum in Columbus, Ga.; and $5 million for a parking garage in downtown Bozeman, Mont. 
 There is also $1.7 million for improvements to Guy Lombardo Avenue in Freeport, N.Y., honoring the bandleader known as Mr. New Year's Eve.
When Mr. Reagan was president, embroiled in the Iran-contra affair, he took on Congress over highway spending in early 1987, declaring that the bill ''represents a failure to exercise the discipline that is required to constrain federal spending, especially pork barrel spending.'' But his veto was easily overridden, proving a Washington rule: never stand between a member of Congress and asphalt.
 This time, White House officials insist that Mr. Bush, who has yet to veto any bill, is serious about scuttling any highway measure with a price of more than $256 billion. The current House proposal is $284 billion, the White House estimates. Some lawmakers had initially pushed for a bill that would have increased that figure by almost $100 billion.
 ''Thirty billion, when you are cutting the deficit in half in five years, is real money,'' said Trent Duffy, a White House spokesman.
 But the president's approach is causing trouble on Capitol Hill, where rank-and-file Republicans staged a revolt Wednesday over the amount of money in the bill and the way it is spread among the states.
 Instead of taking up the measure, lawmakers gathered in heated meetings around the Capitol trying to resolve their differences on for what many of them is the most important legislation of the year.
 ''We really protested,'' said Representative E. Clay Shaw, Republican of Florida, who said his state would lose more than $800 million the way the measure was now written. Saying that Republican lawmakers in his state were united against it, Mr. Shaw added, ''We can kill the bill.''
 Critics of the bill said it was embarrassing that Congress could not be satisfied with the $256 billion acceptable to the president over six years, considering that it was still a double-digit increase from the last highway measure.
 They noted that for all the haggling over cost, there were the more than 3,000 specific hometown projects totaling nearly $10 billion in the measure. It is a far cry from when Mr. Reagan vetoed the 1987 measure; he complained about 152 home-district projects in that bill.
 ''We seem to have lost all shame as far as spending goes,'' said Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona. ''The president ought to be itching to veto this thing.''
 Highway bills are traditionally a favorite vehicle for winning money for pet projects -- and this bill is no exception. Lawmakers and those who follow the measure say the money is distributed under a rough pecking order. 
 ''I can't absolutely quantify it, but what I see here is if you are on the committee you get a lot of money, if you are in leadership you get a lot of money and if your seat is at risk, you get a lot of money,'' said Keith Ashdown, a spokesman for Taxpayers for Common Sense.
 Mr. Ashdown called the ''earmarking'' of special projects in the measure ''the worst we have ever seen.''
 But Representative Sherwood L. Boehlert, a Republican from upstate New York, makes no apologies for the $50 million worth of projects for his district that he managed to get into the current version of the bill.
 ''When it comes to something as important as economic development, I'm going to be at the front of the parade,'' said Mr. Boehlert, who used his influence as a senior Republican member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to secure money for a variety of local road and bridge projects. ''Members of Congress have not just a right, but an obligation, to work for positive change in their districts.''
 Representative Don Young, an Alaska Republican who is chairman of the highway panel, had originally hoped to present the House with a $375 billion highway measure, with some of the spending paid for with higher gasoline taxes. But that idea went nowhere with the White House. And Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, trying to avoid a veto showdown between Mr. Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress, pressed the bill's authors to cut the cost to about $275 billion. The White House estimates the measure actually costs $9 billion more.
 But the lowering of the price raised some difficult choices. Lawmakers from large states like California, Florida and Texas, who were hoping to get a much better return on the gasoline-tax dollars collected in their states, said they were shortchanged in the process.
 When their objections were combined with those from lawmakers who claimed that the measure spent too little and those who said it spent too much, the Republican leadership was left scrambling for ways to salvage the bill without raising the price. 
 Late Wednesday, Stuart Roy, a spokesman for the House majority leader, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, said the leadership was planning to bring the bill to the floor on Thursday and give disgruntled lawmakers a chance to make changes through amendments. Democrats have mainly been supportive of a higher spending figure.
 The Senate has already passed a $318 billion measure that also drew a presidential veto threat. Lawmakers were hoping that the final price would fall somewhere between the House and Senate figures, though that outcome would seem to precipitate a veto.
 Mr. Flake, the Arizona Republican and spending critic, urged the president to stick to his guns, saying he would either have succeeded in stopping Congress from overspending or would have rid himself of responsibility for the highway measure.
 ''The president wins either way,'' Mr. Flake said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''AT ISSUE: Highway Bill Under the Microscope''The bill includes $11.1 billion for items identified as ''high priority,'' but Taxpayers for Common Sense, a watchdog group, has identified dozens of them as questionable. Several are described below.AMOUNT: $18.8 millionSTATE: IndianaREPRESENTATIVE: Julia Carson, DemocratPROJECT DESCRIPTION: Road improvements for the Indianapolis Convention Center area.AMOUNT: $11.5 millionSTATE: TexasREPRESENTATIVE: Tom DeLay, RepublicanPROJECT DESCRIPTION: Part of Houston's 177-mile grand parkway loop, the fourth outer freeway loop.AMOUNT: $10.0 millionSTATE: South CarolinaREPRESENTATIVE: Jim DeMint, RepublicanPROJECT DESCRIPTION: A new interchange on I-85, built at the request of BMW for access to a plant.AMOUNT: $3.2 millionSTATE: New YorkREPRESENTATIVE: Jerrold Nadler, DemocratPROJECT DESCRIPTION: Pedestrian walkway and bikeway improvements at Coney Island.AMOUNT: $3.0 millionSTATE: AlaskaREPRESENTATIVE: Don Young, RepublicanPROJECT DESCRIPTION: A bridge joining Gravina Island, where there is an airport, to Ketchikan
 ferry service already present.AMOUNT: $1.8 millionSTATE: CaliforniaREPRESENTATIVE: Ellen O. Tauscher, DemocratPROJECT DESCRIPTION: Upgrade and extend the main road to Waterworld USA.(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGHWAYS & STREETS (94%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); ARMIES (55%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%) Roads and Traffic; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Vetoes (US); Election Issues; Elections; Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ELLEN O TAUSCHER (58%); JIM DEMINT (58%); JERROLD NADLER (58%) Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush; Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (56%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



19 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20; Political Memo

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Bad Timing as Kerry Slips Out of Picture

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31 

 BODY:
At the very moment that President Bush has begun his general election campaign, Senator John Kerry has largely slipped from sight. And Mr. Bush has made the most of Mr. Kerry's absence.
 Mr. Kerry's low profile occurs at what would seem to be a particularly opportune time for the senator. Mr. Bush has been struggling with questions about his record on terrorism, and Mr. Kerry had been riding on a wave of excitement after his capture of the Democratic nomination.
 Yet Mr. Kerry was off the campaign trail yet again on Wednesday, this time for shoulder surgery in Boston, an operation expected to sideline him through Sunday. The surgery followed his weeklong disappearance to the slopes of Sun Valley. 
 Some Democrats said that should Mr. Kerry lose in November, he might well remember this month as the time when he seriously undermined his hopes of defeating Mr. Bush. A few invoked one of Mr. Kerry's least-liked comparisons, noting how another Massachusetts Democrat who ran for president, Michael S. Dukakis, stuck close to home in August 1988, in what turned out to be a foolish strategic move in his campaign against Mr. Bush's father.
 ''The Bush people have seized the vacuum,'' said Carter Eskew, a senior adviser to Al Gore in the 2000 presidential campaign.
 Referring to the Kerry campaign, Mr. Eskew said, ''It's a fair criticism to say they've been a little slow to do the same.'' Mr. Eskew said the Gore campaign drifted through the spring before finally settling on a theme to use against George Bush.
 ''For some people, they have a little deja vu, and they're a little worried that's what's happening again,'' he said. ''There is some familiarity here that hopefully can be avoided, which is that in 2000 we did not have a good spring, and we weren't ready for Bush. We weren't tooled up on our side on our positive and our comparative message. We paid a price for that.'' 
 Mr. Kerry's aides said they were not worried, arguing that now is opportune to raise money and devise a strategy, as they struggled with the inevitable growing pains of changing from a primary campaign to a general election campaign. They argued that voters were more likely to focus on the hearings into Mr. Bush's handling of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and testimony of his former counterterrorism chief, Richard A. Clarke, than on an election in November.
 Mr. Kerry's campaign manager, Mary Beth Cahill, said on Wednesday said that her operation was far from idle. She said Mr. Kerry would report this week that he had raised more than $40 million in the first quarter of the year -- a figure that would shatter the $14.8 million record set by Howard Dean, who raised that much in three months -- more than any other Democratic presidential candidate. Mr. Kerry's aides said the senator was about to embark on an aggressive schedule of speeches and a national wave of television advertisements challenging Mr. Bush on the economy, job creation and health care. 
 ''We learned in the primary that we are going to run a race on our own terms and on our own schedule and carry out the plan that we put together,'' Ms. Cahill said. ''You're watching it executed in front of you. The Bush people have been laying back a year and half and amassing money to launch a campaign. O.K., but the country still thinks we're on the wrong track.''
 Still, Democrats said they were concerned by polls in recent days showing that voter perceptions of Mr. Kerry had soured somewhat under the press of Mr. Bush's attacks on him and what even Mr. Kerry's advisers acknowledge have been a series of missteps by the candidate this past month. 
 A USA Today/CNN/Gallup Poll this week found the number of voters who view Mr. Kerry unfavorably had increased to 36 percent from 26 percent over the past five weeks, while the number of votes who called him ''too liberal'' jumped to 41 percent from 29 percent. A New York Times/CBS News Poll this month found that about 6 out of 10 registered voters believed that Mr. Kerry said what he wanted people to hear, rather than what he believed, suggesting some success by Mr. Bush in portraying Mr. Kerry as a flip-floppers.
 Mr. Kerry himself has showed signs of concern about the image that he is a slacker on the trail, fitting in a campaign appearance in Boston on Wednesday morning before heading to the hospital. 
 Ms. Cahill's remarks underline what has emerged as a stark strategic difference between the Bush and Kerry campaigns.
 Mr. Bush, after studying his father's experience in 1988 and the success with which Bill Clinton undermined Bob Dole by attacking him in the spring of 1996, has set out to define Mr. Kerry now, in the hope that perceptions created today will be difficult to change in the fall.
 As Mr. Kerry has stayed on the slopes and the sidelines, the president has pressed forward with a meticulously planned and lavishly financed campaign to undercut him with a barrage of speeches and television advertisements intended to portray him as a liberal, unprincipled, big-spending Democrat.
 By contrast, even Mr. Kerry's supporters say he has yet to offer a concise case against Mr. Bush or one for his own presidency. 
 ''Here's what concerns me in the long term: I can tell you what George Bush's definition of John Kerry is: He is a flip-flopping liberal who wants to raise your taxes,'' said a Democratic strategist who did not want to be quoted by name. ''But I'm not sure I can tell you what John Kerry's definition of George Bush is.'
 By contrast, in a sign that the White House has figured out what to say about Mr. Kerry, the senator was greeted on Tuesday in California by Bush supporters who held up black plastic flip-flops and clapped them together as Mr. Kerry tried to speak.
 Aides to Mr. Bush said their efforts had been successful.
 ''The equilibrium point of the race right now is roughly event,'' a senior Bush adviser, Matthew Dowd, said. ''I thought Senator Kerry would carry his strong showing from the primaries longer. But that has dissipated quickly. His negatives have gone up fairly quickly.''
 There are abundant signs that Mr. Kerry's campaign remains a work in formation. Mr. Kerry has flown across the country the past few days accompanied by Bob Shrum, a senior adviser and prominent speech writer, constantly updating and tweaking Mr. Kerry's stump speech. 
 After two weeks in which Mr. Kerry arguably hurt himself with ill-chosen remarks, his campaign has tried to keep him from reporters. In one seven-day stretch, he met with national reporters once, in a session that lasted nine minutes.
 Mr. Kerry's aides said they thought that any advantage that Mr. Bush might be gaining with his attacks would be fleeting because the senator was about to embark in a noticeable step-up of his campaign.
 ''Their negative ads have gotten some traction, but not any lasting traction that is going to impact us in the long run'' Mr. Kerry's communications director, Stephanie Cutter, said. ''For us, this campaign has just started. ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry greeting reporters yesterday as he and his wife, Teresa, were entering Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Election Issues; Finances; Primaries; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (58%) Adam Nagourney; Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



20 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Led by U.S., Nations Pledge Billions to Revive Afghanistan

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: BERLIN, March 31 

 BODY:
Nations from around the world have pledged $4.4 billion in aid and low-cost loans to help stabilize and rebuild Afghanistan next year, with the United States accounting for about half of the contributions so far, American officials said Wednesday.
 At an international donors conference here, 65 delegations representing more than 50 nations assembled a financial package that Afghan and Bush administration officials said would total $8.2 billion over the next three years. Administration officials were elated with the outcome, which they said would help allow the Kabul government to pay salaries to its workers, prepare for national elections in September and continue to rebuild the country's infrastructure.
 Japan and Germany, which were co-sponsors of the conference, pledged about $400 million and $390 million respectively in donations to be parceled out over time. The Bush administration, which led an invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 that ousted the fundamentalist Taliban government, has said it will spend a total of $2.2 billion in 2004 and $1.2 billion in fiscal 2005. 
 A detailed accounting was not yet available Wednesday, as donors worked late into the night. The final figures were elusive because some donors opted for multiyear commitments, and the Afghan fiscal year is different from those of most Western donors.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell praised the democratic government of Hamid Karzai for making remarkable strides in reviving the country.
 ''In a few short years, with the help of the international community, Afghanistan has gone from being a failed state, ruled by extremists and terrorists, to a free country with a growing economy and an emerging democracy,'' Mr. Powell said.
 Mr. Karzai hailed the support and said it would eventually result in a self-sustaining nation dedicated to fighting terrorism and drugs.
 Noting that his country is ''rebuilding itself from the ashes of over two decades of war,'' Mr. Karzai thanked international donors for rallying behind his government. ''Let us see that in a few years Afghanistan will not be a burden on your shoulders, but a partner that will stand upon its own feet,'' he said.
 However generous the pledges, development experts and Afghanistan specialists said the country would require considerably more money to avoid reverting to a corrupt and tribal state under the influence of drug lords. A study by the World Bank, the Afghan government and the Asian Development Bank, which announced its own pledge Wednesday of $1 billion in loans and grants, said that the country needed as much as $28 billion in outside money over the next seven years.
 Another study, by the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, found that reconstruction efforts so far had been undercut by poor security and irregular disbursals of foreign aid. ''Without a dramatic increase in international focus and resources, Afghanistan could deteriorate into that which the international community has been working to prevent -- a failed state serving as a breeding ground for terrorists and narco-traffickers,'' the report stated.
 Mr. Karzai said militias outside of government control remained a principal concern as the government tried to extend its authority. About a third of the nation, primarily in the conflict zone along the Pakistani border, remains unstable and the province of criminal warlords, American officials say. Drug cultivation and sales also threaten the government and tarnish its international image.
 ''Nobody wants to be called a drug dealer,'' Mr. Karzai said. ''Especially not a nation.''
 Mr. Karzai said he was determined to hold presidential and parliamentary elections in September. The deadline for the vote slipped from June as officials struggled to register up to nine million voters. So far, Mr. Karzai said, only 1.5 million Afghans have been registered.
 The biggest threat to the elections, which would build on the nation's ratification of a Constitution in January, could come from remnant Taliban forces and militia leaders who are increasingly striking out at international aid workers. Over the past two months, 11 aid workers have been slain.
 For organizations with workers in remote and dangerous places, the need for more foreign troops is acute. 
 There are about 14,500 troops in the coalition force in Afghanistan, about 13,000 of them are Americans. In addition, a NATO-led security force in the capital city, Kabul, has another 5,700 troops. The coalition has divided its its responsibilities, with the British focusing on countering narcotics, the Italians working on judicial reform, the Germans training police, the Japanese promoting demilitarization and the Americans reforming the army.
 Mr. Powell insisted that the United States would stand by the Afghan government and not allow it to fail. ''Never again will tyrants and terrorists rule Afghanistan, and never again will Afghanistan become a seedbed of instability,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); TALIBAN (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); POLITICS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FUNDAMENTALISM (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%) Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations; Politics and Government ; Elections; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Government Employees; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (62%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (62%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%) Christopher Marquis; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%) Afghanistan; Japan; Germany; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



21 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: French Leadership Turns the Cabinet Upside Down

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, March 31 

 BODY:
Desperate to recover from a humiliating electoral defeat for the governing party, Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin turned his cabinet upside down on Wednesday, putting France's flamboyant foreign minister in charge of law and order and its law-and-order interior minister in charge of the economy.
 In other moves, the ministers of finance, national education, culture, health and the environment and several deputy ministers were fired.
 The cabinet shake-up came three days after President Jacques Chirac's conservative party was decisively defeated by the left-leaning opposition in regional elections and a day after Mr. Chirac decided not to fire Mr. Raffarin but ordered him to restructure the cabinet. 
 The announcement on Wednesday evening was made from the steps of Elysee Palace by a mid-level official who read the names of the appointments, which take effect immediately. Mr. Chirac is to explain his decision in a live television interview on Thursday evening.
 The most dramatic and immediate impact of the shift will be twofold: a substantive and tonal change in foreign policy and a much more aggressive approach to solving the problems of France's troubled economy.
 It also adds to the strategic depth of Dominique de Villepin, who goes from foreign minister to interior minister, and Nicolas Sarkozy, who moves from interior minister to finance minister, positioning either of them to move into the prime minister's job at a later time.
 The shake-up was criticized by the leftist opposition. Julien Dray, the Socialist Party spokesman, called the change ''worn down before it even gets started,'' adding, ''the same policies will be implemented.''
 The lead editorial on Wednesday afternoon in Le Monde was scathing in criticizing Mr. Chirac's decision not to fire Mr. Raffarin as prime minister. ''It is always dangerous to use trickery with the voters, thus with democracy,'' it said. ''Jacques Chirac has just done it. At his risk and peril.''
 As foreign minister, Mr. de Villepin enraged the Bush administration with his relentless criticism of the American-led war and occupation in Iraq and struggled to realize a new activist, romantic vision of the world in which France would regain the centrality it lost long ago.
 In the French political environment, Mr. de Villepin's appointment as interior minister is considered a promotion. He will be responsible for the country's security from the local to the national level, elections, and policies on international and domestic terrorism and immigration, including the integration of Muslim and Arab communities into French society.
 The French counterintelligence service, the Directorate for Territorial Surveillance, also reports to the interior minister.
 Mr. de Villepin, 50, who served as Mr. Chirac's chief of staff before becoming foreign minister, thus moves to stage center of French politics. In a midsize country like France, foreign policy is widely seen as a sideshow.
 Mr. de Villepin's successor, a European Union commissioner, Michel Barnier, 53, is a former environment minister and lifelong Gaullist politician with close ties to Mr. Chirac.
 Best known for successfully organizing the 1992 winter Olympics in his native Savoy without raising taxes when he was a parliamentary deputy, Mr. Barnier has had foreign policy experience in dealing with European regional issues, but little exposure to the United States and the rest of the world.
 He has been less critical of the United States in public than Mr. de Villepin and views France's position in the world through the lens of Europe rather than from the country's permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council.
 Mr. Barnier's first comments to France Inter radio minutes after his appointment underscore the extent to which his vision is more modest than that of Mr. de Villepin, who writes articles on Napoleon and poetry in his spare time.
 ''I am putting at the core of France's foreign dealings the construction of Europe, which is, at the moment, an extremely passionate and serious interest,'' he said, adding that he wants ''to reinforce the influence of France in the European project.''
 Mr. Sarkozy, the newly appointed finance minister, replaces Francis Mer. He will be expected to reinvigorate France's weak economy, reduce unemployment (which hovers at 9.6 percent) and push through unpopular structural reforms of the economy with the same vigor he brought to cracking down on crime, terrorism and illegal immigration.
 As the country's most popular politician on the right -- outstripping even Mr. Chirac -- and one who wants to be president one day, Mr. Sarkozy will now be vulnerable to the same relentless criticism that Mr. Raffarin faced. But Mr. Sarkozy, the son of a Hungarian refugee whose full name is Sarkozy de Nagy-Bocsa, is thought to have the tough personality and personal charisma needed for the job.
 ''The finance minister in France is sort of a second prime minister,'' said Roland Cayrol, a political scientist at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques of Paris. ''Nothing gets done without his approval, so Sarkozy is getting what he wanted.''
 As budget minister in the early 1990's, Mr. Sarkozy, 49, oversaw substantial income tax cuts and was a firm advocate of reducing taxes.
 But he was passed over as prime minister when Mr. Chirac was reelected president two years ago. Mr. Sarkozy has never been completely trusted since he threw his support behind Mr. Chirac's rival, Edouard Balladur, in the 1995 presidential campaign.
 The other ministers, including Defense Minister Michele Alliot-Marie and Justice Minister Dominique Perben, have retained their jobs.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean-Pierre Raffarin, reappointed as prime minister of France, left Elysee Palace yesterday, followed by his cabinet director, Michel Boyon.
 Dominique de Villepin, left, moves from foreign minister to interior minister, and Nicolas Sarkozy from interior minister to finance minister. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Politics and Government; Elections

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (89%) Elaine Sciolino; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; Jean-Pierre (Prime Min) Raffarin; Nicolas (Min) Sarkozy; Dominique (Min) De Villepin; Michel Barnier

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) France; France

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



22 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Storm Leaves Swing Voters Feeling Less Certain Still

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, March 31 

 BODY:
From the beginning, Judy Pappas questioned the quickness with which the Bush administration went to war in Iraq. 
 She voted for President Bush, and considers herself a lifelong Republican. But by the time Mr. Bush's former counterterrorism chief, Richard A. Clarke, appeared on television last week saying that the administration had focused too much on Iraq and not enough on terrorism, she was doubting that she could vote for Mr. Bush again.
 ''It's a tough call, it's just one man,'' said Ms. Pappas, 58, a legal secretary, as she bought her morning coffee across from the Capitol here. ''But I feel we were set up. Do I believe Clarke? Yes, I do.'' 
 Still, Ms. Pappas is not convinced she wants to vote for John Kerry, the likely Democratic candidate. ''He's not a proven entity in my book,'' she said. ''Not yet.''
 In three dozen interviews this week in this swing state, a number of undecided voters sounded the same note as Ms. Pappas, saying they were growing ever more undecided the more they heard from Washington.
 Among partisan Democrats and Republicans, the testimony from Mr. Clarke and the Bush administration's reaction to it has only reinforced partisan feelings: those who firmly oppose Mr. Bush said they saw Mr. Clarke's testimony as confirmation that the president could not be trusted. Those who firmly support the president said Mr. Clarke was shifting his story to sell books.
 ''Clearly, he's got his own agenda,'' said Bill Gibson, 50, an investment banker. ''When he says the book has nothing to do with his timing, it's just absurd.'
 Jonathon Alexander, 39, walked into an upscale gym proclaiming: ''It's the first time I'm really excited to vote. I can't wait to get this guy out of office.''
 Some voters, including registered Democrats, said they continued to be impressed by Mr. Bush's response to the Sept. 11 attacks and would support him because of that. But some voters who were not committed to either candidate said in interviews that Mr. Clarke's testimony had reinforced their uncertainty about the president. And what they ultimately decide will be key here, a state where Mr. Bush beat Al Gore by a slim 165,000 votes in 2000.
 And the loss of of about 200,000 jobs in the four years since the last election has made Democrats think they could take it this year. The most recent statewide polls show Ohio to be a dead heat. Both parties are spending so heavily on ads that the average television watcher in this city is now likely to see 18 political ads a week. 
 Certainly many voters here say they have been following Mr. Clarke's statements and the debate around them. Barnes & Noble at the Easton Town Center, on Columbus's outskirts, said that it had sold out of Mr. Clarke's book and that four of the chain's other stores in the city had, too, within days of its release.
 Interviews backed up what national polls this week have shown. Compared to before the release of the Clarke book, according to a Pew Research poll, a smaller share of voters say Mr. Bush is the best person to defend the country against terrorism, but he continues to lead Mr. Kerry on that measure, and the percentage of people who say that Mr. Bush can best handle foreign policy has not declined.
 Among undecided or swing voters, however, the share of people who said Mr. Bush was the best candidate to handle terrorism had now declined to 50 percent from 72 percent in mid-March. At the same time, the portion of those who thought Mr. Kerry could better handle terrorism went to 13 percent from 11 percent, and those who thought that neither was better rose to 37 percent from 17 percent.
 Elmo Kallner, a retired school superintendent, explaining how he was going to approach the election this year, said, ''It comes down to the guy I'm going to trust for the next four years.'' 
 But he said that while he was disappointed with the way Mr. Bush had handled Iraq, he had not seen enough from Mr. Kerry to commit to him.
 Tim Long, 48, an investment banker getting a haircut downtown late Tuesday, said: ''I supported Bush last time. If I had to vote today, I wouldn't.'' The problem began, he said, with Iraq and the failure to find weapons of mass destruction. ''When he went in there, I said I trust him, I'm assuming I know what he's doing, I'm assuming he knows more than we're being told. At the end of the day, he misled us.''
 But Mr. Long said he was particularly bothered by the Bush administration's reaction to the Clarke book, in particular, its resistance, until Tuesday, to allowing testimony by Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser. ''I find it offensive,'' he said. ''You can only assume she has something to hide. She's on every talk show otherwise.''
 Ultimately, Mr. Long said, that damaged Mr. Bush's credibility: ''He's kind of condescending and not sincere, which surprised me. I thought he'd be someone you'd definitely be able to trust. I had based it on his father. He's very different from his father.''
 David Clarke, 20, a technology assistant at a law firm, said he was leaning toward casting his first presidential vote for Mr. Kerry, because he thought the administration was not being truthful in responding to Mr. Clarke's accusations. ''They say he's out of the loop. Why is he out of the loop?'' he asked. ''The counterterrorism chief is out of the loop?''
 But others said they did not find Mr. Kerry convincing. 
 ''I think Bush is getting a bum rap regarding all this,'' said Jan Bowen, 50, who said she was a registered Democrat who had voted for Mr. Gore but was leaning toward Mr. Bush. ''John Kerry would have to give me more concrete plans on the economy, on terrorism. I haven't heard anything specific enough, just a lot of blaming.''
 Char Schoonover, 57, a manager of a cosmetics counter at a mall north of the city, said she had not voted for Mr. Bush but was impressed by how he acted immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks.
 ''That was tough for the whole country,'' said Ms. Schoonover, who said she was a registered Democrat. ''The way he handled it was just first class. I think he's the real deal. I don't know much about John Kerry, but I think it'd be a terrible time to change leadership. I know what Bush has done and what he'd continue to do.''
 Rod Pritchard, who works for the city's housing program for the elderly, said that he was inclined to support the president because of his record on terrorism, but that the economy was the place where Mr. Kerry could pick up his support.
 ''Right now I think Bush is the person we need in there,'' he said as he walked in the North Mall with Ms. Randall after lunch. ''But I don't know. I'm still really concerned with the economy. Kerry's record in the Senate worries me.''
 Others questioned how much terrorism would affect people's votes. For them, the main issue is still the economy.
 ''I know so many highly educated people who are unemployed,'' said Brenda Bailey, 43, a mother of two who lives in Grove City, south of Columbus. ''A half-dozen engineers who have lost their jobs, people who thought they had it made, were living the good life. A lot of people are feeling the pinch, feeling this looming threat that they may not have a job in a year.''
 And many longed for less partisanship.
 For her part, Ms. Pappas said she wished the questions about terrorism could be decided in a less heated atmosphere. ''I would really like the truth, instead of the politics,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I think Bush is getting a bum rap regarding all this,'' Jan Bowen, left, said of his handling of terrorism. Elmo Kallner said he was disappointed with the way Mr. Bush had dealt with the Iraq issue but was undecided about his vote. And Brenda Bailey said the chief issue was the economy. (Photographs by Greg Sailor for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HIJACKING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%) Terrorism; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (58%) Kate Zernike; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) New York City; Washington (DC) ; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



23 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Governors Ask for Extension of Welfare Law

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31 

 BODY:
Governors of both parties appealed to Congress on Wednesday to pass a five-year extension of the 1996 welfare law, even as the Senate was caught up in growing partisan conflict over Democrats' demands that the measure include an increase in the minimum wage.
 In a letter to the Senate, governors said passage of a five-year reauthorization was essential to ''provide states with the predictability needed for continued success of welfare reform initiatives across the country.''
 Governors were instrumental in securing passage of the 1996 law, which broke with 60 years of social welfare policy and gave states vast discretion to run their welfare programs with lump sums of federal money. Since then, the number of people on welfare has dropped 60 percent, to 4.9 million. 
 Gov. John Hoeven of North Dakota, a Republican, and Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, a Democrat, told Congress that reaching agreement on welfare was an urgent priority. They wrote on behalf of the National Governors Association.
 Some lawmakers have suggested that Congress could keep renewing welfare programs for three months at a time, but governors said that would be a big mistake.
 Wade F. Horn, assistant secretary of health and human services in charge of welfare policy, said ''it would be tragic'' if Congress did not renew the 1996 law. ''States are clamoring to know the rules under which they will be operating for the next five years,'' Mr. Horn said.
 State welfare officials said they were delighted that the Senate voted overwhelmingly on Tuesday to increase spending on child care for welfare recipients and other low-income families. But they expressed concern that the bill could become bogged down in an election-year struggle between Republicans and Democrats in the Senate.
 Democrats like the provision of the bill that would add $7 billion to child care programs over the next five years. ''This is a huge victory for New York's families,'' said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York. But Democrats also insisted that the Senate vote on amendments dealing with the minimum wage, overtime pay, jobless benefits and other issues not technically germane to the welfare legislation. 
 Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana, a moderate Democrat, said, ''There's basic agreement on the core principles of the welfare bill, but I am becoming very concerned that these ancillary issues could prevent the bill from passing in the Senate.''
 The administration has opposed the $7 billion increase in child care, saying it is not needed. The House bill provides a $1 billion increase in automatic, or mandatory, spending for child care. 
 Senate Republicans said they would, at some point, make a deal with the Democrats to allow a vote on the minimum wage. But they want certain assurances in return, to guarantee a final Senate vote on the welfare bill and to clear the way for negotiations with the House, which passed its version of the legislation in February 2003.
 Lacking an agreement on how to proceed, the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, filed a motion to limit debate and amendments on the welfare bill. It takes 60 votes to approve such a motion.
 Dr. Frist said Democrats were endangering the welfare legislation, which he said could help millions of people escape poverty by moving from welfare to work. Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, said that while he could support some increase in the minimum wage, he believed that ''welfare reform is being blocked by the obstructionist tactics of the Democrats.''
 Democrats said their proposal, to raise the minimum wage to $7 an hour, from $5.15, over two years, was relevant to the welfare bill because many welfare recipients take jobs at or near that level. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, said Congress had received six raises since the minimum wage was last increased in 1997.
 Moreover, Democrats asserted that a significant number of Republican senators opposed a substantial increase in the minimum wage but wanted to avoid the political risks of voting against it in an election year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OVERTIME (77%); CHILD CARE (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%) Welfare (US); Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Minimum Wage; Labor; Governors (US); States (US) ; Welfare (US); Unemployment Insurance

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN HOEVEN (59%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (59%) Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004



24 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: For Americans, Gas Guzzlers Are Again Kings Of the Road

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 1 

 BODY:
Gasoline prices may be at an all-time high, but that is not deterring Americans from buying gas guzzlers.
 Maintaining a trend that dates back more than a decade, American buyers continued to shift from passenger cars to the largest and least fuel-efficient new vehicles that auto manufacturers offer, even as gasoline prices soar, according to the industry's March sales reports.
 National average pump prices hit $1.76 a gallon on Monday, the highest on record, according to the Energy Information Administration. But when inflation is taken into account, gasoline remains cheaper than it was in 1981, when prices peaked at just under $3 a gallon in 2004 dollars. 
 Large pickup trucks, large sport utility vehicles and luxury vehicles of all kinds remain favorites of new-car buyers despite their thirst for fuel. 
 ''These three major segments continue to drive overall industry sales,'' said George Pipas, chief industry sales analyst at the Ford Motor Company. ''Consumers have been unwilling, at this point, to trade off short-term fluctuations and translate that into a different kind of vehicle purchase, in either size or performance.'' 
 Over all, the industry sold 3.75 percent more vehicles last month than it did in March 2003, when consumer concerns about the impending invasion of Iraq helped keep sales sluggish, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. The latest monthly sales translate into an annual selling rate of 16.64 million vehicles. 
 Still, sales for the first quarter of 2004 fell short of analysts' expectations, a concern in a market that appears to be growing saturated with cars and trucks. 
 The share of the American market held by the Big Three domestic automakers -- General Motors, Ford Motor and the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler -- fell to 59.1 percent in the quarter, according to the Autodata Corporation. 
 But Honda, usually a potent rival to the Big Three and the most car-focused of the major automakers, saw its sales fall by 4.8 percent in March and its share of the market decline in the first quarter to 8 percent from 8.3 percent last year. Sales of Honda's two leading vehicles, the Accord and Civic sedans, fell by 13.3 percent and 6.3 percent, respectively, in March. 
 ''We have been seeing sales increase consistently for the light-truck side -- that has been the trend, no doubt about it,'' a Honda spokesman, Yuzuru Matsuno, said. ''But the midsize sedan and compact sedan segments have been suffering.''
 G.M., whose sales rose 6 percent last month, sweetened the pot for consumers on Thursday, offering $1,000 cash back on top of no-interest financing for many of its sport utilities and pickups, in a promotion it called ''Truckfest.'' 
 G.M. reported one notable exception to the American driver's big-rig sweet tooth: weak Hummer sales, off 26 percent for the quarter. But G.M.'s Cadillac brand had a strong March, with sales up 16.3 percent. Sales of the Escalade S.U.V. rose 9 percent. The super-sized Escalade ESV was up by 7.2 percent in March, and by 25 percent for the quarter. 
 Prices for Escalades and Hummer H2's both start at around $50,000, but G.M. did not offer nationwide incentives on the Hummer, as it did for the Escalade.
 Industrywide, large sport utility vehicles accounted for 5.48 percent of all sales in March, up from 5.15 percent a year earlier, according to Ward's. Large pickup trucks rose to 14.4 percent from 13.2 percent a year ago, while smaller pickups' share fell to 4.15 percent from 4.6 percent a year ago. 
 Even Porsche, whose name was associated almost exclusively with luxury sports cars just a few years ago, sold more than twice as many trucks as cars in the first quarter, mainly on the strength of its Cayenne S.U.V.
 At what point will fuel prices start affecting purchasing decisions? 
 In interviews along a strip of car dealerships on West Central Avenue in Toledo, Ohio, this week, dealers and customers said that it was hard not to suffer sticker shock at the gas pump. But they also said it would take higher prices over a longer stretch of time to alter their vehicle buying habits. 
 ''I think at $3, they'll be moaning and groaning,'' Don Ansted, the general sales manager at Jim White Toyota, said of his customers. ''But they pay $4 or $5 a gallon for water, and most of it's tap water, from what I'm told. We don't have anybody trading in the big S.U.V.'s for small cars.'' 
 Walter Scholl, 71, was trading in his red F-150 pickup for a new beige one at the Ford dealership down the road. Mr. Scholl, who works at a lawnmower repair shop, said he would not consider a smaller truck, even if gas prices kept rising.
 ''You get around $2 or something and it would make a difference,'' he said, ''but I'd just cut back on my driving.'' 
 In Toledo, service stations were charging about $1.70 a gallon for unleaded regular, according to AAA, formerly the American Automobile Association. In the Northeast, prices tend to be higher -- as much as $1.93 a gallon in New York City, compared with $1.82 a year ago. The highest prices are in California, where regular is averaging $2.12 a gallon, AAA said. 
 Nationwide, regular gasoline costs 28 cents more a gallon now than it did at the beginning of the year, according to government figures. That would increase the cost of filling a Cadillac Escalade ESV's 31-gallon tank by $8.68, to $54.56 -- though a Cadillac buyer might choose a higher octane instead of regular and pay even more. 
 The continuing shift toward larger vehicles was also propelled by a host of new products. For example, Nissan recently introduced three new full-size vehicles: the Armada and Infiniti QX56 sport utilities and the Titan pickup. They helped Nissan to its best month ever, with sales up 30.3 percent from March 2003. 
 Ford's sales rose 2.3 percent, according to Ward's. The company's redesigned F-Series pickup truck, the best-selling vehicle of any kind in the nation, posted an 18.3 percent gain in March. The No.2 and No.3 vehicles are also large pickups: the Chevrolet Silverado and the Dodge Ram. 
 DaimlerChrysler's overall sales fell 2.7 percent in March, though its redesigned Dodge Durango full-sized sport utility rose 12 percent. 
 Toyota's sales rose 5.53 percent. One Toyota customer in Toledo, Grace Afridi, said that gasoline was on her mind when she bought a Toyota Matrix, a small car, two months ago. 
 ''My 17-year-old notices -- he only buys a little bit at a time,'' said Ms. Afridi, a real estate agent from Perrysburg, Ohio. ''I look at it like groceries: you've got to get it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Unlike many Americans, Grace Afridi of Ohio bought a small car recently. (Photo by Tom Pidgeon for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Size Is Selling''Soaring gas prices have not deterred consumers from buying more of the largest, most fuel-thirsty new vehicles.Graph tracks change in new-vehicle sales from a year earlier, (large S.U.V.'S, large pickups and all other vehicles, plotted monthly since 2003.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Auto Sales in March''ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States.Graph tracks sales for cars and light trucks, seasonally adjusted, from September 2002 to March 2004.INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States.Cars2004: 691,9682003: 692,236CHANGE*: -0.04%Light trucks2004: 812,1922003: 757,501CHANGE*: +7.22Total2004: 1,504,1602003: 1,449,737CHANGE*: +3.75CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2003 sales.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 178,341CHANGE: +8.0MARKET SHARE: 25.8%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 107,766CHANGE: -6.6MARKET SHARE: 15.6ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 90,054CHANGE: -4.7MARKET SHARE: 13.0HondaNUMBER SOLD: 70,884CHANGE: -5.0MARKET SHARE: 10.2Daimler-Chrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 54,395CHANGE: -12.6MARKET SHARE: 7.9NissanNUMBER SOLD: 54,949CHANGE: +13.0MARKET SHARE: 7.9TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier.Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 80,056CHANGE: +18.3%Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 58,235CHANGE: +3.4Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 42,976CHANGE: +10.4Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 35,100CHANGE: -9.2Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 31,098CHANGE: -13.3Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 30,175CHANGE: +37.4Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 29,862CHANGE: -0.4Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 28,199CHANGE: -13.5Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 27,862CHANGE: -16.0Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 26,854CHANGE: -6.3Nissan AltimaNUMBER SOLD: 24,716CHANGE: +21.7Chevrolet MalibuNUMBER SOLD: 23,117CHANGE: +58.0LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2003 sales.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 232,742CHANGE: +4.5%MARKET SHARE: 28.7%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 197,546CHANGE: +7.9MARKET SHARE: 24.3Daimler-Chrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 161,377CHANGE: +1.1MARKET SHARE: 19.9ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 84,155CHANGE: +19.1MARKET SHARE: 10.4HondaNUMBER SOLD: 44,965CHANGE: -4.4MARKET SHARE: 5.5NissanNUMBER SOLD: 35,577CHANGE: +70.3MARKET SHARE: 4.4*Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Land Rover sales. $SIncludes Mercedes-Benz sales.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); TRENDS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SEDANS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (76%); LUXURY GOODS (72%) Automobiles; Sales; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (57%) General Motors Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); HNDA (LSE) (84%); HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



25 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry at Bank Looks at Accounts Of Diplomats

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
As the F.B.I., banking regulators and a Congressional committee look more deeply into Saudi Arabian transactions at a Washington bank used widely by diplomats, a host of accounts controlled by representatives of several Mideast countries have also come under scrutiny, according to a person briefed on the investigations.
 Investigators have been examining cash transactions in foreign accounts at the bank, Riggs National, especially those for Saudi Arabia, for possible connections to terrorist groups or money-laundering activities. Accounts controlled by diplomats from Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Oman have been included in the inquiry as well, this person said. Saudi representatives said that investigators had told them that their Riggs accounts were not tainted. 
 In addition to the Middle Eastern accounts, a corporate account controlled by the president of the West African nation of Equatorial Guinea, Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasago, is also being examined. Millions of dollars in money that regulators and the bank have identified as questionable have flowed through that account. It was opened under the name of a corporation called Otong, and money began moving through it as early as 1999, according to a regulatory report dated Jan. 30 that Riggs filed with federal regulators.
 Although Riggs closed all of its Equatorial Guinean accounts in February, activity in accounts before then has drawn attention because Exxon Mobil, the oil giant, deposited about $300 million into Mr. Mbasago's personal Riggs accounts. Although Equatorial Guinea has struggled with poverty, its economy has grown sharply in recent years because of the discovery of large oil reserves there. Exxon Mobil is one of the country's biggest oil producers.
 It is not clear whether money from Exxon Mobil found its way into the Otong account. Exxon Mobil and Equatorial Guinean officials could not be reached for comment. 
 Seven transactions in the Otong account from September 1999 to April 2002 that totaled about $11.5 million have drawn special scrutiny. A Riggs compliance officer told Riggs's own investigators last September that money in the Otong account came from overseas accounts that Mr. Mbasago had closed -- an explanation that federal investigators have found unsatisfactory. Federal officials are looking into the possibility that money in the Otong account was used to bribe employees of American companies or involved the proceeds of political graft, according to an individual with direct knowledge of the investigation.
 The role played by Equatorial Guinea's ambassador to the United States, Teodoro Biyogo Nsue, in the transfers is also being investigated. 
 Riggs has been cooperating with the F.B.I. investigation and regulatory examinations since the fall of 2002 and said it had not ''willfully'' violated any laws. ''Riggs always cooperates with regulators and law enforcement officials, but Riggs has no indication that we are or ever were the target of an F.B.I. investigation,'' Adam Weiner, a spokesman for the bank, said.
 The investigation was touched off by an examination of transactions at Riggs by Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the United States, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, and his wife, Princess Haifa, in 2002. At the time, F.B.I. officials were investigating whether money from the princess's accounts wound up in the pockets of two of the people involved in the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center. The New York Times reported in late 2002 that the F.B.I. found no evidence that the money went to the hijackers. F.B.I. officials could not be reached for comment last night.
 Saudi Arabia's possible financial sponsorship of terrorist groups has drawn close attention from law enforcement officials since the Sept. 11 attacks and the Riggs accounts initially drew attention as part of that inquiry, according to one federal investigator briefed on the inquiry.
 A spokesman for the Saudi Arabian Embassy said that the ''F.B.I. has repeatedly and as recently as a week ago informed the embassy that there were no concerns'' now that the Saudi accounts at Riggs involved terrorist funds or the proceeds of money laundering.
 Riggs closed all of its Saudi accounts in early March after it became concerned that the Saudis were not complying with tighter supervisory guidelines the bank imposed on all of its diplomatic accounts a year ago. A person briefed on the matter said that although activity in the accounts had quieted down last summer and fall, largely because Prince Bandar was in Saudi Arabia and Britain most of that time, unusual spikes in banking transactions began occurring again last winter, prompting the bank's action.
 The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that regulators were examining $50 million in Saudi withdrawals from Riggs accounts, some in increments exceeding $1 million.
 In addition to the F.B.I. investigation, Riggs is also being investigated by the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Governmental Affairs and by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the banking regulator for the Treasury Department.
 In March of last year, the comptroller's office identified several areas where Riggs had fallen short in terms of complying with federal guidelines to combat money laundering. Its examiners were in the bank almost daily from last March until July. During that time, and since, the bank began instituting what it considered to be more stringent controls to combat money laundering at the bank, including the hiring of extra employees and specialists in fraud supervision, according to a long list of measures provided by Riggs.
 Last July, the comptroller's office took the unusual step of imposing a strongly worded ''consent order'' on Riggs. The order, a public document, outlined the steps the bank needed to take to comply more fully with standards on laundering. But the comptroller's office continued to be disappointed by the steps Riggs was taking to tighten standards.
 In March, the comptroller's office told the bank that it planned to designate it as a ''troubled'' institution, according to Securities and Exchange Commission documents Riggs filed about two weeks ago. The bank may also face substantial fines. Designation as a troubled institution means that Riggs, a midsize concern with about $7 billion in assets, would no longer be able to appoint senior officials to manage its affairs without first securing regulatory approval.
 Though there has been speculation on Wall Street that Riggs's woes may result in a forced sale of the bank, it is unlikely that regulators would push for such a sale. Regulators force the sale of a bank only when it is insolvent, has serious liquidity problems, or is designated as a criminal enterprise -- conditions that do not apply to Riggs at this point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (76%); MONEY LAUNDERING (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); ETHICS (62%) Terrorism; Money Laundering; Terrorism; Ethics

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%) Riggs National; Otong (Co); Exxon Mobil 

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%)

PERSON: Teodor Obiang Nguema (Pres) Mbasogo; Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%) SAUDI ARABIA (95%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); OMAN (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%) Saudi Arabia; Dubai; Abu Dhabi; Oman; Equitorial Guinea

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



26 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: White House Undermined Chemical Tests, Report Says

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1 

 BODY:
A report released by a House committee on Thursday describes how the Bush administration worked with the United States chemical industry to undermine a European plan that would require all manufacturers to test industrial chemicals for their effect on public health before they were sold in Europe. 
 The administration had said publicly that the proposal last year would threaten the $20 billion in chemicals that the United States exports to Europe each year because the cost of testing would be prohibitive. Five years in the making, the proposal, which was revised and is still under consideration, would shift the burden to prove the safety of chemicals onto manufacturers instead of governments.
 Behind the scenes, the administration was working with the chemical industry to devise a plan to undermine the proposal, according to e-mail messages and documents released in the report. 
 The Bush administration said the proposal was unsound science and an abuse of regulatory authority, a similar accusation leveled against Europe for its demand that genetically modified food be labeled as such before it is marketed.
 European officials said the testing plan was necessary because of an increase in health problems like allergies and male infertility. The costs of cleaning up damage from chemicals like asbestos is already in the billions of dollars, they said.
 The office of the United States trade representative asked the industry to develop themes the administration could use to discourage the European Union from adopting the new testing program, according to an e-mail message dated April 4, 2003, and obtained by the House investigator.
 Catherine Novelli, the assistant United States trade representative for Europe, was cited in the e-mail message, which read: ''At the last meeting, Cathy had tasked the industries to come up with 'themes' for their concerns about the proposed legislation. The chemical industry had done a list of themes dealing with the E.U. process.''
 Other e-mail messages describe the role of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, top Commerce Department officials and officials from the Environmental Protection Agency in lobbying European countries, singling out several countries, especially Sweden and Finland. 
 One e-mail message from the trade officials urged the chemical industry to ''get to the Swedes and Finns and neutralize their environmental arguments.''
 Richard Mills, the spokesman for the United States trade representative, said Thursday that the administration estimated that ''one million jobs are on the line -- you're darned right we raised our concerns with the European Union.''
 ''The regulations would not help the environment because they were unworkable,'' Mr. Mills said. ''We want regulations that protect the environment and don't stifle U.S. jobs and economic growth.''
 The report, requested by Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, says that American environmental groups and the general public were kept out of the administration's closed discussions and strategy sessions.
 ''We were frozen out,'' said Joseph Digangi of the Environmental Health Fund, an advocacy group cited in the report. ''The administration went directly to the U.S. chemical industry and adopted their position whole cloth.''
 Anthony Gooch, the spokesman for the European Commission in the United States, said of the report: ''There would seem to be an inordinate weight given to only one side of a complex argument. Significant concerns about the environment and public health seem to be totally absent from their policy.''
 The lobbying efforts of the United States appear to have succeeded. The European Union revised the proposal, known as Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals, or Reach. 
 Five months after trade officials sent e-mail messages discussing how to persuade senior European officials to demand new cost-benefit analyses, France, Germany and Britain wrote to the president of the European Commission requesting a new assessment of the effects that the program would have on the industry.
 The American Chemistry Council, a trade group, noted in its 2003 annual report that it had ''rallied opposition to the draft proposal, including a major intervention by the U.S. government.'' 
 ''The questions the U.S. government is raising about the global impact of Reach are perfectly sensible,'' said Greg Lebedev, the president and chief executive of the American Chemistry Council. ''American companies have a stake in Europe as investors, manufacturers and suppliers.''
 Under current rules, about 99 percent of the total volume of chemicals sold on the markets have not been subjected to testing requirements. 
 One subject of the lobbying proposal was Margot Wallstrom, commissioner for the environment at the European Union. In an April e-mail message, an official of the trade representative said: ''But who will take on Wallstrom -- the answer is only other ministers or heads of state. The U.S.G. plans to send in our ambassadors to member states and commission to make our case.''
 Ms. Wallstrom said that the reform proposal was necessary because ''there is no control whatsoever of the 400 million tons of chemicals sold in the European Union each year.''
 Mr. Powell sent several cables on the issue. In one, he warned that $8.8 billion in products were at risk of being banned or severely restricted under Europe's proposed system, a figure from a study by the chemistry council. His cables were sent to trading partners in Latin America and Asia as well as Europe to oppose the proposal.
 The main chemical regulation in the United States is the 1976 Toxic Substance Control Act, which has been widely criticized for being weak and too deferential to industry. The vast majority of nonpesticide chemicals are not subject to any required screening before introduction here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (92%); CHEMICALS MFG (92%); CHEMICALS TRADE (90%); CHEMICALS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); ASBESTOS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (54%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (51%) Chemicals; Tests and Testing; International Trade and World Market; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Accidents and Safety; Chemicals

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (58%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); FINLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SWEDEN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



27 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3618 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC AND DANCE GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy opera, classical music and dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region.

Opera

''MADAMA BUTTERFLY.'' On March 25 Liping Zhang, a soprano born in Beijing, made her Metropolitan Opera debut in the title role of Puccini's opera, for which she has already received rapturous reviews from London to Detroit. Sadly, coming in the middle of the production's run, her debut went without special mention in the Met's own press release, let alone (so far) in the local press. If she's even half as good as some hardened critics have maintained, her appearance here should not be missed. She will sing the role again tonight, along with Richard Leech, who has it in him to belt out a fine Pinkerton if he's in good form, and the equally able and equally uneven Dwayne Croft, under the experienced if slightly heavy-handed baton of Julius Rudel. Tonight at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, (212) 362-6000. Remaining tickets: $100 to $195 (Anne Midgette).

''THE MARRIAGE OF FIGARO.'' The homespun but attractive qualities of the Amato Opera's productions and the intimacy of its shoe-box theater provide a useful change of perspective for operagoers accustomed to the big houses uptown. The casts here vary: at the very least the singers are eager and enthusiastic and sometimes the singing shows great promise. Anthony Amato, the company's founder, conducts the performances with an evident love of the music. Amato's current offering is its intimate production of Mozart's ''Marriage of Figaro,'' performed in English. Tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 2:30 p.m., Amato Opera Theater, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200. Tickets: $30; $25 for children under 12 and 65+ (Allan Kozinn).

''TOSCA.'' The director Mark Lamos's spare, modern and sleek production of Puccini's ''Tosca'' at the New York City Opera provides quite a contrast to the lavishly realistic one by Franco Zeffirelli at the Metropolitan Opera. The main interest in tomorrow's ''Tosca,'' the first of the season, will be the City Opera debut of Michele Capalbo in the title role. This young artist comes highly recommended by opera buffs. Carlo Ventre, a tenor also making his company debut, is Mario Cavaradossi. Grant Youngblood sings Scarpia and Joseph Rescigno conducts. Tomorrow night at 8, New York State Theater, (212) 870-5570. Tickets: $30 to $110 (Anthony Tommasini).

''DIE WALKURE.'' Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle is back at the Metropolitan Opera and the strong start the company made with a gripping recent performance of ''Das Rheingold,'' the first of the four operas, continues with ''Die Walkure'' in a rhapsodic and affecting performance conducted by James Levine. The bass James Morris, an acclaimed Wotan, seemed a man possessed, singing with chilling power and risk-taking determination, which more than compensated for some moments of patchy pianissimos. The soprano Jane Eaglen brought her formidable and lustrous voice to the role of Brunnhilde. At 63, Placido Domingo sang Siegmund with, if anything, more vocal ardor and virility than four years ago when the Met last presented the ''Ring.'' And Deborah Voigt was again vocally sublime and touchingly vulnerable as Sieglinde. The newcomer to this cast of veterans, the mezzo-soprano Yvonne Naef, was an earthen-voiced and volatile Fricka. Tomorrow at 12:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, (212) 362-6000. Remaining tickets: $375, with limited availability (Tommasini).

''XERXES.'' This Handel opera has returned to City Opera in Stephen Wadsworth's much-lauded English-language production, which updates the action to 18th-century England. The sets are simple yet attractive and the stage direction is admirably fluid, allowing the drama to develop and breathe without sacrificing any of the music's delicacy and refinement. Full of romantically frustrated characters, the opera charts the vicissitudes of love, the irrational pull of the passions, and the twinned arrogance and impotence of power in concerns of the heart. Sarah Connolly is excellent in the title role, singing with authority, consistency and impressive control. The rest of the cast is uniformly strong with Amy Burton, Lisa Saffer, Beth Clayton and David Walker as the standouts. Gary Thor Wedow conducts. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, (212) 870-5570. Tickets: $30 to $110 (Jeremy Eichler).

Classical Music

AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA. Leon Botstein and his orchestra specialize in thematic programming that often brings a period of music history into sharp and welcome relief. This weekend's concert, ''Victorian Secrets,'' explores the quest undertaken by English composers to forge a distinctive national tradition. The program will include rarely heard works by Frank Bridge, Charles Villiers Stanford and Arthur Sullivan, who did have musical ambitions independent of his famed collaboration with William S. Gilbert. Also on the program will be Elgar's attractive orchestra song cycle, ''Sea Pictures,'' with the mezzo-soprano Susan Platts. Tonight at 8, Avery Fisher Hall, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: $22 to $50. A preconcert lecture begins at 6:30 in Clark Studio Theater, Rose Building, Lincoln Center (Eichler).

AMOR ARTIS CHORUS AND ORCHESTRA. This group, well remembered for performances of Baroque and Classical music many years ago, has maintained a lower profile in recent years. Here Johannes Somary, in his 43rd season as founding music director, conducts Bach's ''St. John Passion.'' The vocal soloists are led by Jonathan Goodman, as the Evangelist, and Kevin Deas, as Jesus. Tonight at 8, Church of the Blessed Sacrament, 152 West 71st Street, Manhattan, (212) 874-4513. Tickets: $20; $15 for students and 62+ (James R. Oestreich).

BARGEMUSIC. With its view of the Manhattan skyline and its live, intimate acoustics, this barge floating gently on the East River is one of the finest places in the city to hear solo and chamber music. Vladimir Stoupel, a pianist, anchors the programs this weekend. Tonight he plays ''La Valse,'' by Ravel, and works by Schubert and Scriabin. Tomorrow and Sunday Mr. Stoupel is joined by Anna Rabinova, a violinist, and Daire FitzGerald, a cellist, in trios by Weber, Schumann and Benjamin Lees. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, and Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing, under the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083. Tickets: $35; students, $20 (Oestreich).

ENSEMBLE ALEPH. This adventurous contemporary music ensemble from France makes its New York debut tonight, and the performers have chosen a hip place to introduce themselves: the Tenri Cultural Institute in Greenwich Village. You can get an idea of the spirit of the ensemble from the title of the opening work on the program: Mauricio Kagel's ''Rrrrr, 5 Jazzstucke.'' There is a work by the brainy and alluring Pierre Boulez, but also one by the champion of change procedures, John Cage. As well as pieces by Georges Aperghis, Camille Roy, Robert Peterson and Dominique Clement. Tonight at 8, Tenri Cultural Institute, 43A West 13th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 645-2800. Tickets: $15; $10 for students and 65+ (Tommasini).

ENSEMBLE MASQUES. This Canadian period-instrument band, based in Montreal, makes its New York debut with a program devoted to music of the German Baroque. Bach is represented by the Trio Sonata in D minor (BWV 527) in an arrangement for two violins and continuo, but most of the music is by his predecessors, including Samuel Scheidt, Johann Pachelbel, Heinrich von Biber, Dietrich Becker and Johann Staden. Sunday at 5 p.m., the Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700. All tickets to the concert, which is free, have been distributed, but a line for returned tickets will form one hour before the performance (Kozinn).

BARNABAS KELEMEN. The winner of the International Violin Competition of Indianapolis receives money, a recording on Naxos, a lengthy tour and the use of a Stradivarius violin. Barnabas Kelemen, a Hungarian violinist who won the quadrennial competition in 2002, has all of those, and the competition is presenting him at Carnegie Hall tonight in a solid B program -- that is, Beethoven, Bartok and Brahms. Competition victories don't always guarantee success, but Indianapolis has a good track record -- past winners include Ida Kavafian, Kyoko Takezawa and Leonidas Kavakos -- and Mr. Kelemen has been winning accolades for his subsequent appearances and Romantic flair. Gergely Boganyi accompanies on piano. Tonight at 8, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800. Tickets: $20 to $40 (Midgette).

BENEDICT MASON. The latest installment in the Miller Theater's essential Composer Portraits series is devoted to Benedict Mason, an English composer who was born in 1955 and began his professional life as a filmmaker before turning to composition in the 1980's. His style is eclectic, vigorous and often amusing, and he is bound to be well-served by Alarm Will Sound, the superb new-music ensemble led by Alan Pierson. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Miller Theater at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799. Tickets: $20; $12 for students (Kozinn).

NEW YORK COLLEGIUM. This period-instrument band has responded particularly well to the English conductor Andrew Parrott, who took over as music director two years ago. Here Mr. Parrott leads it in an unusual program, ''J. S. Bach's Lost Memorial to Prince Leopold,'' a re-creation of Bach's ''Lament, Children, Lament for All the World'' (BWV 244a), performed at the funeral of Bach's former patron at the court of Cothen, in 1729. Bach set the text for the occasion to music from other works, including his ''St. Matthew Passion'' (BWV 244) and Cantata No. 198 (''Trauer Ode''). Tonight at 8, New York Society for Ethical Culture, Central Park West at 64th Street, (212) 717-9246. Tickets: $27 to $47; $15 for students (Oestreich).

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC. Last weekend, Lorin Maazel and the orchestra performed a nicely matched program of symphonies, Schubert's Eighth and Bruckner's Seventh. Here they follow with Schubert's Ninth Symphony, a work that points even more clearly than the Eighth toward Bruckner. In addition, Julian Rachlin, a young, acclaimed Lithuanian-born violinist, makes his Philharmonic debut in Krzysztof Penderecki's Concerto No. 2, ''Metamorphosen.'' This afternoon at 2 and tomorrow night at 8, Avery Fisher Hall, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: today, $22 to $72; tomorrow, $27 to $94 (Oestreich).

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC MUSICIANS. Many orchestral musicians relish the opportunity to sample the independence and more modestly scaled pleasures of chamber music. In this case the principal string players of the New York Philharmonic are joined by the pianist Jeremy Denk for a program of chamber music by Schumann and Brahms, including the well-loved Schumann Piano Quintet. Sunday at 3 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500. Tickets: $40 (Eichler).

ORION STRING QUARTET AND MARC NEIKRUG. One dependable way for composers to make sure their music gets heard is to perform it themselves. The composer and pianist Marc Neikrug will adopt this strategy tomorrow when he gives the local premiere of a quintet he wrote to play with the fine musicians of the Orion String Quartet. Also on the program will be works by Haydn and Bartok. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500. Tickets: $35 (Eichler).

ANDREAS SCHOLL. A true countertenor of the times the German singer Andreas Scholl takes his voice type past mere curiosity status deep into the realm of expressive artistry. At his best he sings with a sound as clear, smooth and penetrating as a wet finger rubbing the edge of a crystal glass. For his Lincoln Center recital he has chosen a program of less-known Baroque vocal music, from songs by Johann Nauwach to cantatas by Handel, accompanied by Markus Markl on harpsichord. Sunday afternoon at 2, Alice Tully Hall, (212) 721-6500. Tickets: $42 (Midgette).

Dance

ALPHA OMEGA DANCE. The program will include a revival of Eleo Pomare's classic ''Narcissus Rising'' and ''Tango Entre Tu y Yo,'' a new piece by company artistic director Enrique Cruz DeJesus and Angel Garcia, a Mexican specialist in tango and folkloric dance. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Aaron Davis Hall, West 135th Street and Convent Avenue, Hamilton Heights, (212) 650-7100. Tickets: $15; $10 for students and 65+ (Jennifer Dunning).

KIMBERLY BRANDT AND ALLISON FARROW. This is an evening of dance that is clearly not for the fainthearted, featuring as it does vomiting beauticians, fierce automatons and a gender-confused investigation of Freudian constructs, performed with live video and by untrained dancers. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. Williamsburg Art neXus, 205 North Seventh Street, Brooklyn, (718) 599-7997. Tickets: $12 (Dunning).

BROOKLYN ARTS EXCHANGE: MELISSA BRIGGS AND NAMI YAMAMOTO. Ms. Briggs will present ''The Book Project,'' which draws on scenes from ''Anna Karenina,'' ''The Fountainhead,'' ''East of Eden'' and Jane Hamilton's ''Disobedience.'' Ms. Yamamoto will present ''the last word was Papirepose,'' a series of three-minute dance and performance pieces. Part of the theater's ''First Weekend'' series, the program includes postperformance discussion with the artists. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 6 p.m. Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, (718) 832-0018. Tickets: $8 and $15 (Dunning).

BRIAN BROOKS MOVING COMPANY AND JULIE ATLAS MUZ. Mr. Brooks and his dancers confront the color green in ''Acre,'' a multimedia work set to music by John Stone. Ms. Muz takes on ''The Rite of Spring,'' complete with a cast of 12 New York City nightlife figures and music by Chicago's Butcher Shop Quartet, which will perform the Stravinsky score on guitar, bass and drums. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7. Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077. Tickets: $25 (Dunning).

CREATIVE OUTLET DANCE THEATER. This Brooklyn-based troupe celebrates its 10th anniversary with dance by company director Jamel Gaines that fuses modern dance, jazz and traditional West African movement. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, ext. 2229. Tickets: $20 to $40 (Dunning).

DD DORVILLIER. This highly original Bessie Award-winning choreographer will explore Performance Space 122 in its entirety in her new multimedia ''Coming Out of the Night With Names.'' Her four-member company, the Human Future Dance Corps, will move about the stage, dressing rooms, hallways and bathrooms to create a theater of memory, as four restless characters try to unravel the mysterious disappearance of a man who carries a basket of purple confetti. Tonight and tomorrow night (and Thursday through next Saturday) at 7:30; Sunday (and next Sunday) at 5 p.m. Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 477-5288. Tickets: $15 (Dunning).

''IT TAKES TWO'': ABT STUDIO COMPANY AND AILEY II. Two vibrant young companies, proven incubators of gifted new dancers and choreographers, have teamed up for a weeklong season. The ABT Studio Company will present world premieres by Brian Reeder and Laura Gorenstein Miller, as well as Frederick Ashton's ''Monotones'' and George Balanchine's ''Tarantella'' (tonight and Sunday afternoon). Ailey II will perform dances by Robert Battle, Igal Perry, Troy Powell and Nathan Trice (tomorrow afternoon and evening and Sunday afternoon). Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $34 (ABT); $31 with purchase of Ailey II ticket; $40 (Ailey); $36 with purchase of ABT ticket) (Dunning).

''LOOKING BOTH WAYS.'' Twelve dancers and choreographers who trained at James Madison University and are now working in New York City will present their pieces. They include Kelly Bartnik, Donna Costello, Shannon Hummel, Toby Billowitz and Jon Zimmerman. Tonight at 9; tomorrow and Sunday at 8 p.m. Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, Greenwich Village, (718) 499-0131. Tickets: $12; $10 for students and 65+ (Dunning).

NANCY MEEHAN DANCE COMPANY. A company known for works of great choreographic refinement celebrates its 33rd season. Ms. Meehan's dances often make use of nature imagery and have the stylistic purity and economy of haiku. Tonight through Sunday night at 8:30, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194. Tickets: $15 (Jack Anderson).

''MOSES.'' The biblical story of Exodus and its themes of liberation and deliverance have been important in both Jewish and African-American traditions. This new production gives the tale a contemporary urban setting and the choreography by Hope Boykin and Abdur Rahim-Jackson has been influenced by hip-hop. Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., Sunday at 3 and 8 p.m., Jewish Community Center, 344 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, Manhattan, (646) 505-5708. Tickets: $25 (Anderson).

''OUT OF SPACE @ BRIC STUDIO.'' The program, organized by Marya Wethers of the Danspace Project, features solos by Eleanor Bauer, Sharon Estacio, Takemi Kitamura, Christina May and Layard Thompson. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. BRIC Studio, 57 Rockwell Place, around the corner from the BAM Harvey Theater, Brooklyn, (718) 855-7882, ext. 53. Tickets: $10; $8 for students (Dunning).

RASTRO DANCE COMPANY. Julieta Valero, a Venezuelan dancer and choreographer who has worked in New York with Simone Forti, will present recent works set to Venezuelan folk music and to Bach. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479. Tickets: $15; $12 for students and 65+ (Dunning).

PILAR RIOJA. She's back, celebrating her 30th anniversary with her home theater, Repertorio Espanol, in a program of her most popular flamenco dances that runs through April 11. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 6 p.m. Repertorio Espanol, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850. Tickets: $25 to $40 (Dunning).

SECOND AVENUE DANCE COMPANY. A group made up of students from the dance department of New York University's Tisch School of the Arts presents a revival of Martha Graham's rousing ''Celebration'' (1934), and works by Alonzo King, Sean Curran, Larry Keigwin and student choreographers. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 8 p.m., Fifth Floor Theater, 111 Second Avenue, East Village, (212) 998-1982. Tickets: $10 (Anderson).

''SHARING THE LEGACY.'' This is the weekend for devoted dancegoers to camp out at Hunter College, which is presenting its annual in-depth look at the masterpieces of dance, performed by student dancers from universities and conservatories. More than 20 choreographers are represented, among them, tonight, Mary Wigman (''Hexentanz''), Isadora Duncan (''Varshavianka''), Jack Cole (''Happy Endings Every Time'') and Ruth St. Denis (''Lazy Nautch''); and, tomorrow, Michio Ito (''Ave Maria'' and ''Pizacatti'') and Erick Hawkins (''Classic Kite Tails''). Other choreographers include George Balanchine, Dominique Bagouet, Trisha Brown, Eve Gentry, Martha Graham, Maki Lake, Jose Limon, Alwin Nikolais, Anna Sokolow, Doris Humphrey and Cuban Pete. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7. Kaye Playhouse, 68th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues, (212) 772-4448. Tickets: $20; $15 for non-Hunter students and 65+. The event also includes master classes, discussions and a keynote address by Deborah Jowitt, starting at 10 a.m. each day (Dunning).

SOLAAS COMPANY. Catherine Solaas will present new dances that include ''Forms of Ceremony,'' set to traditional Eastern European music performed live by the vocal group Asuli, explores that human institution, the ceremony. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. University Settlement, 184 Eldridge Street. at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (917) 848-3806. Tickets: $12; $10 for students and 65+ (Dunning).

SUNDAYS @ THREE: BROOKLYN BALLET. Lynn Parkerson's new company will perform her ''Mystery Sonatas.'' Set to music by Heinrich Biber performed live, the piece addresses the themes of Christ's birth, life and resurrection and was inspired by the meditative repetition of rosary prayer. Sunday at 3 p.m. 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, Lexington Avenue at 92nd Street, (212) 415-5500. Tickets: $10 (Dunning).

THALIA DANCE SERIES: ROXANE BUTTERFLY. Ms. Butterfly and her all-female company of dancers and musicians, called Beauteez 'n' the Beat, will perform with guest dancer Tina Pratt in a program of freestyle tap dancing with live music, words, Afro-jazz rhythms and street dance. Tonight at 8:30. Thalia Theater at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400. Tickets: $21; $18 for students and 65+ The series continues on Thursday at 8:30 p.m. with Keigwin & Company in Keigwin Kabaret (Dunning).

GLORY VAN SCOTT. In her new program, ''New York Dance Divas and Divos,'' Dr. Van Scott will present seven dances, by choreographers who include Eleo Pomare, Joan Peters, Loretto Abbott and John Jones. The divas include Sarita Allen, Dyane Harvey and Ms. Abbott. The divos are Mr. Jones, Nat Horne and Gus Solomons Jr. Sunday at 7 p.m. Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400. Tickets: $20; $18 for students and 65+ (Dunning).

CHRIS YON. Mr. Yon, who has worked with Yoshiko Chuma, David Neumann and Basil Twist, is keeping the contents of his new ''Elephant Terrible'' show a secret with one exception. The program includes a reconstruction of ''Equinox-Run'' by his mentor Rudy Perez. Tonight and tomorrow night at 10; Sunday at 5:30 p.m. The Club at La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710. Tickets: $15 (Dunning).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of the ABT Studio Company in ''Tarantella'' at the Joyce. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 Michele Capalbo makes her City Opera debut in Puccini's ''Tosca.'' (Photo by Carol Rosegg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (93%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); DANCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



28 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: State Workers Resist Plans To Move Office Downtown

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
When Gov. George E. Pataki announced plans 21 months ago to move 750 to 1,000 state employees to Lower Manhattan, he said he was doing so to show confidence in its viability as it struggled to rebuild. 
 The only problem is that 425 State Health Department employees do not want to go. They are concerned about health conditions at 90 Church Street, the Art Deco tower at the edge of ground zero where the state is negotiating a lease. And the workers, who are now in a building on Eighth Avenue near Madison Square Garden, do not want to labor next to what will be a noisy, dusty construction site for the next decade. 
 One downtown broker called the state workers a bunch of ''prima donnas,'' but their small-scale drama offers a glimpse of the difficulties in luring companies and their employees to Lower Manhattan, despite cash incentives and sharply lower rents. 
 More than two years after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, some companies are reluctant to move downtown because their employees have qualms, lingering questions about air quality or worry about the inconveniences of working next to a long-term construction site.
 Last year, Bank of America brushed aside suggestions by state and city officials that it build its new headquarters downtown. Instead, it is erecting a skyscraper at 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas. Even the investment bank Goldman Sachs, one of the largest employers downtown, turned down state officials who urged it to move to the trade center site; it is negotiating to build a tower farther west at the World Financial Center.
 The HIP Health Plan of New York, some law firms and smaller companies have moved downtown, but the amount of vacant office space there continues to grow. According to the real estate services company CB Richard Ellis, the vacancy rate now stands at 15.6 percent, up from 15.1 percent a year ago and 5.1 percent in 2001. 
 The rate is expected to climb even higher as the developer Larry S. Silverstein builds two other towers totaling 4.3 million square feet -- 7 World Trade Center and the Freedom Tower on the trade center site -- because neither one has a tenant.
 People do not seem to have the same misgivings about living downtown. The residential market is hot, with 2,044 apartments under construction at eight projects south of Chambers Street and 5,651 more apartments in various stages of development.
 Jennifer Morris, a spokeswoman for the State Office of General Services, which is in charge of moving the health workers downtown, declined to discuss the lease negotiations, although she acknowledged that discussions had been held with the workers and that their health and safety were a primary concern. 
 ''The state is encouraging companies to move downtown,'' she said. ''If we don't lead by example, what does that say to the business community?''
 Ms. Morris said that none of the 750 to 1,000 employees cited by the governor in his 2002 announcement had relocated downtown yet. But a deal is imminent for the 425 Health Department workers near the Garden, at 5 Penn Plaza, and 75 others now in Queens.
 More than 220 of the employees at 5 Penn Plaza signed a petition in January objecting to the move to 90 Church Street, which was damaged in the Sept. 11, 2001, attack. Dust and debris had blown into the building and tests uncovered toxic substances, including asbestos, lead, mercury and mold from water poured onto the building.
 The landlord, Boston Properties, had hoped to open the building in 2002, but the clean-up effort dragged on. One tenant, the Legal Aid Society, canceled its lease, partly because of the contamination.
 ''Everybody thought it was a good idea not to go back,'' said James Rogers, the president of the union representing Legal Aid lawyers. ''Every page of our files had to be decontaminated.''
 Paul Stein, a Health Department lawyer who works at 5 Penn Plaza and a union official at the Public Employees Federation, said that many employees remained concerned about the building's air quality, as well as dust blowing inside as the trade center is rebuilt. 
 Downtown residents and many politicians are still distrustful of assurances from the federal Environmental Protection Agency. The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation issued a report in January conceding that there is a ''great deal of uncertainty regarding the long-term health impacts'' of Sept. 11.
 The union's environmental consultant, who inspected 90 Church Street, recommended further testing and the installation of air filters and extra windows. The consultant also suggested that the building's ventilators be moved away from the side of the building facing the trade center.
 Mr. Stein's union is working with the Civil Service Employees Association, which also represents state workers being moved downtown. The move may be inevitable, he said, but that is not the end of the matter.
 ''We're willing to move downtown,'' Mr. Stein said, ''but not adjacent to a construction site. If they force us to 90 Church, then it's essential that we have high-efficiency air filters, double-pane windows and the air intakes moved.''
 Robert E. Selsam, senior vice president of Boston Properties, declined to discuss the company's lease negotiations, but he played down environmental problems at 90 Church Street. ''It is as clean as any building ever could be,'' he said. ''We demolished all the interior walls and ceilings to make sure it was completely clean. We did an excruciatingly thorough cleanup.''
 Mr. Selsam said the building was vacant, but both the United States Postal Service and the city's Housing Authority were rebuilding their respective spaces.
 Shirley Jaffe, vice president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, blamed the economy for Lower Manhattan's rising vacancy rate, rather than lingering health concerns. ''But some small companies have taken advantage of the attractive rents and incentives,'' Ms. Jaffe said. ''The residential market has been very hot.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Stein, a Health Department lawyer, said workers were concerned about air quality at 90 Church Street. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); CITIES (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (63%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); CBRE GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); CBG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (53%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



29 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: A Factory Index Last Month Had Best Rise Since the 80's

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
An important index of manufacturing rose unexpectedly last month as production increased and more factories added workers than at any time since the 1980's, a survey released yesterday indicated.
 The Institute for Supply Management's factory index for March rose to 62.5 from 61.4 in February. The index has now exceeded 50, signaling expansion, for 11 months. 
 ''Plain and simple, this report tells us that the manufacturing sector is smoking,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn. 
 Reports from the government showed that the number of Americans filing initial claims for unemployment benefits dropped to 342,000 last week, from a revised 345,000, and that wholesale prices paid to manufacturers, farmers and other producers rose less than expected in February. A third report showed that construction spending fell 0.1 percent in February.
 The purchasing managers' employment index increased to 57 in March, the highest since December 1987, from 56.3 in February. That led to some speculation that the monthly employment report to be released today would show the first gains in manufacturing jobs since July 2000.
 Companies in the Midwest are preparing to hire more workers to keep pace with ''strong demand,'' Michael H. Moskow, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said yesterday in a speech at the University of Dayton. ''Many of our business contacts have told us that they will have to hire soon if strong demand continues'' and ''I think that it will.''
 The overall index average in the first quarter, also 62.5, was the highest since the fourth quarter of 1983. 
 The Labor Department said that the number of Americans filing initial jobless claims declined to 342,000 last week, below the average for the first three months. Filings have averaged 351,460 this year, down from 402,100 in all of 2003. The four-week average of unemployment claims, which smoothes out weekly fluctuations, was steady at 340,250.
 The department also reported that the Producer Price Index rose 0.1 percent in February, restrained by declines in the cost of drugs, light trucks and home heating oil. The increase came after a 0.6 percent rise in January. The so-called core rate, excluding food and energy, also increased 0.1 percent after rising 0.3 percent a month earlier.
 The report for February, originally scheduled to be released on March 12, was delayed because of difficulty converting current categories to a new system. 
 The Commerce Department said separately that construction spending declined 0.1 percent in February, a second consecutive decrease, led by declines in home building and government projects. The decline, to a $921.1 billion annual pace of spending, came after a revised 0.8 percent drop in January.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph tracks initial jobless claims (4-week moving average) since October 2003.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (86%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); HEATING OIL (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%) United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Building (Construction); Hiring and Promotion; United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON (54%) Institute for Supply Management; Labor Department (US); Commerce Department 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



30 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18; The City Life

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Proud Borough Needs Bard

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
Word that the city's benignly overlooked borough of Queens was urgently scratching about for a new poet laureate seemed counterintuitive. What could be more challenging as the theme for a true poet than the borough's defining spirit of restlessness? Its horizon swatchwork of grays and lack of pretension in the face of mortality begs a surfeit of lyricists. Anyone who wanders Queens -- or sleepily commutes through it -- can sense what a perch it offers a poet groping for life's meaning. As a onetime resident, I cherish it as a land rich with life's strivers, caught in what Allen Ginsberg called ''the dearness of the vanishing moment.'' 
 Imagine what Robert Lowell could have done with the borough's sprawling carpets of cemeteries? There's a baker's dozen created as the repositories for people from more crowded boroughs. Muse, hello: We're talking storehouses of afterlife! What more seductive allusion, particularly when played off the flesh-and-blood thrum of modern Queens -- the revitalized old hamlets and precincts booming with fresh waves of immigrant life, a multiethnic whirlpool of skin tones and tongues regenerating the city itself. ''Just as much as you,'' Walt Whitman timelessly foresaw, ''Each has his or her place in the procession.''
 So why the dearth of poet applicants? The departing laureate, Hal Sirowitz, wrote that Queens is the forgotten borough, squeezed between Manhattan and Brooklyn ''like the inside of a sandwich that has too much bread.'' But lunch meat it's not. The borough's first laureate, Stephen Stepanchev, a well-regarded poet, obviously finds Queens a powerful, if unassuming, place. In ''Losses,'' he writes: ''I draw a pail of stars/From the East River,/which turn to tears./My friends have all died or moved away./The sky is snowing ash.''
 But lo! as the poets say. There is news from Queens College that a story in The Times by Robert Worth on the laureate search has bestirred all manner of wordsmiths. ''A miracle -- 40 applicants and more,'' exulted David Cohen, a legendary Queens College librarian and teacher who leads the laureate search. ''I'm thriving on this,'' said Mr. Cohen, who at 94 has invested his life in the borough's spirit. He promises a new laureate by next week, singing to the borough's four corners.
 FRANCIS X. CLINES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POETRY (90%); SONG WRITING (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LIBRARIANS (66%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); LITERATURE (64%) Books and Literature; Poetry and Poets; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Editorials

PERSON: David (Prof) Cohen; Francis X Clines

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Queens (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



31 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 33; ART REVIEW

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Saving German Moderns From Their Tortured Past

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK

 BODY:
It is worth remembering that modern art was one of the forms of civilization that Hitler's Germany set out to destroy. In July 1937, Nazi officials, cracking down on what they viewed as a decadent misrepresentation of Nordic culture, seized 148 paintings, 27 sculptures and 319 drawings -- declaring all of them degenerate -- from the Kronprinzen Palace, the branch of Berlin's Nationalgalerie that was Germany's first museum of contemporary art.
 It was one of many Nazi raids on art museums. The Kronprinzen's significance to modern art had been established early on: in the first three decades of the 20th century, well before its counterparts in New York, Paris and London, it had acquired and shown important examples of modern art.
 Among the works confiscated from the museum were paintings and sculptures by Max Beckmann, Erich Heckel, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Franz Marc, Emil Nolde, Max Pechstein, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff and Wilhelm Lehmbruck; in short, the Expressionist heart of the Kronprinzen's collection. 
 Many of these pieces went on view at the infamous ''degenerate'' art show that opened in Munich on July 18 of that year. That exhibition signaled the end of the avant-garde in Nazi Germany and the retreat of its participants into exile or into private lives that left them torn between fighting or joining the brutal culture of the Third Reich.
 Not until 1968, with the building of the Neue Nationalgalerie, designed by Mies van der Rohe on Potsdamer Platz in West Berlin, was a home provided for the re-creation of the Kronprinzen Palace collection, almost completely destroyed by the degenerate art campaign. Some of the collection's former scope has been restored through the support of government and private collectors, as well as by the reunification of Germany in 1990, which made available work that had remained in East Germany. (The Communist-ruled German Democratic Republic also looked on modernist art with disfavor.)
 Today the museum is a flourishing enterprise, actively collecting and mounting exhibitions, and in touch with sister institutions throughout the world. Last month the Nationalgalerie opened ''MoMA in Berlin,'' with more than 200 works from the collection of the Museum of Modern Art. And now it has sent a show to Manhattan: ''Arcadia and Metropolis: Masterworks of German Expressionism From the Nationalgalerie Berlin,'' which is on view at the Neue Galerie.
 The exhibition was organized by Roland Marz, a curator specializing in avant-garde art at the Nationalgalerie, who also prepared the catalog. It touches on the history of German modern art as it developed in Berlin, first emerging around 1910 with the rebellious work of the Expressionists, and continuing with the Dadaists and then the post-World War I movement known as Neue Sachlichkeit (New Objectivity), whose artists, among them Otto Dix, George Grosz and Rudolf Schlichter, were more concerned with realism, but were also big on satire.
 ''Arcadia and Metropolis'' is not a large show -- it encompasses fewer than 40 paintings and several posters -- but it has many treasures, including two that were shown in the Nazis' ''degenerate'' exhibition: Nolde's exotic ''Papuan Boys'' of 1914 and Schmidt-Rottluff's hotly colored, partly abstract ''Self Portrait With Monocle'' of 1910.
 The exhibition's title is drawn from the early preference of the Expressionists for rural places, Arcadia, versus their later attraction to the city, Metropolis. At first they sought to bare their souls and emotions in idyllic, isolated outdoor settings: the countryside, mountains and shore. But during the restless years immediately before World War I, they rediscovered the city -- i.e., Berlin -- as a place of avant-garde nurture with its no-holds-barred literary, political and social climate and its noirish potential for wicked pleasures.
 One of the great paintings, perhaps the greatest, in this show is Kirchner's large canvas ''Potsdamer Platz'' (1914), which brilliantly expresses the feeling of alienation engendered by urban life. Front and center are two elongated figures of prostitutes; one, dressed in deathly black with a veil over her face, turns away from the other, who is more normally garbed and faces the viewer head on. In the background is a sketchy architectural view of the Potsdamer Platz, then one of the liveliest intersections in Europe. Men approach from nearby bars and cafes, but do not connect with the streetwalkers, who seem to symbolize the lure of the city but also its sorrows and unfulfillments. The painting's contrasts of color, bold black lines and jagged shapes advance the tension of the scene.
 By contrast, the Arcadian approach is evident in the show's earliest painting, Paula Modersohn-Becker's monumental but tender ''Kneeling Mother With Child'' (1907). It depicts a nude mother who gazes fondly, almost fiercely, down at her breast-feeding infant, in a paradisaical setting of turquoise sky, leafy plants and scattered red fruits.
 Modersohn-Becker, who settled in Worpswede, a quiet village not far from the city of Bremen, studied in Paris and came under the influences of Cezanne and Gauguin. Like Cezanne, she modeled her volumetric figures of mother and child with great strength; and like Gauguin, she colored her work exotically. In her search for simplicity combined with monumentality, Modersohn-Becker (who died in 1907 at 31 after childbirth) produced a powerful painting of great originality for her time. 
 Hannah Hoch was another strong artist, whose work was a world away from Modersohn-Becker's in its political awareness. She appears in the later part of the show. A member of the Berlin Dada scene, Hoch became known for her collages and photomontages. Shown here is her largest collage, ''Cut With the Dada Kitchen Knife: A Section Through the Last Weimar Beer-Belly Cultural Epoch in Germany'' (1919).
 A wild ride through the struggles of the doomed Weimar Republic, it depicts a farrago of artists, dancers, writers and other cultural figures in mad juxtapositions, along with political figures of the time. The mass unemployment of the era, its technological thrust and other Dada targets are also satirized. Its sharpness, wit and cunning craziness make it a Dada masterpiece.
 Like Hoch, Dix shared the Dada vision of social chaos in the postwar years, and his work here includes a haunting grotesquerie called ''The Skat Players'' (1920). In it, he used oil and collage for a satirical depiction of three former army officers, all crippled, playing cards in a cafe. A scruffy but determined trio, they are meant to symbolize the plight of society's outsiders, determined to survive in a world of postwar absurdities.
 As well as being a fantasist, Dix was a brilliant painter of realistic portraits. ''The Art Dealer Alfred Flechtheim'' is a sly, masterly look at a dealer who supported the avant-garde but regarded it with the eye of a salesman.
 Two paintings by Grosz affirm his place as one of the era's keenest social satirists. The more striking one is ''Gloomy Day'' (1921), another take on the problems of the Weimar Republic. A pompous ''boss'' with a portfolio under his arm swaggers in the foreground, separated by a brick wall from a crippled war veteran who walks past a factory building as a black marketeer lurks nearby. The painting and its title refer to social ills in the early Weimar years, and with his drawing skill and anger fueled by outrage, Grosz gets his message across.
 Fascinating as this show is, alas, it falls short of what the Nationalgalerie could have mounted in the years before the Nazis and the Berlin Wall. But over the decades it has made a remarkable recovery.

''Arcadia and Metropolis: Masterworks of German Expressionism From the Nationalgalerie Berlin'' is at Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, Manhattan, (212) 628-6200, through June 7.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Potsdamer Platz'' (1914) by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner shows a jagged side of Berlin life. (Photo by $
 2004 Nationalgalerie Berlin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WORLD WAR I (60%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: National Gallery (Berlin); Neue Galerie for German and Austrian Art (NYC)

PERSON: Grace Glueck

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (87%); FRANCE (71%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



32 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Estimates Of Job Creation Vs. the Facts

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
When the government's latest monthly report on jobs comes out this morning, economists will again be closely watching the numbers -- not just the number of new jobs created, but whether the numbers that they were forecasting are as embarrassingly off target as they have been in recent months.
 Since last fall, economists have each month consistently and sharply overestimated the number of jobs added by the economy. Since September, the consensus or median prediction has been that the economy would add, on average, about 110,000 new jobs a month. But that has turned out to be almost twice the actual number of 60,000 a month, as measured by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 And the forecasts have been getting more inaccurate, not less, of late. In January, when analysts predicted employment would grow by about 175,000 jobs, they rose by only 97,000. Last month, when analysts cut their expectations to roughly 130,000 new jobs, payrolls grew by far, far fewer: 21,000.
 Ever hopeful, many economists are still expecting a burst of employment. The consensus forecast this week puts employment growth at 120,000 jobs in March. Goldman Sachs is betting on 160,000. And High Frequency Economics is forecasting 200,000, saying good weather and the end of a supermarket strike in California should give the jobs data a big boost. 
 Some ''whisper numbers,'' which economists do not write down but which make their way into trading rooms along Wall Street, are even higher. Still, with nobody really sure why the forecasts have been so off target, even economists making the predictions are becoming less certain about their predictions. Some have gone back to their spreadsheets and calculators, puzzled by an economy that appears to be defying economic convention by growing robustly without adding jobs. 
 Ian Shepherdson, the chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, ventured that employment seemed more sluggish than it should be because the recovery began later than most people think. In his view, the terrorist attacks in September 2001 and subsequent wars in Afghanistan and Iraq pushed the beginning of the recovery back to the spring of 2003, instead of the widely assumed fall of 2001. ''If you accept this view, there is nothing much to worry on the employment front,'' he wrote.
 The economic team at Goldman Sachs tried another explanatory route: global outsourcing is leading to an overestimation of the nation's rate of economic growth. Goldman's analysis argued that statisticians were undercounting the importing of products and services produced abroad by suppliers and subsidiaries of American corporations. America's growth is thus slower than it appears to be, so sluggish payrolls should surprise nobody.
 Federal Reserve officials have taken the view that high productivity growth explains the mismatch between strong economic expansion and weak employment growth, as companies have been able to extract more output from each worker. They have argued that payrolls should eventually pick up because productivity growth is bound to slow. 
 Yet the puzzlement also extends to the Fed. ''Like many economists, I have been surprised by the unusually slow recovery of the labor market,'' a Fed governor, Ben S. Bernanke, acknowledged in a speech in North Carolina on Tuesday. 
 Forecasters are not necessarily apologetic, though. Mr. Shepherdson observed that the forecasting slips are well within the Bureau of Labor Statistics' margin of error of plus or minus 100,000 jobs. And even the bureau tends to revise its initial employment statistics in subsequent months. Moreover, ''we haven't been wrong enough for long enough,'' Mr. Shepherdson argued. ''If we were getting this margin of error for another six months I would be worried.'' 
 But other economists are concerned that the statistics they traditionally use to construct employment forecasts -- usually a combination of weekly jobless claims, help-wanted indicators and consumer and business surveys -- seem to be losing some of their predictive power and so are suggesting a much stronger labor market than is actually the case. For instance, initial jobless claims have been hovering around 350,000 a week for the last two months, a level that traditionally would be consistent with payroll gains of 100,000 to 200,000 a month. 
 The Institute for Supply Management's monthly report on the state of the manufacturing economy has led economists to believe that job growth should be more robust than the subsequent facts have shown.
 Indeed, the institute's report released yesterday was much stronger than expected. It indicated that the manufacturing sector had been growing for the last 10 months, while its employment index -- measuring companies that are hiring -- rose to its highest level since December 1987. 
 Economists received the data with some skepticism. Since July, the institute's index has suggested average employment growth about 175,000 jobs higher than has actually been the case, according to Joseph Abate, an economist at Lehman Brothers. In February it indicated payroll growth of 329,000. ''That was a whopper of an error,'' he said. Many analysts are spending considerable time trying to figure out why their forecasting models seem not to be working. Andrew Tilton, an economist at Goldman Sachs, argued that jobless claims were not as useful as they once were. While good at measuring the newly unemployed, they are bad at catching people who rejoin the work force and so do not detect the slow pace of hiring.
 Norbert J. Ore, the chairman of the Institute for Supply Management, added that the institute's readings might also appear to be overly bullish because the survey asks companies only whether they are hiring or firing, not how many. And hiring, it seems, remains very cautious. 
 Forecasters' caution might go away if the employment numbers today show the jump the economists have been hoping for. Then, said Mr. Shepherdson, ''newspapers will have to stop writing about the jobless recovery and find something else to write about.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Inexact Science''Lately, economists have not been very accurate in their forecasts of the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls.Graph tracks actual and forecast jobs since 2003.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (94%); JOB CREATION (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); STATISTICS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); IRAQ WAR (66%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Labor; Unemployment

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%) Labor Department (US)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



33 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Factory Data Help to Push Share Prices Broadly Higher

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Leading stock gauges rose for a third day in four yesterday after an index of manufacturing increased last month. The report from the Institute for Supply Management also showed that more factories added workers than at any time since 1987. 
 The increase, coupled with a drop in the number of Americans filing for jobless benefits, spurred some optimism about the unemployment report to be released today. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 15.63 points, or 0.15 percent, to close at 10,373.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 5.96 points, or 0.53 percent, to 1,132.17. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index increased 20.79 points, or 1.04 percent, closing at 2,015.01. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks rose 5.01 points, or 0.85 percent, to 595.32. 
 Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange surpassed those declining by almost 2 to 1. Volume of 1.57 billion shares was up slightly from Wednesday.
 The share prices of Pfizer, the American International Group and Verizon Communications rose after the companies were added to the Dow Jones industrial average.
 Pfizer, the world's largest drug maker, climbed 54 cents, to close at $35.59. A.I.G., the biggest insurer, rose $1.97, to $73.32. Verizon, the nation's largest regional telephone company, gained 36 cents, to $36.90.
 Eastman Kodak, AT&T and International Paper will be removed from the Dow index. Yesterday, Kodak fell $1.07, to $25.10; AT&T lost 27 cents, to $19.30; and International Paper slipped 8 cents, to $42.18.
 Oil and natural gas stocks declined, led by Schlumberger, the second-largest oil field services company, as the price of crude oil in New York dropped $1.49, or more than 4 percent, to $34.27. Schlumberger shed $1.95, to $61.90.
 The Noble Corporation, which drills for oil and gas in waters off five continents, lost $1.37, closing at $37.05. ConocoPhillips dropped $1.12, to $68.69.
 Nokia, Motorola and Nortel Networks gained after Ericsson, a leading maker of mobile phone networks, said a measure of first-quarter earnings had exceeded its expectations.
 The American depository receipts of Nokia, based in Finland, rose 42 cents, to $20.70. Motorola added 43 cents, to $18.03, and Nortel rose 18 cents, to $6.12. The American depository receipts of Ericsson, a Swedish-based company, jumped $2.11, to $29.87. 
 Treasury debt prices fell on the strong manufacturing index report. The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 12/32, to 100 31/32, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.88 percent from 3.84 percent. The 30-year bond fell 15/32, to 108 20/32. Its yield rose to 4.80 percent from 4.77 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a 13-day cash-management bill:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.965
Investment Rate: 0.983
High Rate: 0.960
Low Rate: 0.930
Median Rate: 0.955
Total applied for: $78,305,000
Accepted: $25,004,150
Noncompetitive: $0

The 13-day cash management bills mature April 15, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.30-year: 5.02%15-year: 4.34%Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly since December 2003.(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (89%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (89%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (83%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); BOND MARKETS (62%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (81%); NOBLE CORP (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); PFIZER INC (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (82%); NE (NYSE) (81%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (81%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



34 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: MTV in Deal On Royalties With Labels In Europe

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, April 1 

 BODY:
MTV Networks Europe capitulated to the threat of a boycott by European independent record labels, and agreed on Thursday to a new three-year deal that dropped a proposed 55 percent cut in royalties for playing rock videos.
 European trade groups that represent the labels said that they would look to the United States next, where they plan to help local independent producers organize to force MTV and other music broadcasters pay royalties for using their music. 
 Major record labels have global contracts that spell out the royalties they receive when MTV plays their videos anywhere in the world, but the independent labels generally have such contracts in their local area. MTV pays no royalties at all to independent labels in the United States. 
 MTV, part of Viacom, has been locked in a fierce battle with hundreds of European record producers over royalties for months. After a contract between MTV and the producers ended in late 2002, MTV stopped negotiating with Video Performance Ltd., a group that collects royalties for independent European labels, and began offering individual labels new, lower contracts. On March 24, the producers said they would boycott MTV's channels in Europe rather than agree to the new terms. European independent labels account for about one-fifth of the Continent's $12 billion music industry, and produce acts like Franz Ferdinand, MissTique, the White Stripes and Dizzee Rascal.
 Terms of Thursday's deal were not disclosed, but people close to the negotiations said that it was similar in size to the old contract, which was worth $3.5 million. Record producers currently earn just a small amount of their total income from video royalties, and said on Thursday that they went to battle over the principle of the issue -- and to protect their interests in the future.
 ''As time goes on, making money from sources other than selling CD's is going to become more and more important,'' said Peter Quicke, managing director of Ninja Tune, which records Blockhead of New York and Kid Koala of Canada. 
 European trade associations are in the process of helping independent labels in the United States start their own trade groups, said Alison Wenham, chairman and chief executive of the Association of Independent Music, a European trade group.
 ''It's time for the largest market in the world to engage at a level that is comparable with Europe,'' Ms. Wenham said. ''Without a strong independent sector, the industry would not be as good as it is, because they are the risk-taking entrepreneurs who invest in music for the passion of it first, then the economic value.'' 
 MTV said that paying royalties to independents in the United States is unlikely. ''There is no precedent for that in the United States, where it is a completely different business model'' from Europe, said Carole Robinson, executive vice president for communications at MTV Networks in New York. MTV enjoys good relationships with all the independent labels it deals with in the United States, she added. 
 Major players have been forced to cut jobs amid a global slump in music sales as consumers download more music from the Internet. Some independent producers argue that the major labels' problems, and the industry's, stem from the majors' arrogance.
 ''The indies tried to do business with Napster, while the majors tried to shut it down,'' said Guy Holmes, founder of Gut Recordings, who counts Right Said Fred, the singer of ''I'm Too Sexy,'' among his artists.
 Still, paying royalties to independents will have little impact on Viacom's bottom line, analysts noted. ''It matters on the fringe, but MTV is a lot more than music videos now,'' said Peter Mirsky, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); POP & ROCK (79%); RECORD REVENUES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); LITIGATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Music; Suits and Litigation; Boycotts; Royalties; Recordings (Video); Recordings (Audio)

COMPANY: MTV NETWORKS INC (59%); VIACOM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; Mtv Networks

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (59%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



35 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Wages of Bad Accounting: Bosses Got Rich While Companies Borrowed

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE stock market bubble might have been less severe. The wild swings in federal budget deficits might have been reduced. Companies would owe a lot less money. Less wealth would have been transferred from shareholders to managers, but then perhaps less paper wealth would have been created. Richard A. Grasso might still be running the New York Stock Exchange.
 All that might have happened if American politicians, a decade ago, had not forced the Financial Accounting Standards Board to back down from its proposal to force companies to record as a compensation expense the value of stock options given to employees. 
 ''You manage what you measure,'' as they say, and the fact that no one had to measure options values helped lead to an explosion in their issuance after 1994. Employees knew they could be valuable, and so did bosses. Most shareholders either did not care or accepted the argument that reporting the expenses would depress share prices and thus be bad for them.
 The options boom made many executives amazingly rich, and led to a lot of envy from those who were missing out. Did that help to reduce ethical standards in auditing firms, or among lawyers and investment bankers working on corporate deals? That cannot be proved.
 But the options wealth for bosses of traded companies provided an excuse for Mr. Grasso to collect extra bonuses at the exchange, to compensate him for not receiving options. Then he got pension benefits on those bonuses, which provided him with the bulk of the $139.5 million payout that led to his ouster.
 The companies that issued options worried about the one place all those options did show up in their financial statements: as dilution on the balance sheet. So, many companies borrowed money to repurchase shares.
 The government was another beneficiary. Executives paid ordinary income tax when they cashed in the bonuses, and that led to a surge in government tax receipts that was little understood at the time. The budget bean counters assumed that those taxes were offset by reduced corporate taxes, because companies got deductions for the option profits, and so did not affect the deficit. But a lot of the profits came on options from unprofitable companies.
 That helped to produce the Clinton budget surpluses, and the bursting of the bubble meant that most of the forecasted surpluses were going to vanish anyway, even before the Bush administration cut taxes. 
 Now the accounting standards board is trying again, and this time it will probably succeed, although there is no guarantee. Some companies are pushing a ''compromise'' that would deduct the expense -- at ridiculously low values -- of only those options given to top executives. There is no logical reason options given to one employee would be an expense while those given to another would not. But the hope is that politicians will be able to claim they are voting for little-guy recipients, not greedy corporate bosses.
 Most shareholders understand that option compensation is an expense just like any other. Over the anguished opposition of managements, they are voting this spring at annual meetings for the expensing of options. That should sway votes in Washington. 
 Some lessons are hard to learn, however. Some European banks are petrified over having to disclose how much money they are actually making, or losing, on their derivatives portfolios. They have tried, with some success in the media, to turn a fight over rules of the International Accounting Standards Board into an argument about Anglo-American cultural imperialism, rather than about good accounting. The European Commission may block the rules. 
 It has been said that Europe is 10 years behind America. That would, perhaps, be one way to prove it.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks option grants at big companies, as percent of outstanding shares from 1991 to 2003. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); ETHICS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); AUDITS (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); BONDS (74%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); TAX RELIEF (71%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); LAWYERS (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Bonuses; Wages and Salaries; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%) New York Stock Exchange

PERSON: Richard Grasso; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



36 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; Pg. 1; JOURNEYS

LENGTH: 1824 words

HEADLINE: Leave Fido Back Home? No Way!

BYLINE: By SARAH ROBERTSON

 BODY:
WHEN Barbara Corbato booked a trip to Ontario's wilderness region with an adventure travel company, she and her companion, Bella, spent a long weekend canoeing, hiking, swimming and lounging by the campfire. But Bella isn't her best friend or her daughter. She's her black Labrador retriever.
 ''Bella is a complete water fanatic,'' said Ms. Corbato, a violist in Grand Rapids, Mich. ''She swam pretty constantly. Going on a trip that was tailored to your animal was a lot of fun.''
 In just the latest twist on the billions spent on adventure travel, a growing number of pet-friendly travel outfitters are offering everything from winter hiking jaunts in the Catskill Mountains of New York to tubing trips down the Yampa River in Colorado. Dog Paddling Adventures, a Canadian company offering cross-country skiing, hiking and canoeing expeditions for pets and their owners, says its business has quadrupled since it opened in 2000. One outfitter even plans to offer a $4,000 dog hike from Aspen to Crested Butte, Colo., with a stay in a luxury inn and the return trip in a chartered plane. 
 ''There are a lot of people who would travel with their dogs like they would their kids or friends,'' said Susan Sims, editor of Fido Friendly, a travel magazine for pet owners. ''They don't think anything of it.'' 
 Why should they, given Americans' ever-growing obsession with their pets, which has people shelling out an annual $32.4 billion on their companion animals last year, for everything from designer cat beds to special doggy massages? And while spending on pet adventure travel is still a small segment of the adventure market, a growing number of small outfitters are getting into the business. Many of them, like Donna Carsten, the founder of Bailey Knows Travel, in Sherman Oaks, Calif., started offering pet trips because they were frustrated by not being able to take their dogs along. ''I don't want a vacation from my dog,'' Ms. Carsten said. ''I wanted to offer trips where the animals are part of the experience.''
 And for every dog lover organizing skijoring trips in Ontario (a kind of dog-sledding without the sled -- the dogs pull their owners on cross-country skis) or hiking expeditions to Moab, Utah, there seems to be another entrepreneur ready to sell pet-ready hiking or adventure gear. Ruff Wear, a Bend, Ore., dog-gear company, says sales of its items, like canine backpacks and doggy hiking ''boots'' -- socklike slip-ons that help protect paws on the trail -- have grown 30 percent over the last two years. Among the popular treats at Zuke's, a Durango, Colo., pet food company, are PowerBones for dog hikers. Packed with carbohydrates and ''quality fats'' for endurance, they are the dog equivalent of Balance Bars. Then there are the dog sleeping bags and $75 backcountry ''pup tents'' from UhlrGear of Dublin, Ohio. ''The customers are ecstatic,'' said Marc Ladyga, an owner of UhlrGear. ''They love them.''
 Or at least their owners do. Lori Miller-Levine took her 3-year-old golden retriever, Beauregard, on a camping and float trip last July organized by Colorado Canines. Beauregard attended with his own life vest, booties, portable water dish and fleece-lined Therm-a-Rest mattress for extra-cushy sleeping in the tent. ''You name it, he's got it,'' said Ms. Miller-Levine, a 43-year-old jewelry designer from Boulder, Colo.
OF course, people have been taking their pets along on vacation for years. But in many cases, that meant staying in the limited number of economy hotels willing to let animals bunk with their owners. And pets were rarely invited along on active vacations. Traditional outdoor-adventure travel outfits rarely allow pets to join in and some wilderness areas forbid dogs because of endangered species or historical structures in the area. In other places, dogs are only allowed if they are kept on a short leash.
 But with people increasingly thinking of pets as their family members, a growing segment of the travel industry has become willing to open its doors to four-legged companions. In its 2004 ''Traveling With Your Pet'' guide, AAA lists more than 12,000 lodgings that accept pets, up 8 percent from last year -- double the increase from the year before. 
 And at a time when animal obesity rates are approaching human ones -- American veterinarians say over half the pets they see are overweight, according to a study conducted last fall by the Purina Pet Institute -- experts say a weekend in the woods may be just the thing for some out-of-shape pooches. Still, Dr. Peggy Rucker, a veterinarian and spokeswoman for the American Animal Hospital Association, suggests owners take their pets for a check-up before their first trip and put them on a training regime to get in shape. Owners should also think carefully about their dogs' physiology and personality before signing up. ''You can't envision someone taking their Chihuahua and playing out in the snow for very long,'' Dr. Rucker said. ''You'll have a Chihuahua Popsicle.''
 It's hard to know, of course, whether dogs really want to take up backpacking or backcountry canoeing. After all, ''not all are hunters and are looking for miles of open space,'' said Bob Vetere, managing director of the American Pet Products Manufacturers Association. For many breeds, he added, ''if you keep them on the front yard and roll a tennis ball to them, they'll be just as happy.''
 Indeed, in some cases, the canine participants' ideas of a good adventure hasn't quite matched up with the weekend plan. When Cindy Garbacz took Bailey, her Labrador, on a Dog Paddling Adventure canoe trip, she envisioned a companionable ride with her dog through Canadian lakes. But the dog jumped overboard twice. ''Bailey wasn't too thrilled about the boat experience,'' said Ms. Garbacz, a computer consultant in Buffalo. ''She thought she could get there faster in the water.'' (A bigger problem: Ms. Garbacz, a first-time canoeist, found the experience ''a lot of work.'') 
 Adventure trips among humans don't always go that smoothly, of course. But people can usually just ignore each other at cocktail hour if they don't get along. With animals, managing personality issues can be tougher. Most pet travel companies reserve the right to dismiss unruly participants, and will send animals home for being overly aggressive. Others conduct an intense screening process, sending out detailed questionnaires about the pets before they admit them. Camp Dogwood, a Chicago outfit that runs weekend trips to the Illinois countryside, requires that dogs with ''space issues'' wear orange bandanas. 
 But in many cases, the real issues aren't between animals, but between owners -- especially when a spouse or partner isn't keen on the idea of adventuring with Rover.
 Jeannie Hosey, of Grand Rapids, Mich., thought a weekend spent canoeing with her 4 1/2-year-old Labrador, Scout, sounded like a great idea. But her husband, Tony Travis, viewed camping with the dog as too much trouble. Her solution: She and the dog went away to the Canadian wilderness for the weekend, leaving Mr. Travis at home. ''I think the whole idea is funny,'' Ms. Hosey said. ''He does, too.''

RUFFING IT
Where a Dog Can Go to Be a Dog
A GROWING number of adventure-travel outfitters are offering trips for people and their pets. Here, some weekend adventures planned for this spring and summer -- from hiking to canoeing: 

CALIFORNIA
Bailey Knows Travel, Sherman Oaks
www.baileyknowstravel.com
(800) 880-5070

WHEN -- Aug. 26-29.
COST -- $1,350 to $2,150.
WHAT -- Owners and dogs spend three days exploring Santa Barbara. Activities include botanical garden walks and an evening beach barbecue. Owners and their dogs can also ride on quadricycles (pedal-powered buggies, some with baskets for small dogs), get in-room massages and attend sessions with a pet psychic and a nutritionist. Participants stay at Fess Parker's DoubleTree Resort, and private pet sitting is available at no extra charge, should owners want some time on their own.

COLORADO
Colorado Canines Adventure Trips, Boulder
www.coloradocanines.com
(303) 449-5069

WHEN -- Aug. 28-29.
COST -- About $350.
WHAT -- Dogs and owners do two days of gentle river rafting down Brown's Canyon, an hour's drive from Denver. Guests can spend free time hiking, and vegetarian meals are included. The outfit is also offering two nights of camping in Steamboat, Colo., and a weekend trip houseboating on Lake Powell in Utah, both in September.

Mountain Dogs, Aspen
www.aspenmtndogs.com
(970) 925-4343

WHEN -- From July through late September.
COST -- $4,000 per couple and dog.
WHAT -- Hike with your dog from Aspen to Crested Butte in luxury. A stretched Ford Excursion S.U.V. takes hikers to the trailhead, where they are met by a guide and a personal trainer who is also a veterinary technician. A three-course lunch is served on white linen. After completing the nine-mile hike, trekkers are greeted with Champagne and taken to the Claim Jumper, a bed-and-breakfast, in Crested Butte. Guests fly back to Aspen in a chartered plane and finish the weekend with lunch at the St. Regis, where pets get a specially prepared meal, too.

ILLINOIS
Camp Dogwood, Ingleside
www.campdogwood.com
(312) 458-9549

WHEN -- May 28-31
COST -- $445 to $725.
WHAT -- More like doggy overnight camp, with dogs and their owners bunking in rustic cabins, a lodge or in their own tents. Usually draws more than 100 dogs and their owners for weekends at this camp, 48 miles northwest of Chicago. Hiking and canoeing are offered as are more formal activities like trick-training classes, agility drills and dog massage lessons. During the summer session, the camp will offer canine water-sports, teaching dogs to dive off docks and retrieve.

NEW YORK
Blue Sky Dogs, New York
www.blueskydogsny.com
(212) 531-3647

WHEN -- July 23-25.
COST -- $385 to $495, based on double occupancy.
WHAT -- Owners and dogs stay at a pet-friendly bed-and-breakfast in Fleischmanns, N.Y., about a two-hour drive from Manhattan (dog-friendly transportation to the inn can be arranged). Happy hour with dog treats and wine and cheese starts off the weekend on Friday night. On Saturday, dogs and owners canoe and have an outdoor barbecue with live music in the evening. The trip ends with a short hike on Sunday after breakfast with the dogs.

CANADA
Dog Paddling Adventures, Toronto
www.dogpaddlingadventures.com
(905) 477-2493

WHEN -- Every weekend from July 2 to Sept. 4.
COST -- $350 in Canadian currency (about $270 in United States currency) for a three-day weekend.
WHAT -- Three-day canoeing trips start on Friday morning, departing from various locations including Algonquin and Massasauga Provincial Parks, both about a two-and-a-half-hour drive from Toronto. The company provides gear for both owners and their dogs -- life jackets required for both -- basic paddling lessons, campfire dinners and a Sunday brunch. Besides canoeing, owners and their dogs can do day hikes, swim and get private canoeing instruction.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HEEL, NOW RELAX -- Scout, left, with four other dogs on his Ontario trip. Left, a group of dogs with their humans on a canoe trip to Algonquin Provincial Park in Canada. Far left, one of the Ontario winter trips includes skijoring, where dogs pull their owners. (Photo by Dog Paddling Adventures, above and left)
(Photo by Jeannie Hosey)
SAFETY FIRST -- Most trips provide equipment, meals and instruction. (Photo by Dog Paddling Adventures)(pg. F2)
 TRAVELS WITH SCOUT -- Jeannie Hosey in Massasauga park in Ontario. A growing number of pet-friendly travel outfitters offer everything from hiking to skijoring. (Photo by Barbara Corbato)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIKING (91%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); PETS (90%); DOGS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); SKIING (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CATS (75%); MOUNTAINS (72%); PET FOODS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%) Travel and Vacations; Dogs

PERSON: Sarah Robertson

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (90%); DURANGO, CO, USA (79%); BEND, OR, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



37 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 6; HAVENS

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Weekender Millerton, N.Y.

BYLINE: By KATHRYN MATTHEWS

 BODY:
AT first glance, Millerton looks less than chic, even slightly shabby. It's so low-key that some famous residents of the more picturesque Connecticut villages a few miles to the East can drop by without causing a stir. Meryl Streep will occasionally come to town for a salon haircut, and Michael J. Fox can browse a bookstore undisturbed. But longtime weekenders and residents recognize that two significant new arrivals in town -- the tony Salem Saddlery and the high-end Connecticut-based Elyse Harney Real Estate agency -- are signs of an upscale direction.
 ''On some Saturdays,'' said Allan Ripp, a Manhattan public relations specialist who has been a Millerton weekender since 1989, ''Main Street can now feel like Millbrook'' -- the better-known Hudson Valley village where luxury S.U.V.'s long ago crowded out the pickup trucks.
 A former rail junction for the surrounding region and the town of North East, of which it is a part, Millerton has a dairy farming past and blue-collar roots. Rail access has long made the northeast corner of Dutchess County attractive to weekenders seeking a rural respite amid its stunning hills and valleys. One of them, a millionaire horse breeder named Thomas Hidden, built Hiddenhurst, a gleaming white Colonial Revival mansion on bucolic Sheffield Road, in 1903. 
 The local economy faltered after the railroad closed, and many farms shut down in the 1970's and 80's. But over the last two decades, a new Millerton (the residents use the name to include both the village and the town of North East) has emerged. At the McEnroe Organic Farm Market on Route 22, many customers are ''locals who were originally weekenders from the city,'' according to the proprietor, Ray McEnroe, a native who with Douglas Durst, the real estate developer, also owns a 500-acre organic farm that is certified by the Northeast Organic Farming Association.
 The new contingent of Millerton second-home owners include young telecommuting professionals, gentleman farmers, financiers, artists, antiques dealers, publishers and retirees from Long Island and Westchester County.
 In the last three years, Millerton shifted into a higher gear as well-heeled weekenders discovered it and Metro-North extended train service to Wassaic, just 10 miles south. For many it is an attractive alternative to nearby but pricier Connecticut.

The Scene
 Even on a frigid Sunday afternoon a few weeks ago, Millerton hummed with activity. Teenagers packed Taro's pizzeria; cellphone-toting patrons lingered at Irving Farm, a cousin coffeehouse to 71 Irving Place in the Gramercy Park neighborhood of Manhattan; parents and children lined up at Pasta at Large, a fine-foods takeout spot. A steady flow of moviegoers made parking hard to find.
 They were headed to the Moviehouse on Main Street, which has been an anchor, along with nearby Oblong Books & Music, of downtown Millerton's commercial renaissance. In 1978 Carol and Robert Sadlon, who were then weekenders, created the Moviehouse, transforming the 1904 Grange Hall (where previous operators had briefly featured pornographic movies) into a three-screen theater that specializes in independent and foreign films, with an art gallery and a cafe. The audiences sometimes include well-known actors, producers, directors -- even film critics like Gene Shalit and Joel Siegel. ''Architecturally, Millerton appealed to us as a wonderful turn-of-the-century village,'' Ms. Sadlon said. The Sadlons renovated several other village buildings in the 1980's, including Simmons' Way, a country inn.
 In contrast to the bustle of the village, the surrounding town of North East, with magnificent vistas of the Taconic Range and the Catskills, offers serene relief.
 Zoning regulations in North East -- usually, a five-acre-lot minimum in an agricultural zone -- have helped preserve the countryside. So has the Dutchess Land Conservancy, which since 1985 has obtained 29 conservation easements, mostly from weekenders, protecting 2,400 acres in North East, said its executive director, Rebecca Thornton.

Pros
 Weekenders, even famous ones, can be assured of their privacy. ''Celebrities want to blend in and lead a somewhat normal life on weekends, and we respect that,'' Ms. Sadlon said.
 With a bank, stores that include a hardware store and a pharmacy, hair salons and a commercial strip on its eastern outskirts, Millerton also offers one-stop shopping. In addition to a Grand Union supermarket just outside the village, the Silamar Farm stand on Route 22, open May through December, has seasonal produce; further south, the McEnroe market has a wide selection of certified organic meats, vegetables, dairy products and specialty foods from green tea to Bhutanese red rice. And the Salem Saddlery opened a shop on Main Street last summer, selling gear for equestrians and people who just plain love horses.
 The village is family friendly. ''There have always been a lot of kids here,'' said Mr. Ripp, a father of two teenagers and a 5-year-old.
 The Harlem Valley Rail Trail, a 10-foot-wide, 8-mile-long paved path on which no cars are allowed, is used by cyclists, skaters and walkers. ''It's a great place to teach kids how to ride a bike or Rollerblade,'' said Dave Schufelt, executive director of the Harlem Valley Rail Trail Association.
 Eddie Collins Memorial Park, named for the Hall of Fame ballplayer who was a native of Millerton, is a site for fireworks and fairs and has a pool and a skateboard and skating area. Two miles north of Millerton, Taconic State Park offers swimming and boating at Rudd Pond, as well as hiking and picnicking. It's free most of the year, with a $7 day charge in summer. Less than a half-hour drive away in the Berkshires, Catamount and Butternut Basin draw downhill skiers and snowboarders while Bash Bish Falls attracts hikers and anglers.

Cons
 Unlike Millbrook, or Lakeville and Salisbury just over the border in Connecticut, Millerton is not a manicured, postcard-perfect town; it has a grittier edge, evidenced by modest homes crowded side-by-side along some village side streets. The end of Main Street feeds into a short strip-mall stretch of autobody shops, gas stations and convenience stores -- even a McDonald's.
 The village has several casual restaurants but few places for fine dining.
 Though full-timers and weekenders report a peaceful coexistence, a shortage of available housing has caused some friction. ''The biggest gripe we hear around here is that kids who grew up in Millerton can't afford to live here now,'' Mr. McEnroe said.
 With a growing second-home community, finding workers for services like landscaping can be a challenge.

Real Estate
 Prices have risen, reflecting the area's growing desirability. The median house price rose to $200,000 in 2003 from $150,000 in 2002. ''Now, we're looking at a market where $300,000 for a house is becoming fairly common,'' said Brad Rebillard, owner and president of Dutchess Country Realty.
 Listings at Dutchess Country this week included a 1,964-square-foot four-bedroom, three-bathroom 1942 Cape Cod-style house on 3.7 acres, with views of the Berkshires, for $270,000; and a 3,292-square-foot, four-bedroom, three-bathroom Cape Cod-colonial hybrid on 1.2 acres for $349,000.
 Despite a brutal winter, business has been brisk at Elyse Harney Real Estate. One recent listing reflected the times: a custom-built house on 10 acres was priced at more than $1 million. In 2001, the asking price would have been $800,000. ''Seeing new homes jump into the $1 million-plus range is a recent phenomenon,'' Elyse Harney said. 
 This week the agency was listing a 1,650-square-foot, three-bedroom raised ranch-style house with a full bathroom and two half bathrooms on 1.8 acres for $279,000; a 1780 2,833-square-foot, four-bedroom, two-bathroom eyebrow Colonial on five acres with stone walls and a barn for $429,000; a 2,268-square-foot, three-bedroom log house built in 1986 on 23 acres with views of a small pond for $599,000; and a contemporary Georgian colonial-style manor house on 21 acres, with a swimming pool, tennis court, basketball court and soccer field for $1.5 million.

LAY OF THE LAND
Putting Aside Its Blue Collar

POPULATION -- Village of Millerton: 925; town of North East: 3,002.
SIZE -- Millerton, 1.02 square miles; North East, 43.92 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE -- $200,000.
RECENT SALES -- A 1,080-square-foot, one-bedroom, two-bathroom renovated 1910 cottage with a wraparound deck and barn on 5.7 acres, which was offered for $269,000 and on the market for 156 days, sold for $265,000. A 1,648-square-foot, three-bedroom, two-bathroom, brick ranch-style home on 0.4 acres sold for $210,000, the asking price, after 57 days on the market. A renovated 2,676-square-foot, four-bedroom, two-bathroom 1890 colonial on 0.7 acres in Millerton village, originally listed at $269,000, sold for $253,000 after 71 days on the market. A 5,500-square-foot, four-bedroom, three-bathroom contemporary, built in 2001, on 17.7 acres with a pool, ornamental gardens and valley and mountain views, originally offered at $1.8 million, sold after 92 days for $1.75 million.
DISTANCE FROM NEW YORK -- 98 miles.
TRAVEL TIME -- By car, two hours in light traffic. By rail, an hour and a half on the Metro-North Harlem Line from Grand Central Terminal to Wassaic, a 10-minute drive to Millerton.
GETTING THERE -- Take the Taconic State Parkway north to the Route 199-Pine Plains exit. Go east on Route 199 about 20 miles, to its end. Turn left onto Route 22-44 North. At the first stoplight, turn right onto Main Street, Route 44, which takes you into the village.
WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- Simmons' Way Village Inn (53 Main Street, 518-789-6235) is in an 1854 Victorian house and has a restaurant. The inn has nine antiques-furnished rooms. Winter rates are $100 to $150, with breakfast included. After May 1, rates are $130 to $200.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Weekender column last Friday about Millerton, N.Y., misstated the travel time by train from Manhattan to Wassaic, N.Y., the closest Metro-North station. It is roughly two hours, not one and a half hours.

GRAPHIC: Photos: VILLAGE AND COUNTRY -- A customer scans a real estate brochure at an agency on Main Street in Millerton. The area is bustling, yet still offers rural serenity. (Photographs by Martis Alex for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); TELECOMMUTING (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); DAIRY FARMING (67%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (67%); ADOLESCENTS (66%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Geographic Profiles; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Kathryn Matthews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Millerton (Ny); New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



38 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: South Korea: Exports Rise

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
South Korean exports rose more than a third for a second month in March, reaching a record as consumer spending picked up in its three biggest overseas markets -- China, Japan and the United States. Shipments rose 40 percent from a year earlier to $21.5 billion after climbing 45 percent in February, the commerce ministry said. Exports to China rose 54 percent in the first 20 days of March; sales to the United States increased 41 percent; and shipments to Japan climbed 52 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SHIPMENTS (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (86%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%) South Korea; China; Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



39 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25; FILM IN REVIEW

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: 'The Gatekeeper'

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:

Directed by John Carlos Frey
R, 103 minutes
 One from the heart for writer-director-star John Carlos Frey, ''The Gatekeeper'' is an earnest, idealistic video-to-film feature about a half-Mexican, half-Anglo United States Border Patrol officer (Mr. Frey) whose angry contempt for his Mexican heritage turns to respect when he impersonates a Mexican migrant worker who tries to sneak into California. Though the film is far from polished, the force of its significance to Mr. Frey, as well as the urgency of its political message, give it some genuine impact. The picture opens today at the Village East. 
 Adam Fields, Mr. Frey's character, is a true believer in turning the tide against what he sees as nothing less than an invasion from the south, threatening America's values and well-being. Able to pass for an Anglo (he is the illegitimate son of a Mexican prostitute and an unknown client), Adam has acquired a blond, blue-eyed girlfriend whose right-wing father is sympathetic to his views on immigration. Adam goes beyond his duties with the Border Patrol to join a militant right-wing group, the National Patrol, whose members ambush hapless Mexicans trying to enter the United States near the Tijuana-San Diego checkpoint.
 As part of a bizarre plan to lead a group of would-be immigrants into a trap set by the extremist group, Adam grows a scraggy mustache, puts on a tattered sports shirt and joins a group of desperate men -- plus one desperate woman (Michelle Agnew) and her young son -- to be led by a Mexican coyote to the economic wonderland of America. 
 What they find instead is death or enslavement. When the naive extremists run into the professional smugglers, they are massacred, and the human cargo is transported to an abandoned farm in the middle of the Southwestern nowhere to work the fields and help the evil American overseer (Joel Brooks) manufacture methamphetamines. The film becomes oddly stagnant at this point, content to catalog the abuses suffered by its characters (which are many and convincing) rather than to develop their personalities and their mounting sense of rage. 
 Still, the passivity of Mr. Frey's characters seems refreshingly real next to the outsize heroics that would doubtlessly inform a Hollywood version of the same story. Adam is shot in the leg early on and spends much of the film hobbling on improvised crutches -- a hulking American metaphorically reduced to the vulnerable, powerless state of an illegal immigrant.
 Mr. Frey is no artist with his camera, but his haphazard, cramped compositions often serve to underline his themes of claustrophobia and paralysis. In a good cast, only Ms. Agnew, as the female prisoner, fails to convince: with her small, perfect features, she looks as delicate as a porcelain Madonna, and just as unlikely to survive rough handling.
 ''The Gatekeeper'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) because of graphic violence and a rape scene. DAVE KEHR


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); WRITERS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); FARM LABOR (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); FILM (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); SMUGGLING (72%); MIGRANT WORKERS (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (62%); METHAMPHETAMINE (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (84%)

PERSON: Dave Kehr; John Frey

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



40 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25; FILM IN REVIEW

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: 'Marathon'

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:

Directed by Amir Naderi
Not rated, 74 minutes
 Along with his friend and colleague Abbas Kiarostami, Amir Naderi was one of the principal architects of the new Iranian cinema of the 1970's. After making 11 features in Iran, including his most widely seen film, ''The Runner'' (1985), Mr. Naderi moved to New York, where he has continued to make films that combine an almost overwhelmingly physical sense of place with abstract and inventive formal concerns. ''Marathon,'' Mr. Naderi's latest film, which opens today in New York, completes the New York City trilogy he began with ''Manhattan by Numbers'' in 1993 and continued with ''A, B, C . . . Manhattan'' in 1997.
 Mr. Naderi has employed both Manhattan's numerical and alphabetical systems of street names as basis for fictions. (In ''Manhattan by Numbers,'' an unemployed journalist works his way from Washington Heights to the East Village, descending digit by digit.) In ''Marathon'' he turns to another of New York's organizing systems, the subway. The protagonist of this short feature, shot in black-and-white on both film and video, is Gretchen (Sara Paul), a young woman with a curious obsession: once a year she goes on a personal marathon in which she tries to complete as many crossword puzzles as possible in 24 hours while riding the trains.
 Gretchen relies on the screech and rumble of the subway to find her concentration, and Mr. Naderi relays these sounds with a sharpness and an intensity that approach the real thing. By performing this strange, private ritual (a tradition she has inherited from her mother) in the most public and chaotic of places, Gretchen seems to be waging her own private war against the meaningless din of urban existence. As absurd as her gesture may be, it is one way of imposing order on arbitrariness.
 The beauty of Mr. Naderi's filmmaking lies in his combination of acute social observation (with the subway population providing its habitual cross section of New York classes and cultures) and pure, almost mathematical formalism. He is as fascinated by the cool geometry of the subway system (and its similarity to the neat, empty boxes Gretchen fills with words) as he is by its messy vitality. Though we never discover the personal motivations behind Gretchen's marathon (there are some hints of family trauma), surely they can't be much different from Mr. Naderi's own in filming it: to make sense out of senselessness, to pull art from the void. DAVE KEHR


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (72%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Dave Kehr; Amir Naderi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



41 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Senate, Torn by Minimum Wage, Shelves Major Welfare Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1 

 BODY:
The Senate set aside a sweeping bill to reauthorize the nation's main welfare program on Thursday after Republicans failed to muster the 60-vote majority needed to limit debate on the legislation.
 The Senate Democratic leader, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, acknowledged that the bill had ''overwhelming bipartisan'' support. But he and other Democrats said they opposed ending debate because they had been denied a separate vote on a proposed amendment to increase the minimum wage.
 Republicans complained that the Democrats had blocked a vote on the underlying welfare bill, even after the Senate agreed this week to add $6 billion to provide child care to low-income families. 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, the chairman of the Finance Committee, said, ''We are stymied.''
 It was the second time in two weeks that Republican leaders suffered a serious setback in the Senate, where they hold 51 of the 100 seats. Last week the majority leader, Senator Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, pulled a corporate tax bill from the floor to avoid a vote on a Democratic amendment intended to preserve premium overtime pay for several million white-collar workers. The tax bill had bipartisan support.
 The vote to limit debate on the welfare bill was 51 to 47. Those who wanted to end debate, all Republicans, fell nine votes short of the number needed to prevail. No senators crossed party lines.
 Senate leaders of both parties said that the welfare bill was not necessarily dead and that they would seek an agreement to allow votes on a specified number of Democratic amendments and on final passage of the bill itself.
 But Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he saw little chance for such an agreement in an election year. ''This is now a nonfunctioning institution,'' he said of the Senate, where he has served more than 41 years.
 Soon after the roll call ended, Mr. Kennedy said: ''The White House and the Republican leadership refuse to permit the Senate to vote on basic issues like the minimum wage, overtime pay and unemployment insurance. But we are strongly committed to bringing those issues back time and time and time again.''
 Republicans said they had offered votes on those issues, but in return, they said, they wanted to set a time for final votes on the welfare and tax bills.
 The minimum wage has been $5.15 an hour since 1997. Democrats wanted to increase it to $7 over two years. A person who works 40 hours a week for 52 weeks a year would then make $14,560, rather than the current $10,712. Under federal guidelines, a family of three is considered poor if its annual income is less than $15,670.
 Some Democrats saw the vote on Thursday as a victory, since they showed solidarity in their effort to increase the minimum wage.
 But Mr. Grassley said: ''Democrats ought to be ashamed of themselves for making political hay on the backs of low-income people. In order to score political points, they are leaving children and their working single moms out in the cold. If Democrats kill welfare reform, they will also be killing additional money for child care.''
 The welfare bill would reauthorize the 1996 welfare law for five years, set stricter work requirements for people receiving cash assistance and provide hundreds of millions of dollars for programs promoting ''healthy marriage.'' In February 2003, the House approved its version of the legislation, which is closer to President Bush's blueprint.
 The 1996 law, widely seen as a turning point in social welfare policy, was written mainly by Republicans, but President Bill Clinton supported many of its goals. The law eliminated the individual entitlement to cash assistance and gave each state a lump sum of money, with vast discretion over how to use it. Major provisions expired in September 2002, but Congress has passed six short-term extensions. The most recent one runs through June.
 Ronald T. Haskins, a Republican who has worked on Capitol Hill and at the White House under Mr. Bush, said, ''If the welfare law is not reauthorized this year, there will be more pressure to cut spending on the program next year.'' The main welfare program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, has been providing the same amount, $16.5 billion a year, since 1996, even though the number of people receiving cash assistance has dropped 60 percent, to 4.9 million.
 Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, said the higher minimum wage was a logical corollary of the welfare bill. ''We want to get people off welfare,'' Mrs. Boxer said. ''That's the point of the underlying bill. Lets get them into work that pays. I hear all about compassionate conservatism. Fine. Show it to me. Where is it?''
 Mrs. Boxer and Mr. Kennedy voted against the welfare legislation in 1996. Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, recalled the words of Mr. Kennedy, who described the bill then as ''a direct assault on children.''
 Mr. Santorum said Mr. Kennedy had been wrong. ''The assault was on poverty, not on children,'' he said Thursday. ''The assault that Senator Kennedy foretold never happened. Welfare reform was not cruel. It was a step in the right direction.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); OVERTIME (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%) Welfare (US); Law and Legislation; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (90%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%) Tom (Sen) Daschle; Barbara (Sen) Boxer; Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



42 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 289 words

PERSON: Thomas F. Willers

HEADLINE: Thomas F. Willers, 84, Executive Of Paper and Chemical Concerns

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Thomas F. Willers, a former top executive of Hooker Chemical and Occidental Petroleum and of Champion International, the paper company, died on March 24 at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 84. 
 The cause was respiratory failure, the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home announced.
 Mr. Willers, a native of Niagara Falls, N.Y., spent most of his career at Hooker. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1941 in economics and business administration and joined the company that year, advancing in financial positions until being named president in 1963.
 Hooker Chemical was bought by Occidental in 1968 and Mr. Willers became president of the parent company. He rose to vice chairman in 1970 and was seen as a possible heir to Occidental's founder and chairman, Armand Hammer. But he quit a year later, saying he was disenchanted by how Occidental was run. 
 In 1972, U.S. Plywood-Champion Papers brought him in to be president and a possible successor to its chairman, Karl R. Bendetsen.
 The company became Champion International, and Mr. Willers took over as chairman and chief executive. Mr. Willers resigned in 1974, citing policy disagreements with the board. (Champion International was bought by International Paper in 2000.)
 Later in the 70's, Mr. Willers worked with Universe Tankships and National Bulk Carriers in the Amazon basin. Among the projects he was associated with was the construction of a pulp mill built in Japan and towed to Brazil.
 Mr. Willers is survived by his wife of 65 years, Jean Campbell Willers; a daughter, Diana W. Merriam, of Palm Desert, Calif.; three sons, Thomas C., of Carpentersville, Ill., Mark C., of Los Angeles, and Jock R., of Lakeland, Fla.; 11 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); MARINE TANKERS (73%); PULP MILLS (50%); PULP INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (90%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%)

TICKER: OXY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (90%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (58%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



43 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Reed to Stay Another Year As Big Board Chairman
John S. Reed, the interim chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, has agreed to stay on for another year, through April 2005.
 His decision underscores the extent to which the unresolved matter of Richard A. Grasso's controversial pay package continues to tie Mr. Reed to the exchange, despite his intent to move on. [Page C3.]

Allstate Suit Allowed to Proceed
A federal judge has rejected a request by Allstate Insurance to dismiss a lawsuit by more than 6,000 agents. His action cleared the way for a trial on the company's attempt to convert the agents to independent contractors. [C6.]

Estimates of Job Creation vs. Facts
When the latest monthly report on jobs comes out this morning, economists will be closely watching whether the numbers that they were forecasting are as embarrassingly off target as they have been in recent months. [C3.]

The Institute for Supply Management's factory index rose unexpectedly last month as production increased and more factories added workers. [C3.]

Prime-Time Criticism of Bush
Hollywood's more liberal producers and writers are increasingly expressing their displeasure with President Bush through their scripts. In recent weeks, characters in prime time have progressed beyond the typical knocks against politicians to calling out the president directly or questioning his policies. [A1.]

Report Details Opposition to Tests
A House committee report describes how the Bush administration worked with the chemical industry to undermine a European plan that would require all manufacturers to test industrial chemicals for their effect on public health before they were sold in Europe. [C2.]

Hearing in Europe on Oracle Bid
European antitrust regulators concluded a two-day session on Oracle's proposed unsolicited takeover of PeopleSoft , hearing arguments from customers, competitors and from PeopleSoft. The European Commission has until May 11 to make a final ruling. European regulators are concerned that a combination of Oracle and PeopleSoft would dominate the market for large corporate computer systems, like customer relationship management and financial management software used by multinational companies. [C4.]

U.S. Issues Sanctions on Iran Deals
The Bush administration is imposing more than two dozen sanctions on 13 foreign companies and individuals in seven different countries that it says have sold equipment or expertise Iran can use in its nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons programs. [A3.]

Gateway to Close Its Retail Stores
Gateway, the maker of personal computers, said it would close its 188 retail stores and lay off 2,500 store employees next week. [C6.]

No Verdict Yet in Tyco Trial
Jurors in the trial of two former Tyco International executives ended an 11th day of deliberations without reaching verdicts. [C3.]

School of Real-Life Advertising
Twelve students began classes as part of a 13-month program at Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore., in which they will work on real assignments for actual clients. Advertising. [C4.]

Confidence Spreads in Japan
Executives at Japan's biggest manufacturers are more optimistic about business than at any time in nearly seven years, and the mood is spreading among smaller companies, a survey showed. [World Business, Section W.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,373.33 up 15.63Nasdaq composite -- 2,015.01 up 20.7910-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.88% up 0.04The euro -- $1.2365 up 0.0060The dollar -- 103.71 yen down 0.64Graph: ''TODAY'' shows unemployment figures from September 2003 to February 2004.UnemploymentMarch figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.6%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Oracle shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); VERDICTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (88%); CHEMICALS (87%); CHEMICALS MFG (87%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); RETAILERS (86%); TAKEOVERS (78%); JURY TRIALS (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); POLITICS (71%); JUDGES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CHEMICALS TRADE (69%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (67%); WRITERS (66%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); ORACLE CORP (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); ALLSTATE CORP (57%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (51%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (67%); ALL (NYSE) (57%); TYC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (67%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (51%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



44 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Bush Puts Penalties on Nuclear Suppliers

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER

 BODY:
The Bush administration is imposing sanctions on 13 foreign companies and individuals in seven countries that it says have sold equipment or expertise that Iran could use in nuclear, chemical and biological weapons programs, according to administration and congressional officials.
 The sanctions will prohibit the companies and individuals from exporting goods to or receiving contracts or assistance from the United States and will prevent American companies from trading with them for two years. Officials said the sanctions were being imposed under the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000, which prevents sales of goods and technology that Iran could use to acquire long-range missiles and unconventional weapons.
 Both the House and Senate foreign relations committees on Thursday received from the administration copies of a classified 30-page report that describes such trade and names the entities being penalized, Congressional officials confirmed. 
 One official called the list the largest and most varied group of entities to be hit by such sanctions, saying that it demonstrated the Bush administration's determination to use economic pressure on companies and individuals who sell goods and skills that Iran and other states hostile to the United States can use to acquire long-range missiles or unconventional weapons.
 ''This is about branding companies and people who make such sales as proliferators,'' said one official who has seen the list and followed the administration's use of sanctions. 
 The 13 entities include five Chinese companies as well companies in Russia, Macedonia, Belarus, Taiwan, North Korea and the United Arab Emirates. At least five have already been given sanctions at least once by the administration. 
 The number of companies receiving sanctions has grown under President Bush. In testimony on Tuesday before the House International Relations Committee in Washington, Under Secretary of State John R. Bolton said that the administration had imposed sanctions to punish suspected efforts to acquire illicit weapons 22 times in 2002 and 32 times in 2003, compared with the Clinton administration's average of eight times a year.
 ''This administration is very serious about using sanctions as a nonproliferation tool,'' Mr. Bolton said.
 He said Iran had a ''massive deception and denial campaign'' aimed at preventing international inspectors from uncovering that country's ''robust'' biological, chemical and nuclear weapons programs.
 ''It is clear that Iran draws from many of the same networks that supplied Libya with nuclear technology, components and materials, including the Abdul Qadeer Khan black market network,'' he said, referring to the network run by the father of Pakistan's nuclear weapons program. Mr. Bolton called destroying the network through sanctions and other steps ''a priority objective of the United States.'' 
 Mr. Bolton also shed new light on the administration's view of what President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan knew about Dr. Khan's illicit nuclear sales network before his confession and about the status of Pakistan and American efforts to stop such sales. 
 Questioned by committee Democrats about whether there was evidence that General Musharraf was complicit in nuclear sales by Dr. Khan's network to Iran, Libya and North Korea, Mr. Bolton said that while General Musharraf might have been aware of such sales, he might have been politically unable to stop them because Dr. Khan was ''an icon in Pakistan --the father of the nuclear weapons program.''
 Mr. Bolton said he believed that President Musharraf might finally have been emboldened by the revelations last year of Iran's illicit nuclear activities and Libya's decision to renounce weapons of mass destruction.
 Mr. Bolton, bristled visibly when committee Democrats suggested that he and other administration officials were overlooking Pakistani proliferation activities because of that state's cooperation in fighting terrorism.
 ''If we had information about complicity of top levels of the government of Pakistan, we would act on it,'' Mr. Bolton said.
 Mr. Bolton also disclosed Tuesday that the administration would soon penalize more companies for trading in nuclear goods and technology with Iran, but he did not identify them at the hearing. 
 Nonproliferation experts who have seen the new report said American officials had repeatedly complained to China and Russia about their companies' involvement in such transfers. No company, officials said, has ever challenged the sanctions in court. 
 Gary Milhollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a nonprofit group that monitors the spread of unconventional weapons, said that while some sanctions were useful, the United States needed tougher rules and mechanisms. 
 ''Many of these companies are repeaters and many don't even do much business with the U.S., nor we with them,'' he said. ''Iran is trying to get the bomb under the shield of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); SALES FORCE (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Arms Sales Abroad; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Law and Legislation; Foreign Aid; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) Judith Miller; George W (Pres) Bush; John R (Under Sec) Bolton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); BELARUS (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TAIWAN (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iran; United States; China; Iran; Russia; Macedonia (Former Yugoslav Republic); Belarus ; Taiwan; North Korea; United Arab Emirates; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



45 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8; Residential Real Estate

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Looser U.S. Lending Rules Are Protested

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
With New York and New Jersey recently enacting two of the strongest antipredatory lending laws in the nation, some public officials and consumer advocates are protesting what they consider a federal attempt to pre-empt all state and local legislation against abusive lending practices.
 At issue are regulations issued in January by the United States comptroller of the currency, John D. Hawke. Mr. Hawke insists that he was merely codifying longstanding court rulings that nationally chartered banks are not subject to state regulation. Meanwhile, one major bank with a New York State charter has begun the process of shifting to a national charter, which could eventually, among other things, exempt the bank from the state's curbs on predatory lending. 
 At the crux of the issue is a legal principle called ''assignee liability,'' under which financial institutions that buy mortgage loans issued by other lenders (in what is referred to as the secondary market) may be held liable if some of those mortgages are deemed predatory. While the New York and New Jersey laws that went into effect last year contain assignee liability provisions, the regulations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency do not.
 There has been no mincing of words in the debate. ''To think,'' said the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, that the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ''is trying, in the context of predatory lending, to take away the few voices protecting the most vulnerable individuals, it's an abomination.''
 ''The O.C.C. is doing the banks' bidding in trying to silence consumer voices,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''And it's often the bank's own subsidiaries that have made the bad loans.'' The attorneys general of all 50 states have signed a letter opposing the federal regulations, he said.
 Comptroller Hawke countered that Mr. Spitzer has ''shamelessly misrepresented'' what his office has done.
 ''What our regulation did,'' Mr. Hawke said, ''was codify court opinions and regulatory interpretations that have been on the books for well over 100 years. We didn't break any new ground or make any sweeping change in the rules.''
 Speaking specifically of the subprime mortgage market, which, for the most part, legitimately serves the needs of borrowers who would not qualify for a conventional loan, Mr. Hawke said: ''One of the problems with these laws in New York, New Jersey and other states is that they cause the secondary market to contract. So because they have provisions like assignee liability, subprime lending has fallen off.''
 The chairman of the New Jersey Assembly's financial institutions and insurance committee, Neil Cohen, said he wondered whether the federal comptroller has ''the authority, in the absence of federal enabling legislation, to simply say that the field of real estate lending is federally pre-empted.'' New York State's superintendent of banks, Diana L. Taylor, has written a letter to Representative Michael G. Oxley, chairman of the House Committee on Financial Services, asking Congress to block the comptroller from ''usurping state lending'' laws.
 Assemblyman Cohen argued that individualized state laws were best able to protect borrowers. ''There's a major difference between Iowa and our metropolitan area in terms of the types of lending products offered and credit backgrounds accepted,'' he said. ''You can resolve issues far quicker through a state banking commissioner and a state legislature than you can at the federal level.''
 Mr. Hawke insisted, however, that the regulations were needed to avoid the chaos caused as 25 states have enacted antipredatory lending laws. ''One of the advantages of being a national bank is that you can operate throughout the country under a single set of rules,'' he said.
 Last week, HSBC Holdings, a London-based bank with $95.6 billion in assets and more than 400 branches in New York, applied for a national charter, although, so far, its officials said, its consumer lending network will not fall under the federal charter.
 Mr. Hawke agreed that ''predatory lending is a problem, but it's not a problem in the banking business'' at the federal level.
 A bit bemused in the role of states' rights advocate, Sarah Ludwig, executive director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, a Manhattan-based antipredatory lending organization, contended: ''If the New York State Banking Department loses oversight over large state banks like HSBC, which might jump state and go for the national charter, the department will be left with very little authority over some of the largest financial institutions in the nation's banking headquarters.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREDATORY LENDING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); INSURANCE (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (82%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



46 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Kerry Campaigns Introduce Attack Ads in Swing States

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
The campaigns of Senator John Kerry and President Bush said yesterday that they were introducing new confrontational television commercials in swing states, with Mr. Kerry's spot criticizing Mr. Bush on job losses and Mr. Bush's criticizing Mr. Kerry on support of tax increases. 
 Mr. Bush's campaign aides showed their new spot to reporters yesterday, a day before they had planned to do so and shortly after Mr. Kerry's campaign announced that its new advertisement would begin running in 17 states today. Mr. Bush's commercial is to begin running on Saturday, his aides said.
 The Bush campaign's quick announcement was in keeping with its strategy to yield not an inch as Mr. Kerry strives to put it on the defensive. Mr. Kerry was off the campaign trail after shoulder surgery.
 The exchange on new spots came on a day when the Media Fund, a Democratic group, also began a new advertising campaign attacking Mr. Bush's $87 billion package to pay for military and reconstruction efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 In Mr. Kerry's new spot, an announcer says, ''While jobs are leaving our country in record numbers, George Bush says sending jobs overseas makes sense for America.'' It goes on to reprise Mr. Kerry's plan to create 10 million jobs.
 The advertisement refers to the 2004 economic report to the president from the White House Council of Economic Advisers, which said the short-term pain of overseas job losses because of global trade would be offset by long-term gains to the economy. Though Mr. Bush signed the report, delivered to Congress in February, he has never voiced support for sending jobs overseas. 
 ''The president has been clear and on the record,'' said Ken Mehlman, Mr. Bush's campaign manager. ''His goal is to create jobs in this country; his goal is to keep jobs in this country.''
 The spot from President Bush asserts that Mr. Kerry ''opposed tax relief for married couples 22 times'' and ''supported higher taxes over 350 times.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign said this spot unfairly cherry-picked provisions in tax cut bills proposed by Mr. Bush that Mr. Kerry believed favored the wealthy. Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry's press secretary, said he had voted at least seven times to preserve marriage-penalty relief and had proposed to do so in his economic plan, which includes other tax cuts for the middle class. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); OFFSHORING (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); MARRIAGE (61%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Election Issues; Taxation; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Television

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



47 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: TV Shows Take On Bush, and Pull Few Punches

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif., March 31 

 BODY:
Galvanized politically in ways they have not been since the early 1990's, Hollywood's more liberal producers and writers are increasingly expressing their displeasure with President Bush with not only their wallets, but also their scripts.
 In recent weeks, characters in prime time have progressed beyond the typical Hollywood knocks against Washington politicians to calling out the president directly or questioning his policies, including the decision to go to war in Iraq, the support of the antiterrorism law and the backing of a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage. 
 On the NBC show ''Whoopi,'' the hotelier played by Whoopi Goldberg delivered an anti-Bush screed when the president, played by a lookalike, appeared at her establishment to use the facilities. ''I can't believe he's in there doing to my bathroom what he's done to the economy!'' she said.
 One of the wise-cracking detectives on the NBC show ''Law & Order,'' played by Jesse L. Martin, referred to the president as the ''dude that lied to us.'' The character went on to say, ''I don't see any weapons of mass destruction, do you?'' His cantankerous partner, played by Jerry Orbach, retorted that Saddam Hussein did have such weapons because the president's ''daddy'' sold them to a certain someone ''who used to live in Baghdad.'' 
 But the season finale of ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' on HBO arguably best conveyed the growing sentiment. On that episode, the main character, played by the comedian Larry David, backed out of a dalliance sanctioned by his wife after noticing that his prospective paramour had lovingly displayed a picture of Mr. Bush on her dresser.
 Network executives and some producers said these were isolated cases, reflecting the political debate dividing the country and coming at a time when television has never had a greater diversity of viewpoints on a wider array of channels. They added that these examples should not be seen as reflective of a supposed liberal agenda in the entertainment industry, an argument they said was undercut by shows with patriotic streaks like ''J.A.G.'' on CBS. (These network executives declined to be quoted by name because, they said, it would be tantamount to engaging publicly in a debate traditionally thorny for them.)
 Still, many in the creative community are not shy about their anger and distress with the administration, and some acknowledge channeling those emotions into their productions. 
 ''You want to say to people, 'Wait a minute, is this man leading this country as an American or is he leading the country as a Christian,' '' said Ms. Goldberg, who is an executive producer and writer for ''Whoopi.'' 
 Asked if she would be pleased if her show could contribute to the defeat of Mr. Bush, she said, ''I would like that,'' but added that she was careful to present opposing views.
 Tim Graham, an analyst with the Media Research Center, a conservative group that monitors the media for signs of liberal bias, said scripts had not been this political since the 1992 election. That campaign season, displeasure over 12 years of Republican residency in the White House and Dan Quayle's criticism of the fictitious Murphy Brown for having a child out of wedlock contributed to the outspokenness.
 Mr. Graham and other observers said the barbs dwindled during the term of President Bill Clinton, who counted many in the Hollywood creative community as his friends. 
 And certainly after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, many in Hollywood seemed to get behind the president to see how they could help bolster the image of the United States abroad. Some executives later produced programming like ''DC 9/11: Time of Crisis,'' a Showtime movie about Mr. Bush's handling of the attacks that liberal critics said unduly lionized him.
 Producers, actors and longtime executives said that the combination of the failure to find unconventional weapons in Iraq, the troubled economy and the president's environmental and social policies had stirred the town's prominent liberals to action.
 ''I have never, ever seen this community more united than right now, never,'' said Laurie David, Mr. David's wife, who has been active in organizing the creative community against Mr. Bush. ''Not a day goes by when I'm not getting a dozen calls from people saying to me, 'What can I do?' And it's all with one goal: to change the course of what's going on in this country and get rid of this administration.''
 Ms. David and her like-minded peers are putting a lot of money behind the push. She, for one, has given $100,000 to the Media Fund and America Coming Together, Democratic groups using unlimited donations to run television commercials and to motivate voters against the president. Marcy Carsey, whose production house Carsey-Werner-Mandabach produces ''Whoopi,'' has given $500,000 to the Media Fund, federal election records show. Ms. Carsey declined to be interviewed for this article. 
 On Wednesday night alone, Senator John Kerry's campaign was estimated to have raised $2.5 million at a fund-raising event in Beverly Hills attended by powerful studio executives like Sherry Lansing, the chief executive of Paramount Studios, and stars like the actors Jennifer Aniston and Owen Wilson. Mr. David, who declined to comment for this article, performed at the fund-raiser. Saying he had a lot in common with the president, Mr. David described himself as ''a nincompoop, a chicken and a liar.''
 Republicans, conservatives and campaign aides to the president said they expected money to flow from Hollywood, a place they consider a bastion of liberalism, to the Democrats. But they said they were surprised by how much partisan sentiment seemed to be seeping onto television. 
 Mr. Graham said the anti-Bush sentiment coming across in prime time was more troublesome than usual because it was woven into scripts across so many of the major networks, and not restricted to sketch comedy.
 ''It's different when you're really involved in 'NYPD Blue' or 'Law & Order,' and to you it's, 'That's my man Sipowicz and he doesn't like Bush,' '' Mr. Graham said. ''This can be seen, and certainly is seen, by conservatives as Hollywood's in-kind contribution to the Kerry campaign.''
 Matthew Dowd, the president's chief campaign strategist, said he was not planning any moves to combat such scripted critiques. ''I do acknowledge every bit of information that's communicated on things has some effect,'' he said. ''But I don't think it's something you run against. It's something you acknowledge that exists, it's just something that's there.''
 Some producers said they were simply raising important questions as part of a larger national debate. Dick Wolf, the executive producer of the troika of ''Law & Order'' series, said that his characters' critiques of Mr. Bush were in his programs' long tradition of equal-opportunity provocation. ''Virtually everyone who lives in the lower 48 states at one time or another has been offended by 'Law & Order,' '' Mr. Wolf said in a statement.
 But other producers are more pointed in their questioning.
 ''Why does it have to become unpatriotic to do something that is our inherent right, which is to debate issues?'' said Tom Fontana, the creator of shows like ''Oz'' and ''Homicide.'' 
 Mr. Fontana said he wrote a film for HBO called ''Strip Search'' to explore the merits of the USA Patriot Act. The film, which has not been shown yet, tracks the parallel experiences of an American woman being held for questioning by the authorities in China and a Muslim man being held for questioning in the United States, both on suspicions of terrorism.
 ''The real question is, if it's wrong for a white American woman to be mistreated in a repressive country, is it O.K. for us to mistreat a Muslim male in this country?'' he said. ''I don't know the answer, but when does the humanity stop and the fear take over?''
 Robert Breech, an executive producer of ''The Practice'' on ABC, said his show was trying to spark debate and entertain while presenting both sides. In one episode, a lawyer gave an impassioned speech to a jury in which she referred to the use of a ''free speech zone'' that kept protesters away from Mr. Bush. ''What is happening to this country?'' the lawyer asked.
 ''We're really just inviting people to think about these things,'' Mr. Breech said. ''How far is too far in seeking security?''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on April 2 about television shows that have recently incorporated criticism of President Bush into their scripts included one erroneously. While an episode of ''Whoopi'' critical of the president was broadcast recently, it was a rerun; the show originally appeared last fall.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jerry Orbach, left, and Jesse L. Martin, as detectives on NBC's ''Law and Order,'' ridiculed the search for unconventional weapons in Iraq. (Photo by NBC)
On HBO's ''Curb Your Enthusiasm,'' the actor Larry David rebuffed Cady Huffman's character because she was a Bush supporter. (Photo by HBO)
 Whoopi Goldberg's character, Mavis, was not happy to see the president, portrayed by Steve Bridges, on the NBC program ''Whoopi.'' (Photo by NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (67%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Television; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US); Finances; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: National Broadcasting Co; Cbs Corp; Home Box Office 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); LARRY DAVID (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004



48 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A Mistrial Declared in Trial Of 2 Ex-Tyco Executives
The judge in the six-month trial of two former Tyco International executives declared a mistrial because one juror said she had received a letter.
 The Manhattan district attorney's office said that it would retry the case, in which the former chief executive of Tyco, L. Dennis Kozlowski, and the former chief financial officer, Mark H. Swartz, were accused of taking $600 million from the company. [Page A1.]

The jury was on the verge of coming up with its verdicts, one juror said. [A1.]

The role of the news media in the Tyco mistrial had many legal experts and journalists predicting a less public judicial process. [C1.]

The mistrial gives prosecutors in the Manhattan district attorney's office a rare second chance. [C1.]

The reputation of L. Dennis Kozlowski may never recover from the trial. [C5.]

Mark H. Swartz has always been a loyal deputy to L. Dennis Kozlowski. [C5.]

308,000 Jobs Created in March
The economy added 308,000 jobs in March, surpassing all but the most optimistic expectations among analysts. Unemployment, which is measured through a separate household survey rather than by tracking payrolls, rose to 5.7 percent from 5.6 percent in February. [A1.]

Sun and Microsoft Settle Disputes
Shares of Sun Microsystems soared 20 percent after it announced a surprising armistice with Microsoft that ends years of public acrimony between Scott McNealy, Sun's chief executive, and the software company. Under the pact, Microsoft will pay Sun $1.6 billion to settle Sun's antitrust suit against Microsoft and to resolve patent claims. The pact also includes a 10-year commitment by the two companies to work together, share technology and license each other's intellectual property. [A1.]

House Approves Highway Bill
The House overwhelmingly approved a highway and transit measure that exceeds spending limits set by President Bush, raising the prospect of the first veto showdown between Mr. Bush and the Republican-led Congress over popular election-year legislation. [A8.]

Aventis Opens the Door for Novartis
The board of Aventis voted to invite Novartis into merger talks. The move comes after Novartis said that it would try to counterbid a $60 billion hostile offer from Sanofi-Synthelabo if Aventis made such an invitation and if the French government allowed it. [C2.]

A Mitsubishi Official Resigns
Steven Torok, left, the head of international sales and marketing at Mitsubishi Motors, returned to the Chrysler unit in what is expected to be the first in a series of management changes at the car maker after a drop in United States sales, losses and recalls at a Japanese unit. The chief executive of Mitsubishi, Rolf Eckrodt, is expected to leave. [C2.]

Shell Tells of Several Setbacks
Royal Dutch/Shell is running over budget at a Russian project, and will not draw oil from its Nigerian offshore project until next year. [C2.]

Parmalat Papers Reappear
Documents that prosecutors in Milan said showed Bank of America had advance knowledge of the impending collapse of Parmalat disappeared Thursday, only to reappear. [C2.]

Pension Formula Bill Approved
The House approved a temporary pension contribution formula that would save employers billions of dollars. [C2.]

Roche Forms Cancer Drug Pact
Roche Holding formed a partnership with the biotechnology company ArQule to discover and develop cancer drugs. [C3.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,470.59 up 97.26Nasdaq composite -- 2,057.17 up 42.1610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.14% up 0.26The euro -- $1.2131 down 0.0234The dollar -- 104.49 yen up 0.78Graph tracks daily closes of Sun Microsystems since January.Yesterday: $5.06(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISTRIAL (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); VETO (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); MERGERS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); PATENTS (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (67%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); SANOFI SA (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (80%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (63%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%); NOVARTIS AG (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); SNY (NYSE) (84%); SANF (BIT) (84%); SAN (PAR) (84%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (80%); RDSA (AMS) (80%); RDS.B (NYSE) (80%); RDS.A (NYSE) (80%); 7211 (TSE) (63%); TYC (NYSE) (58%); NVS (NYSE) (52%); NOVN (SWX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (63%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



49 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Scanning For Success

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
The scanners are the least impressive things at the FedEx global distribution hub here in Memphis. The first thing you notice during the overnight sort is the endless parade of planes stacked up in the night sky. Then there are the swarms of workers who descend upon the planes once they land and strip them of their cargo. Then begins the scramble of the caterpillars -- little motorized tugs towing strings of cargo containers pell-mell around the complex and honking out warnings at every intersection.
 They're bringing about 1.3 million envelopes and packages a night to vast sorting arenas with names like the Primary Matrix Area. Inside these stadium-sized rooms there are rows and rows of speeding conveyor belts and rushing envelope trays. Little devices push or tip individual packages into one of the thousands of chutes and slides and ramps. If you stand on a catwalk over the conveyers and look down at the pulsing motion below, you feel that same disorienting, perilous sensation you get on a bridge staring down into a waterfall. 
 But it's really all about the scanners, the little cross-hatched red beams of light, like at the supermarket, that register each package's bar code at least a dozen times during its overnight trip. The scanners mean that customers can check the progress of their packages over the Internet. Plant managers can monitor the nightly flow and prevent bottlenecks. FedEx can manage this gigantic business and still have accessible information on each individual item. 
 One employee told me that when he started work at the company 17 years ago, he marked individual packages with crayons. But FedEx has participated in the productivity surge that has been reshaping the American economy. If you were obsessed with the political campaign over the past year, you would have gotten the impression that there's no such thing as a service sector of the economy -- it's all manufacturing -- and that the U.S. is getting trounced by China and India in the competition for global business.
 That's a distorted view of reality. Since 1995, the U.S. has enjoyed a productivity renaissance. The McKinsey Global Institute breaks the economy down into 60 sectors. U.S. workers are the most productive on earth in at least 50 of them. Productivity gains cause standard of living increases. Productivity gains lead to employment gains. If history is any judge, yesterday's excellent job numbers could mark the beginning of another surge in job creation. 
 As William W. Lewis, a former McKinsey partner, writes in ''The Power of Productivity,'' about half the U.S. productivity gains have occurred in just two sectors, wholesale and retail trade. We've gotten really efficient at getting stuff from the hands of manufacturers to the hands of consumers. These innovations have had more important effects on how people really live than anything done in Washington. 
 Some of the effects have been entirely positive. In part because of scanners, companies now know how much stuff they are selling. Inventory-to-sales ratios shrink; companies are less likely to overproduce. That helps reduce the boom-bust cycle, which disrupts lives. During the first half of the 20th century, the U.S. economy was six times more volatile than it is today, according to a study by Bill Martin of UBS Global Asset Management and Robert Rowthorn of the University of Cambridge.
 Other effects are double-edged. WalMart, a productivity powerhouse, gives middle class folks access to great products at great prices. It also decimates small merchants and contributes to the uglification of American suburbia. 
 Over the next seven months, the politicos are going to argue about the economic merits of the Republican years versus the Democratic years. That's a crime against intelligence. 
 The reality is that since about 1977, administrations from both parties have undertaken a series of policies, starting with deregulation, that have leveled the playing field and hence led to the period of intense business competition we enjoy today. That's the environment that fosters innovation.
 Yesterday's good economic news -- and the generally good news we've seen over the past 20 years -- owes more to innovators like FedEx's Fred Smith than to any of the many fellow Yalies who have sat or will sit in the Oval Office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); WHOLESALERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); JOB CREATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); POLITICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (52%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



50 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Large Raise For Executive At Hospital Stirs Criticism

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
Westchester Medical Center has provoked employees and union representatives by giving a top administrator a large raise in the midst of a financial crisis that has involved laying off scores of workers in the last year.
 In January, Joseph Pisani, the hospital's former chief financial officer, was promoted to the position of chief administrative officer, the No. 2 position, and his salary jumped to $480,000 from $275,000, hospital officials said.
 The amount of his compensation was first reported in The Journal News yesterday.
 Union officials lambasted the medical center, in Valhalla, N.Y., for rewarding Mr. Pisani with such a hefty pay increase while union workers were getting pink slips. 
 In December, 121 workers were laid off, while 61 more got layoff notices last month. A year ago, 110 employees lost their jobs.
 ''It's an absolute insult to the people who work there,'' said Mark A. Genovese, a spokesman for the New York State Nurses Association, which represents 1,500 nurses at the medical center.
 But hospital officials said that Mr. Pisani's compensation was actually below that of other top-level hospital administrators in the region. Moreover, the medical center, which ran a $70 million deficit last year and is facing a $45 million deficit this year, is in such fiscal straits that someone of Mr. Pisani's stature is critical right now, the officials said. 
 ''To get out of this thing, you need good troops, and Joe is really C.E.O. material,'' said Gene A. Capello, chairman of the Westchester County Health Care Corporation, which runs the 1,000-bed medical center. ''He has that kind of gravitas and can think outside the box and can think of creative solutions.''
 A statement released by the hospital said that the average pay for a second-in-command hospital administrator in the New York region was about $150,000 more than what Mr. Pisani was earning. 
 Mr. Pisani's predecessor, Marilyn J. Slaatten, had made $300,000, but her job description was not as broad as Mr. Pisani's, hospital officials said. 
 ''Westchester Medical Center is a $550 million organization in the midst of a radical turnaround and restructuring,'' said Claire Palermo Flower, a senior vice president, in a statement. 
 ''If we are to maintain the high standard of quality care for which we have national recognition, we must attract and pay the going rate for the best in the business.''
 Kathy Hastings, a managing principal of Sullivan, Cotter & Associates, a national employee compensation consulting firm with offices in New York, said the average salary for a No. 2 hospital executive in the New York region was $550,000 to $650,000.
 Despite the market forces surrounding Mr. Pisani's salary, union officials bristled and at least one county lawmaker questioned the move.
 ''The whole concept that executive pay has to be that far above that of those who provide the direct hands-on care is absurd,'' Mr. Genovese said. 
 ''Why are they looking to cut corners on the labor costs when they have a whole lot right there at the top?''
 Michael B. Kaplowitz, chairman of the budget and appropriations committee of the county's Board of Legislators, called the timing unfortunate. 
 ''If you're a nurse who's threatened with the loss of a job or have been told you're being laid off,'' he said, ''to see upper management get a raise, it leads them to rightfully ask questions.'' 
 The medical center spun off from the county in 1997, becoming a public benefit corporation. It currently has an interim president, John Spicer, who is working without pay.
 Mr. Spicer is also the president and chief executive of Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle and a member of Westchester Medical Center's board.
 The medical center board will soon hire a management firm, Pitts Management Associates of Baton Rouge, La., to ''stabilize and strengthen operations and finances,'' Ms. Flower said.
 Mr. Capello said the hospital was working with state and county officials on a ''financial package.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



51 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Put Your Money Where Their Mouths Are

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BISKE, Chad 

 BODY:
With Democrats on the warpath over trade, there's pressure for tougher international labor standards that would try to put Abakr Adoud out of work.
 Abakr lives with his family in the desert near this oasis in eastern Chad. He has never been to school and roams the desert all day with his brothers, searching for sticks that can be made into doors for mud huts. He is 10 years old. 
 It's appalling that Abakr, like tens of millions of other children abroad, is working instead of attending school. But prohibiting child labor wouldn't do him any good, for there's no school in the area for him to attend. If child labor hawks manage to keep Abakr from working, without giving him a school to attend, he and his family will simply be poorer than ever.
 And that's the problem when Americans get on their high horses about child labor, without understanding the cruel third world economics that cause it. The push by Democrats like John Kerry for international labor standards is well intentioned, but it is also oblivious to third world realities.
 Look, I feel like Scrooge when I speak out against bans on sweatshops or on child labor. In the West, it's hard to find anyone outside a university economics department who agrees with me. But the basic Western attitude -- particularly among Democrats and warm-and-fuzzy humanitarians -- sometimes ends up making things worse. Consider the results of two major American efforts to ban imports produced by child labor:
 In 1993, when Congress proposed the U.S. Child Labor Deterrence Act, which would have blocked imports made by children (if it had passed), garment factories in Bangladesh fired 50,000 children. Many ended up in worse jobs, like prostitution. 
 Then there was the hue and cry beginning in 1996 against soccer balls stitched by children in their homes (mostly after school) in Sialkot, Pakistan. As a result, the balls are now stitched by adults, often in factories under international monitoring.
 But many women are worse off. Conservative Pakistanis believe that women shouldn't work outside the home, so stitching soccer balls is now off limits for many of them. Moreover, bad publicity about Pakistan led China to grab market share with machine-stitched balls: over the next two years, Pakistan's share of the U.S. soccer ball market dropped to 45 percent from 65 percent.
 So poor Pakistani families who depended on earnings from women or children who stitched soccer balls are now further impoverished.
 I'm not arguing that child labor is a good thing. It isn't. But as Jagdish Bhagwati, the eminent trade economist, notes in his new book, ''In Defense of Globalization,'' thundering against child labor doesn't address the poverty that causes it.
 In the village of Toukoultoukouli in Chad, I visited the 17 girls and 31 boys in the two-room school. Many children, especially girls, never attend school, which ends after the fourth grade.
 So a 12-year-old boy working in Toukoultoukouli has gotten all the education he can. Instead of keeping him from working, Westerners should channel their indignation into getting all children into school for at least those four years -- and there is one way that could perhaps be achieved.
 It's bribery. The U.N. World Food Program runs a model foreign aid effort called the school feeding program. It offers free meals to children in poor schools (and an extra bribe of grain for girl students to take home to their families). Almost everywhere, providing food raises school attendance, particularly for girls. ''If there were meals here, parents would send their kids,'' said Muhammad Adam, a teacher in Toukoultoukouli. 
 School feeding costs just 19 cents per day per child. 
 So here's my challenge to university students: Instead of spending your energy boycotting Nike or pressing for barriers against child labor, why not sponsor school meals in places like Toukoultoukouli?
 I spoke with officials at the World Food Program, and they'd be thrilled to have private groups or individuals help sponsor school feedings. (See www.nytimes.com/kristofresponds for details.) Children in Africa will be much better off with a hot meal and an education than with your self-righteous indignation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD LABOR (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); SOCCER (67%); APPAREL MFG (66%); MARKET SHARE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); CHAD (93%); CHINA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



52 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Expansion Planned for Science Center in Liberty State Park

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 2 

 BODY:
Noting that the Liberty Science Center has outgrown its current building in Liberty State Park, the center's board said Friday that it would restructure the existing space and add a wing that would expand the center by about 50 percent.
 The addition of some 100,000 square feet to the current 196,000 square feet will require closing the building to the public by early next year. The center will set up a much smaller, temporary exhibit space in the newly renovated Central Railroad of New Jersey Terminal, a historic building in a part of the park near Ellis Island, and will take its displays to street fairs, schools and malls, said Robert J. Dougherty Jr., the chairman of the center's board. 
 Arthur F. Weinbach, the chairman and chief executive of Automatic Data Processing and a member of the science center's advisory council, said that instead of being less visible while its building is closed for the reconstruction, the center would touch even more people.
 The cost of the expansion, reported Friday in The Star-Ledger of Newark, is $104 million. The project was announced at a ceremony attended by four former New Jersey governors who helped build and sustain the center since ground was broken for the current building in 1989. They were Brendan T. Byrne, Thomas H. Kean, James J. Florio and Christie Whitman. Gov. James E. McGreevey, in a written statement, hailed the expansion of the center, to be completed in 2007, and its outreach to schools and educators as an investment in ''a vital resource.''
 In recent years, according to the center's staff, that resource, situated in the vastness of the 1,212- acre state park, has been hard pressed and overbooked in its effort to accommodate its 700,000 visitors a year. The center occasionally had to turn away school groups seeking to schedule visits. About one-third of its annual budget comes from state sources under a contract to provide science education services to the 180,000 students in the state's poorest districts.
 The reconstruction and the new wing will be financed by $89 million in state Economic Development Authority bonds and $27 million in private, foundation and corporate funds raised by the center.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Liberty Science Center would close during the construction of a new wing, but some some exhibits would move to a building nearby. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE PARKS (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); FESTIVALS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUDGETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%); FOUNDATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (56%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (87%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



53 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; THE TYCO MISTRIAL: THE PROSECUTOR

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: White-Collar Crime Crusader Gets Chance to Refine a Case

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
The Tyco mistrial gives prosecutors in the Manhattan district attorney's office a rare legal opportunity: a second chance.
 It will never be known exactly what verdict the jury might have reached on charges that Tyco's former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski, and former chief financial officer, Mark H. Swartz, stole $170 million from the company and reaped an additional $430 million through stock fraud. But experts say the prosecutors risked overtaxing the capabilities of any jury by presenting a welter of evidence and more than 10,000 pages of transcribed testimony from 47 witnesses.
 ''I'm not saying they screwed up,'' John C. Coffee Jr., a securities law professor at Columbia University Law School, said of the prosecutors. ''I think, though, that they might have focused on presenting the evidence more simply and effectively and not assumed that the jury was going to be outraged by every shred of evidence.'' 
 Prosecutors presented the Tyco jury with 32 felony charges buttressed by hair-raising examples of corporate overindulgence, like the infamous $2 million Sardinian birthday party for Mr. Kozlowski's wife, paid in part by Tyco International, and the large bonuses and perks received by Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz. 
 Interviews with jurors yesterday indicated, however, that while some of them favored convictions on some charges, prosecutors had failed to convince the entire jury that all of the acts of excess were crimes - and proving criminal intent was at the crux of this case. 
 ''A mistrial is generally viewed as good for the defense and bad for the prosecution,'' said Jim Walden, a former federal prosecutor who practices white-collar defense with the O'Melveny & Myers law firm. ''But this may be the exception that proves the rule because the D.A.'s office is going to get an opportunity to completely overhaul their approach.'' 
 The district attorney's office, in a statement, said it would seek a retrial, and it declined to comment further on the case. 
 For nearly three decades, the district attorney's office, headed by Robert M. Morgenthau, now 84, has been on the cutting edge of white-collar criminal prosecutions, snaring money launderers, wayward stock promoters and other Wall Street miscreants. While some legal experts have criticized Mr. Morgenthau for overstepping his jurisdictional bounds by taking on cases that are national, or even international in scope, his office routinely rebutted that assertion by saying that it was willing to plumb murky financial dealings often overlooked by federal law enforcement officials.
 The majority of Mr. Morgenthau's prosecutions have been successful, bolstered in part by the fact that defendants are wary of New York's harsh sentencing guidelines and tough prison system. For those reasons, most defendants choose plea agreements rather than run the risk that Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz took by going to court. 
 Of its past cases, the landmark for the Morgenthau office was the money-laundering and fraud prosecution of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International in the early 1990's. The case exposed how shady deals and pilfering in 73 countries on 3 continents resulted in depositor losses of at least $10 billion, opening the door for complex international fraud investigations. The Tyco case, which began as a relatively minor tax-dodging investigation before expanding into a full-blown fraud suit, is a more recent example of the district attorney's ambitions and tenacity.
 And for better, and for worse, the prosecution of the Tyco case bore important similarities to how the B.C.C.I. case was tried. In both cases, Mr. Morgenthau's office combined dogged investigative tactics with an pursuit of powerful and well-heeled defendants, unearthing evidence of excess, greed and possible malfeasance. But in both cases that mountain of evidence sometimes seemed to overwhelm Mr. Morgenthau's trial lawyers and the juries. 
 ''I have great respect for Morgenthau's office and his historical contribution to the prosecution of white-collar cases,'' Mr. Coffee said. ''But they have had trouble prosecuting big cases like B.C.C.I.'' 
 The Tyco trial wound up in state court primarily because the case began as an investigation by Mr. Morgenthau's office in January 2002 into suspicions that Mr. Kozlowski had evaded sales taxes on the purchases of millions of dollars worth of paintings. But whether in state or federal courts, the recent white-collar cases that have sprung from the 1990's economic boom and stock market boom have posed unique challenges to prosecutors, offering legal variations on the ''Goldilocks'' theme. 
 Pivotal evidence in the federal trial of the investment banker Frank P. Quattrone, who will be retried after a hung jury, hinged on a single line from an e-mail message (''too little''). Evidence in the Justice Department's case against Enron is voluminous but may be potentially too complex for a jury to sort through (''too much''). Evidence in the federal court conviction of Martha Stewart was relatively tidy and succinctly presented (''just right'').
 ''I think the Tyco case is the exact opposite of the Martha Stewart case, where the prosecution kept the case streamlined and focused on whether or not she lied and not on insider trading,'' Mr. Coffee said. ''The D.A.'s office has tried the Tyco case by the pitchfork, throwing in evidence by the bale without focusing on criminal intent.''
 Lawyers for Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz did not bother disputing that Tyco's coffers were thrown open for the executives. Instead, they argued that Tyco's board and auditor routinely approved lining the executives' pockets with large chunks of Tyco's funds. Hence, the defense said, no crime. In its simplicity, it was the polar opposite of the prosecution's strategy. 
 ''There's much to be said about a tighter approach,'' said Henry Hu, a professor of corporate and securities law at the University of Texas at Austin. ''I'm surprised there haven't been more blowups on the jury because I might have trouble myself being cooped up with other people for that amount of time.''
 The B.C.C.I. case, involving complicated financial shenanigans, was anything but a jury-friendly prosecution. Significant parts of that case stalled in the courtroom and critics at the time said its impact could have been even greater had Mr. Morgenthau's office handled the trial with greater dexterity.
 Yet even though the B.C.C.I. prosecution did not result in convictions of the two most well-known defendants in the case, the Washington power broker Clark M. Clifford and his protege, Robert A. Altman, it resulted in a number of other important guilty pleas and the disgorgement of more than $1.5 billion in fines. The B.C.C.I. case also put a spotlight on the nexus of global banking and dirty money, leading some of those familiar with the district attorney's office to note that court convictions were not the only measure of success.
 ''The D.A.'s office has never measured convictions like notches on a gun,'' said Thomas J. Curran, a former prosecutor in Mr. Morgenthau's office. ''We were encouraged to do justice and do the right thing.'' 
 Even so, some members of Manhattan's white-collar defense bar said the district attorney's office's perceived weakness in trying high-profile white-collar cases may have persuaded Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz's lawyers to go to court rather than settle the case. Others offered praise for the office but were critical of it in the Tyco case.
 ''The Manhattan D.A.'s office is really viewed as on a par with the U.S. attorney's office, but their lawyers did not try a particularly good case'' in the Tyco trial, said Mr. Walden, the O'Melveny & Myers lawyer. 
 Mr. Coffee of Columbia University noted that when prosecutors called the well-known lawyer David Boies to testify it offered a clear opportunity to demonstrate criminal intent. Mr. Boies, who had been retained by Tyco for an internal investigation, testified that Mr. Swartz admitted to him that a $12.5 million payment he received in 1999 was a ''mistake, and it should not have happened.'' 
 Mr. Boies also testified that Mr. Swartz's payment had not been approved by Tyco's board. 
 Although the defense contested Mr. Boies's account, Mr. Coffee said prosecutors could have put Mr. Boies's testimony to great use. Instead, he said, it seemed to get lost in the six-month flood of evidence.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert M. Morgenthau has been going after white-collar crime for decades. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); EVIDENCE (90%); VERDICTS (90%); MISTRIAL (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); WITNESSES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FELONIES (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); COURT REPORTING SERVICES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (67%); PRISONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP (91%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



54 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: House Backs Temporary Relief On Companies' Pension Costs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2 

 BODY:
The House approved a new temporary pension contribution formula Friday that would save employers billions of dollars while lawmakers overhaul the system. 
 The House voted 336 to 69 to replace a formula that companies use to make pension contributions. The new calculation is considered a better estimate of how much money pension funds need to pay future retirement benefits. The companies would save an estimated $80 billion over two years. 
 ''While everyone didn't get everything they wanted in this bill, I can assure you we'll all be back again a year from now when we are discussing long-term proposals to reform and strengthen the defined-benefit system,'' said Representative John Boehner, a Republican of Ohio. 
 Democrats criticized the bill for not doing more to save multi-employer plans -- a smaller group of funds run jointly by unions and management -- from being forced to make huge and crippling payments. The bill faces opposition in the Senate for that reason. 
 Representative Robert E. Andrews, Democrat of New Jersey, said the bill helped large corporations while punishing smaller businesses with union affiliations. 
 ''We won't throw the life preservers for union plans and union workers,'' he said. ''That is wrong.'' 
 Republicans countered that most multi-employer plans would not face serious pension problems until five or six years from now and did not need immediate help. A Democratic effort to make the bill more favorable to multiemployer plans was turned back on a 217-to-195 vote. 
 The legislation would also help financially struggling airlines and steel companies with underfunded pensions by letting them cut back on the amount they are required to pay into ''catch-up'' funds. 
 Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, doubted if there were enough votes in the Senate. 
 Thousands of single-employer pension providers must make quarterly payments by April 15. Without Congressional action, those providers will have to pay more, based on an outdated interest rate formula. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROVALS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (59%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); ROBERT E ANDREWS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



55 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Switzerland: Insurer Plans Cuts

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
Zurich Financial Services said it would cut another $200 million in costs this year, mainly in its British life business. After paring 4,500 jobs in 18 months, the chief executive, James J. Schiro, said that the company could blend operations in Britain, Continental Europe and the United States and shed more jobs through attrition. The cuts will focus on the British life business, where Mr. Schiro said that 450 jobs would go. While pursuing growth in general insurance, Zurich said it would also focus on improving its life business, which has been struggling with low interest rates, weak profit margins and tight regulation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LAYOFFS (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); EXECUTIVES (85%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP LTD (85%)

TICKER: ZURN (SWX) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (59%) EUROPE (91%); SWITZERLAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



56 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 501 words

PERSON: Murray Joseph Gart

HEADLINE: Murray J. Gart, 79, Last Editor Of The Washington Star, Is Dead

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

 BODY:
Murray J. Gart, the editor of The Washington Star when it ceased publication in 1981, died on Wednesday at his home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 79.
 The cause was complications of heart surgery, said his wife, Jeanne. 
 Mr. Gart became editor of the Star in 1978, shortly after his employer, Time Inc., bought it for $20 million and vowed to spend millions of dollars to pull it out of the financial difficulties that it had been suffering for a decade.
 Before taking over the newspaper, Mr. Gart managed Time's foreign and domestic correspondents for nearly 10 years. His work in that job included the Watergate scandal and the withdrawal of American forces from Vietnam.
 ''He was sort of like a four-star general in charge of a global theater of operations,'' said Strobe Talbott, the president of the Brookings Institution and a former colleague at Time. ''He was very, very well organized, and so the operation was very well organized.''
 Throughout his career, Mr. Gart developed a reputation for giving important assignments to young journalists with little experience. Former colleagues said he sometimes made personnel decisions based on little more than hunches.
 For example, not long after Mr. Talbott finished a summer internship, Mr. Gart made him the Eastern European correspondent for Time.
 ''Murray was a fabulous mentor of younger reporters,'' Mr. Talbott said.
 Murray Joseph Gart was born in Boston on Nov. 9, 1924. He served in the Army during World War II, and graduated from Northeastern University in 1949 with a degree in economics.
 He began his career in journalism that same year with The Honolulu Star-Bulletin. He went to work at Time Inc. in 1955 and became Time's Midwest correspondent in 1959.
 The Washington Star, begun in 1852 and once hailed as one of the richest and most influential newspapers in the nation, was struggling when Mr. Gart arrived. An afternoon daily, it was losing readers enticed by evening news on television and an entrenched morning rival, The Washington Post, which had 75 percent of the advertising market.
 Time spent $85 million on the newspaper over three and a half years, but decided in August 1981 that the project was too costly.
 As the man who ran the newsroom during the daily's demise -- and wrestled with staying competitive on a budget -- Mr. Gart became the target of criticism.
 Some members of his staff said he had misunderstood the Star's culture, and had replaced an atmosphere of mutual respect and camaraderie with one of division.
 But his supporters said that he significantly improved the newspaper, particularly the quality of its writing, and that under his guidance its journalism matched and beat the Post's with increasing frequency.
 In the end, Mr. Gart's supporters said, what had sunk the newspaper were not problems in the newsroom but problems on the balance sheet.
 In addition to his wife, Jeanne, Mr. Gart is survived by a son, Mitchell, of Bedford, Mass.; a daughter, Marcia Mersky of Wilton, Conn.; and four grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Murray J. Gart (Photo by Henry Groskinsky, 1978) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); WRITERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); WORLD WAR II (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TIME INC (91%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



57 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; THE AD CAMPAIGN

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Attacks Bush on the Flight of Jobs Overseas

 BODY:
This 30-second advertisement by Senator John Kerry's campaign began running yesterday in 17 important states where President Bush is also advertising.

PRODUCER -- Shrum, Devine & Donilon

ON THE SCREEN -- The spot opens with a shot of workers with lunch pails leaving a gated factory. It then shifts quickly to a head shot of President Bush. Also on the screen are a shot of his Economic Plan and supposed newspaper headlines that say ''Bush Supports Shifting Jobs Overseas'' and ''Treasury Chief Calls Outsourcing a Plus for America.'' Next comes a series of shots of Mr. Kerry shaking hands with workers. A supposed headline appears saying ''Kerry Plan Encourages Companies to Keep Jobs in U.S.'' Finally, Mr. Kerry says he approved the message.

THE SCRIPT -- The announcer makes these five statements: ''While jobs are leaving our country in record numbers, George Bush says sending jobs overseas makes sense for America.'' ''His top economic advisers say moving American jobs to low-cost countries is a plus for the U.S.'' ''John Kerry's proposed a different economic plan that encourages companies to keep jobs here.'' ''It's part of a detailed economic agenda to create 10 million jobs.'' ''John Kerry. A new direction for America.''

ACCURACY -- President Bush's annual Economic Report to Congress this year, which he signed, declares that it ''makes sense'' to import goods and services when they are ''produced more cheaply abroad.'' The Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, and the chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, N. Gregory Mankiw, have defended shifting jobs overseas as an integral part of international trade. This country benefits, they maintain, because more jobs are created here than are lost to other countries and the products produced overseas are less expensive for American consumers. Mr. Kerry has proposed removing tax benefits that encourage companies to move jobs overseas. He would use the money for a tax break to encourage companies to reinvest their foreign earnings in the United States. He has pledged to create 10 million new jobs during his first term, but he has hardly put forward a ''detailed economic agenda'' that could be counted on to meet that goal.

SCORECARD -- This ad campaign is beginning on the day the Labor Department announced that 308,000 new jobs were created in March, the most in any month since April 2000. Mr. Kerry has based much of his campaign on the fact that more than two million jobs have been lost in the United States since Mr. Bush entered the White House. But the strong job growth last month takes some of the steam out of that charge. If the trend continues in the months ahead it will be good news for the Bush campaign. With this ad, Mr. Kerry hopes to stoke workers' fears that whatever happened in March, their jobs are still in jeopardy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); APPROVALS (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



58 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: DATA FOR MARCH SHOW BIG SURGE IN JOB CREATION

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
After a long period of stagnation, job creation finally surged ahead in March, the government reported yesterday. The gains surpassed all but the most optimistic expectations among analysts and provided President Bush with a shot of good news to help counter Democratic attacks on his economic policies.
 The economy added 308,000 jobs in March, the Labor Department estimated, pulling out of a pattern of tepid employment growth to clock the largest number of new jobs in a single month since April 2000.
 Unemployment -- which is measured through a separate household survey rather than by tracking company payrolls -- inched up to 5.7 percent from 5.6 percent in February. But changes in the unemployment rate tend to lag other economic indicators. 
 While economists cautioned that one or two months of healthy employment gains would not necessarily ease widespread public anxiety about the job losses of recent years, they said the report presented a generally positive portrait of a job market on the mend.
 ''There is only a silver lining,'' said Mickey Levy, chief economist at Banc of America Securities. ''There are very few gray clouds.''
 Financial markets reacted strongly to the new data, sending bond prices down and pushing the dollar up as investors concluded that strong job growth would lead to higher interest rates in the months ahead. The stock market rose. [Page C1.]
 The vigorous increase in jobs was hailed by the White House, which had been under attack for the greatest loss of jobs during a president's term since Herbert Hoover.
 ''The economy is growing and people are finding work,'' Mr. Bush told a gathering of small-business owners and students in Huntington, W.Va. ''You can understand why I'm optimistic when I cite these statistics because I remember what we have been through.'' [Page C1.] 
 In announcing the new data, the Labor Department also revised its estimate of jobs created in January and February to a total of 205,000, almost double its previous estimate of 118,000. The revisions pushed average job growth in the first quarter to 171,000 a month, the most vigorous rate since the second quarter of 2000, shortly after the dot-com bubble burst.
 Though careful to note that a short burst of strong growth does not necessarily establish a trend, economists were optimistic that the long-awaited turnaround in the labor market might have begun.
 ''Today's upward surprise to the employment count was long overdue, and the underlying trend has probably been improving for some time,'' Steven Wieting, an economist at Citigroup Smith Barney, wrote in a note to investors.
 John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service, added, ''It may very well be that payrolls finally turned the corner in the first quarter.''
 But on the political front, Democrats were quick to point out that one month, or even one full quarter, of vigorous job growth does not make up for the millions of jobs lost on President Bush's watch. 
 ''Obviously all of us are pleased with the job numbers for this month,'' Senator John Kerry, the Democratic challenger for the White House, told reporters at his house in Boston. 
 But Mr. Kerry added that ''the deficits, which go out as far as the eye can see, the lack of any one single manufacturing job in those jobs, and the huge numbers of jobs that are leaving for overseas, tell the real story of the economy of our country.'' 
 Gene Sperling, a former domestic policy adviser in the Clinton White House who is advising Senator Kerry on economic issues, said in a telephone interview: ''One good apple doesn't save the whole bunch.'' 
 Responding to the Democratic attacks, N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, said the job market was only beginning to recover from a series of shocks to the economy, including the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in 2001, the corporate scandals of 2002 and the war in Iraq. 
 Mr. Mankiw argued that President Bush's tax cuts had been vital to stabilizing the economy in recent years, suggesting that raising taxes, as Senator Kerry has proposed to do for people on the highest incomes, could derail the employment recovery. With the recent improvement and gains in government employment included, some 1.8 million jobs have been lost over all since President Bush took office. But even with the upward swing in the first quarter, the economy, on average, has added 115,000 jobs a month in the last six months.
 This is substantially less than most previous recoveries, and is still little more than half the 200,000 new jobs a month that Treasury Secretary John W. Snow predicted in October would be added in the following 12 months.
 In March, employment growth, which is always adjusted to take account of expected seasonal variations, was bolstered by some one-time events. The end of a supermarket strike in California contributed to an increase of 47,000 in retail sales jobs.The economy added jobs strongly across the service sector. Employment in health care and social assistance rose 36,000. Of the broad economic categories, only manufacturing experienced no job growth. Yet after 43 consecutive months of manufacturing job losses, the zero jobs added in March represented a hard-won victory. 
 Until now, economists had been baffled that job creation lagged as other variables, from economic growth to new claims for unemployment, pointed toward a strong economy and a recovering labor market. 
 Every month for the last five months, they forecast a big jump in jobs -- only to be disappointed when the data was released. As employment consistently failed to respond, some analysts ventured that the economy must be growing more slowly than was generally believed while others argued that the traditional connection between economic advancement and job growth had broken down. 
 The new job report suggests that the labor market is returning to a more normal pattern. 
 Long after the economy emerged from recession in late 2001, relentless domestic and foreign competition kept a lid on employment as companies struggled to contain costs. Heavy investment in advanced technology was, meanwhile, allowing them to extract more output from their workers.
 Not all the labor indicators turned positive in March, however. According to the household survey, almost 24 percent of all the people listed as jobless have been unemployed for at least half a year, a full percentage point above the level in February and the highest level since July 1983, when unemployment soared to 9.3 percent. 
 At the same time, the average workweek of nonsupervisory workers slipped by 0.1 hour, to 33.7 hours. And average weekly earnings fell by 0.2 percent over the month to $523.70 -- barely 1.8 percent higher than it was a year ago. 
 Indeed, despite the employment increase, the index of aggregate weekly hours of production or nonsupervisory workers -- which measures the aggregate amount of work outside of farms in the private sector -- fell by 0.1 percentage point in March to 99 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in March''BY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteFeb.: 4.9%March: 5.1%BlackFeb.: 9.8March: 10.2Hispanic*Feb.: 7.4March: 7.4Asian+Feb.: 4.7March: 4.2Men 20 and overFeb.: 5.1March: 5.2Women 20 and overFeb.: 4.9March: 5.1Teenagers (16-19)Feb.: 16.6March: 16.5OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalFeb.: 8.2March: 8.4Lost jobFeb.: 4.3March: 4.6Left jobFeb.: 0.8March: 0.8Returning to labor marketFeb.: 2.4March: 2.4New to labor marketFeb.: 0.7March: 0.6'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working parttime, but want full-time workFeb.: 4.4March: 4.7'Marginally' attached workers**Feb.: 1.7March: 1.6Graph ''UNEMPLOYMENT'' tracks civilian unemployment from April 2004-March 2004.March 2004: 5.7 percentEMPLOYMENTBY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmFeb.: 130.2March: 130.5GoodsFeb.: 21.7March: 21.8ServicesFeb.: 108.6March: 108.8AgricultureFeb.: 2.2March: 2.2SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedFeb.: 62.2%March: 62.1%Labor force (workers and unemployed)Feb.: 65.9March: 65.9Graph ''EMPLOYMENT'' tracks nonfarm payroll survey (130.5) and household survey (138.3 million) from April 2003 through March 2004.Figures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.**People not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
 must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers. Not seasonally adjusted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); BOND MARKETS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



59 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-7

U.S. Enlisting Asian Allies In Missile-Defense Plan
The United States, racing to erect a controversial ballistic missile defense system by the end of the year, is quietly enlisting Japan and other allies in Asia to participate in a missile-defense network that could reshape the balance of power in the region. A1

Iraqi Religious Edict Issued
Religious leaders in Falluja issued a religious edict condemning the mutilation of the bodies of four American civilians, but they remained silent about the attack itself. The message was well received by townspeople, many of whom expressed satisfaction in the deadly ambush but shame in its aftermath. A6

The killing of four American civilians in Falluja was the latest in a series of attacks on foreigners in Iraq that have changed the way they live there, and officials expect attacks to increase in the prelude to the planned transfer of sovereignty. A6

Ethnic Cleansing in Sudan
The United Nations relief chief in Sudan said that Arab militias were conducting a campaign of ethnic cleansing to drive black Africans out of a border region of the country with the apparent tolerance of the Sudanese government. A5

New Bomb Found in Spain
A bomb discovered on a high speed rail line linking the Spanish capital to Seville was diffused without injury. The explosives were thought to be the same type used in the March 11 terror attacks. A3

NATO Adds Seven Members
NATO formally welcomed seven new members, stretching its security umbrella to the borders of Russia and prompting Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to reassure Moscow that it should not feel threatened. The new members expressed enthusiastic support for deeper NATO involvement in Iraq. A3

NATIONAL A8-11

U.S. to Tighten Screening Of Many Foreign Travelers
The Department of Homeland Security plans to require travelers from 27 industrialized nations -- including longtime allies like Britain, France, Germany, Spain, Japan and Australia -- to be photographed and electronically fingerprinted when they arrive in the United States. A1

Federal officials are warning police nationwide that terrorists might try to bomb buses or trains in American cities this summer. A10

Documents to Be Released
The White House has agreed to allow the commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks to review thousands of Clinton administration national-security documents that the White House had been withholding. A10

Federal Judge Takes Own Case
A federal judge in Louisiana has taken control of his own accident case involving his car and issued an order transferring evidence about his medical condition to a sealed federal court file. A8

Kerry Raises $50 Million
Senator John Kerry's campaign said it raised $50 million in the last three months, drawing on support from Democrats eager to defeat President Bush. A11

House Approves Highway Bill
The House overwhelmingly approved a highway and transit measure that exceeds spending limits set by President Bush, raising the prospect of a veto showdown between Mr. Bush and the Republican-led Congress. A8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

White House Issues Rebuttal
The White House issued a detailed rebuttal to accusations that the Bush administration had distorted or suppressed scientific information to suit its politics. A9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

City Agencies Disagree On Disaster Protocol
A dispute between the Police Department, Fire Department and the Office of Emergency Management over which agency will lead the response at the scene of a terrorist strike remains profound, documents and interviews show. A1

Disputes Over Border Change
A satellite-imaging map has cast doubt on the precision of 19th century surveys and has prompted a border dispute between Connecticut and Rhode Island. B1

Decaying Market to Be Reborn
A developer plans to build a multilevel retail complex and garage on the dilapidated 31-acre Bronx Terminal Market near Yankee Stadium. B1

Setback for Power Plant Plan
State examiners have recommended rejecting a developer's efforts to build an electrical power plant on the Brooklyn waterfront. B3

Skyscraper Museum Opens
The Skyscraper Museum opened to the public in a dedicated space on the downtown Manhattan waterfront. B3

Religion Journal B6

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

OBITUARIES A13

ARTS & IDEAS B9-19

EDUCATION

Harlem School to Remain Open
Mount Carmel/Holy Rosary School in East Harlem will remain open for one more year after a month of cookie sales and box-top drives. B2

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Mistrial Declared in Tyco Case
The judge in the six-month trial of two former Tyco International executives declared a mistrial after one juror said she had received a threatening letter. The Manhattan district attorney's office said it would move to retry the case. A1

The mistrial declaration was a frustrating result for the jurors, who after 11 days of sometimes acrimonious deliberations had come very close to a verdict. Several jurors said the panel probably would have found the defendants guilty of at least some of the 32 charges against them. A1

Job Growth Surges
The economy added 308,000 jobs in March, the Labor Department estimated, pulling out of a pattern of tepid employment growth. A1

Interest rates rose in the wake of the report, and stocks prices climbed as well. The dollar moved higher against the euro and the yen. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The mystery deepens; juror No. 13; beholding Byzantium; Serge Schmemann on a Russian oligarch's letter from prison.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B17
TV Listings B19
Crossword B16
Weather B20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); RELIGION (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); APPROVALS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); TRAINS (70%); FINGERPRINTING (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (65%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); JUDGES (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (70%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); SUDAN (93%); JAPAN (93%); SPAIN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



60 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Numbers a Relief To Republicans, But Fears Remain

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
For months, President Bush has premised his re-election campaign on the argument that the economy was back on track, citing rapid economic growth, low inflation, low interest rates and near-record home sales.
 But the anemic pace of job creation flew in the face of those upbeat assessments. Democrats accused Mr. Bush of presiding over more job losses than any president since Herbert Hoover. Republicans cringed on the first Friday of every month, when the government released its latest employment report.
 This Friday, with the announcement that employment grew by 308,000 jobs last month, relief among the Republicans was almost palpable. Mr. Bush was beaming when he took the stage yesterday in Huntington, W.Va., and declared, ''The economy is growing and people are finding work.'' 
 Rattling off the new job numbers as the crowd applauded, Mr. Bush drove home the message again: ''The economy is strong and getting stronger.'' Implicitly answering his Democratic critics on the campaign trail, he added, with a smile, ''The policies are working.''
 In fact, many analysts say, two major uncertainties still weigh heavily on Mr. Bush's political prospects. First, do the new job numbers represent the start of an enduring trend? Second, will people actually feel better about their prospects by election time in November, or is their anxiety rooted in something deeper than the unemployment rate?
 In the short term, the report clearly came at a bad time for Senator John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee, who has stepped up his criticism of Mr. Bush's employment record in television advertising and on the campaign trail in recent days. Mr. Bush's jobs record has been considered a crucial vulnerability in this fall's election; some of the most competitive battleground states have been hard hit by job losses.
 ''It's good news for almost everybody except John Kerry,'' Terry Holt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said of the new employment numbers. 
 But many Democrats said one month's statistical gain would not outweigh the pervasive economic unease of millions of Americans. 
 ''Momentary job growth does not change the overall fact that the country has suffered through three years of job losses,'' said Mr. Kerry, who met yesterday with his top economic advisers, several of them from the Clinton administration, at his home in Boston. ''The more George Bush tells people the economy is getting stronger, the more at odds he is with the reality that people see in their own lives.''
 Mr. Bush, at least, seemed to believe he was well on his way to escaping the curse of his father, who was plagued by a lackluster economy in his 1992 re-election campaign. ''Until now, it looked like it was deja vu all over again,'' said Edward Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Prudential Equity Group. ''These numbers suggest that George W. Bush will be luckier than his father.''
 Republican strategists agreed, arguing that the new job figures, if sustained, should translate into marked improvements in consumer confidence, the national mood about the direction of the country and Mr. Bush's approval ratings. Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster, said that voters' attitudes toward the economy are generally '''locked in'' by June or July of the election year. ''This ought to give the Bush folks running room,'' he said. ''I'm sure they're breathing a sigh of relief.''
 That said, the job market has defied experts' predictions for months. And clouds remain: manufacturers eliminated three million jobs in the past three years, and have yet to increase hiring. The average length of unemployment is longer than at any time in the last two decades.
 And for voters, the critical issue is less the absolute level of employment than whether their own job prospects are improving.
 Consumer confidence has been shaky, mostly because of job anxieties. Richard T. Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's monthly survey of consumers, said those anxieties are as much about long-term prospects as the immediate job market. The university's consumer survey has often been a good indicator of a president's re-election prospects, and Mr. Curtin said it was now at fairly high levels. But the surveys also show an underlying nervousness that may outlast the uplift from several months of good news about the job market.
 ''Consumers are apprehensive about near-term job prospects, but are also concerned about the viability of their job skills in a changing labor market,'' Mr. Curtin wrote in an assessment yesterday. ''The election debates about the potential remedies will keep anxieties at high levels, regardless of the growth rate in jobs in the year ahead.''
 Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, agreed. ''The economic question for voters is not about jobs per se but about good jobs with benefits that support a thriving middle class.'' Democrats will make the case that the underlying problems remain, from the loss of manufacturing jobs to the impact of soaring health care costs on middle-class Americans. They also noted that most of the jobs created last month were low-paying jobs in the service sector. 
 Still, pollsters said the sentiment among consumers was far more pessimistic when Bill Clinton was challenging the first President Bush than it is today.
 Unemployment was far higher in 1992 than it is now, and interest rates were much higher then because the Federal Reserve was still trying to stamp out inflation. 
 Mr. Bush was careful in his speech yesterday to note that the economy was still in transition, that workers needed to constantly update their skills and that the government ought to help. ''If you're one of the people that are worried about the transition, we need to make sure there's a plan to help you,'' he said. ''That's what we need to do.'' 
 He cited community college programs as having an important role in helping workers through this transition, and spoke at length with a handful of workers who had gone back to school to learn new skills. Mr. Bush also argued that the improvement in the economy underscored the need to make his tax cuts permanent.
 But Mr. Kerry, who has promised to create 10 million jobs in his first term, was scornful of the administration's economics. ''The measurement here is not whether you've done well in one month or two months,'' he said, after meeting with former Clinton advisers, including the former treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin, and Mr. Clinton's top economic adviser, Gene B. Sperling. 
 ''The measurement is the four years of an administration, and the measurement is the misery that an awful lot of Americans are suffering,'' Mr. Kerry said.
 Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center on the People and the Press, said Mr. Bush's challenges were more akin to those faced by President Ronald Reagan in his campaign for re-election in 1984. Mr. Reagan presided over a sharp recession early in his first term, but the economy was on the mend well before elections.
 ''Attitudes are worse than they were in 1984,'' Mr. Kohut said, adding that Mr. Bush will be in serious trouble if people don't feel better about job prospects by this summer. But, he said, ''I think he has enough time.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks monthly change in nonfarm payrolls from 2001 through 2004, seasonally adjusted JOBS -- MARCH: +308,000(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



61 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Math Doesn't Earn Him Points In Politics

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
When it comes to estimating populations, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg rarely is mathematically incorrect. Politically, his correctness may be another matter, at least for a man who wants a second term.
 Yesterday, during his weekly radio program, Mr. Bloomberg said he would like to see the minimum wage increased, preferably on the federal level, but if not, then in New York State. A bill in the State Senate would increase that wage to $7.10 an hour; several states have laws that require employers to pay wages above the federal minimum. 
 The mayor said such an increase would not be controversial because ''No. 1, there aren't that many people that work at the minimum wage.''
 He added, ''If you raised it, you probably really wouldn't help very many people because most people work at above it, but nevertheless there are some who are stuck at a minimum wage, and it's awful tough to feed your family.''
 About 6.3 percent of workers in the state earn the federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour or less than that rate, compared with roughly 3 percent of the nation's population, according to statistics from the federal Department of Labor. 
 But how many people add up to just a few is often in the eye of the beholder. ''There are a significant number of people who would benefit from the minimum-wage increase,'' said James Parrott, the deputy director at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group, citing 267,000 New York City workers who earn the federal minimum or slightly more. 
 The billionaire mayor has been working to counter criticism that he is insensitive to the economic realities of average New Yorkers, and a poll this week shows that he is having some success, but he is still prone to occasional remarks that may give offense to some constituencies.
 On several occasions recently, for example, he has dismissed the number of residents who he believes would be displaced by his administration's plan to rezone broad swaths of the far West Side of Manhattan, expand the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and build a 75,000-seat stadium.
 ''There's nobody that lives there,'' the mayor has said, citing a preponderance of parking garages and empty lots. Numerically, again, the facts are on his side; few people dispute that west of 10th Avenue in the upper 30's, there are only about 140 legal residents. 
 But that has not kept the mayor from stirring up adversaries with his remark. 
 ''I think it is disrespectful,'' said Anthony M. Borelli, the district manager of Community Board 4, who lives along 10th Avenue in the heart of the area proclaimed uninhabited by the mayor. ''He qualifies his statement by saying west of 10th Avenue, and there are very few buildings west of 10th Avenue,'' he said.
 ''What is frustrating is his refusal to recognize that his rezoning area is a lot larger than where he is planning to build a stadium,'' Mr. Borelli said. The Bloomberg administration's redevelopment plan for the Hudson Yards would change zoning throughout a 59-block area from 28th to 42nd Street west of Eighth Avenue, where the community board accounts for 21,000 residents. ''He basically equates my home with a parking lot,'' Mr. Borelli said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); STATISTICS (67%); ZONING (61%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



62 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Kerry, on 'the Rope Line,' Seeks a Big Return on Small Talk

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 2 

 BODY:
The other night in San Francisco, Senator John Kerry spoke for 24 minutes to some 2,000 people who had paid $1,000 apiece to hear him. Then, as the crowd dispersed and the band packed up, he spoke for 28 minutes more with the few dozen who had made their way to the front rows.
 He nodded at their whispered advice. He invited them to visit his Web site. He signed their programs and accepted their gifts, held their hands and squeezed their shoulders, stretched his ample wingspan three rows deep to touch outstretched fingers and bent his 6-foot-4 frame in half to put his face in front of a man in a wheelchair. 
 ''Hey, brother,'' he said to another man, who was wearing a V.F.W. cap. ''Congratulations,'' he offered to a woman who had just become engaged. Urged by someone else to remember Latinos, he replied, ''I hear what you're saying, and it's not going to be forgotten.''
 Mr. Kerry, the all-but-nominated Democratic presidential candidate, has been criticized throughout his career for an aloof, inaccessible style on the stump, and his stemwinders are a constant worry for supporters of his White House bid. Yet he is proving adept at the more intimate political ritual of the rope line: the inevitable postspeech meet-and-greet over a rope placed as a security measure to keep the crowd from the candidate. It is a daily dance that has become a central, even dominant element of his schedule. In fact, he sometimes spends more time in that kind of chitchat than in delivering substantive speeches. 
 Last Saturday in Kansas City, Mo., only about 50 people came to what had been billed as his main campaign event there, a lengthy round-table discussion on the economy. Three times that many turned up for his arrival at a private airstrip, where he made no remarks but bounced a pink-clad baby for far longer than the typical campaign commercial.
 ''I don't like to just run through it; I like to talk to people,'' the senator said Friday in a telephone interview from his home here. ''Make a little more conversation out of it than hello-goodbye.''
 Describing the experience as ''tiring but exhilarating,'' Mr. Kerry said he also picked up important tidbits along the rope line, and added, ''If you're asking people to go out and bleed for you and spend hours, it's important to do the same.''
 But as Mr. Kerry eases back onto the campaign trail Sunday morning with a visit to a black church in the Dorchester section of Boston, he will be hampered in his habit, instructed to wear a sling on his right shoulder to protect it after minor surgery on Wednesday. Dr. Bertram Zarins, who repaired two torn tendons in that procedure, said Mr. Kerry should refrain from heavy handshaking for at least a week and baby-bouncing for even longer.
 ''I won't be quite as physical for the first week or two,'' the candidate said in the interview, ''but I'm still going to say hi to people.''
 Roderick Hart, a University of Texas professor who specializes in political communication, said the art of the rope line had evolved since he, at age 13, shook the hand of a Massachusetts candidate for Congress, John F. Kennedy. These days, Professor Hart said, local television cameras typically capture the rope line, transmitting intimate if artificial moments to a wider audience.
 As a candidate working the line, ''you don't have to talk policy, and you don't have to have a nasty member of the press question you about what you said,'' he added. ''You can say larger things, more general things, more value-based things: 'I want to do what's right for this country. I'm sorry you're out of work. If I'm president, we'll make things better.' ''
 Like President Bill Clinton, the widely acknowledged master of the rope line, Mr. Kerry makes it a full-contact sport, reaching out with his long arms and often holding on to one person, as if to indicate she is next, while chatting up another. He asks frequent if mundane questions.
 ''What it all comes down to is your relationship with people one at a time,'' said Steven Rabinowitz, a political consultant who traveled with Mr. Clinton during his successful 1992 campaign and for a while afterward. ''The other people in the room will see it, the people at home on TV will see it, and they'll identify. And that's the magic.''
 At his recent stop in San Francisco, Mr. Kerry, as usual, dismounted the stage on the far side from where he would exit the room, leaving scores of people in his path out the door.
 His wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, led him to an 11-year-old girl who had started Kids for Kerry and raised the $1,000 admission fee. He bent down to kiss a woman's cheek. A former marine bonded with him over service in Vietnam. A man with shaggy hair offered snowboarding advice.
 Bill Bain, 45, who had met the senator on a rope line once before, grabbed his hand before he could pull away. ''I've shaken the hand of every losing candidate in the last 20 years,'' Mr. Bain said. ''But never twice. That's twice.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: It's a sight grown familiar, though Senator John Kerry, after shoulder surgery this week, will have to restrict his handshaking for a while. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (64%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



63 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: House Approves Highway Bill, Raising Prospect of Veto Showdown With Bush

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2 

 BODY:
The House overwhelmingly approved a highway and transit measure on Friday that exceeds spending limits set by President Bush, raising the prospect of the first veto showdown between Mr. Bush and the Republican-led Congress over popular election-year legislation.
 House members voted 357 to 65 to approve the measure, which its authors said would provide $275 billion for highway construction, mass transit and safety programs over six years. It will now have to be reconciled with a Senate bill that spends $318 billion. 
 The White House has threatened to veto any bill that exceeds $256 billion, but both the House and Senate approved their bills by veto-proof margins.
 Even as the bill was being considered on the House floor, influential lawmakers were adding last-minute projects paid for out of about $1 billion that had not yet been allocated. 
 Speaker J. Dennis Hastert received $88 million for a bridge over the Fox River in his Northern Illinois district that aides said he had wanted for more than a decade. 
 Representative Don Young of Alaska, the chairman of the transportation committee, added tens of millions of dollars for new bridges in his state. 
 And Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, took home $70 million to help make the Golden Gate Bridge more resistant to earthquakes.
 ''These projects create jobs and will greatly enhance the economic and environmental vitality of the entire San Francisco Bay Area,'' Ms. Pelosi said.
 Supporters of the House bill say it is the bare minimum needed to keep pace with national transportation needs, and $100 billion below what they had wanted to spend. They included a provision to ''reopen'' the legislation in 2005 if spending levels are deemed inadequate.
 ''I will be back,'' said Mr. Young, who had initially pushed for $375 billion. ''I will continue this fight because I believe in it so strongly for this nation.''
 To many rank-and-file lawmakers, the highway measure is the most important legislation of the session because it allows them to funnel money directly back into their districts. The House bill includes about $11 billion for such special projects, with 3,200 outlined in the legislation and more expected to be added in negotiations with the Senate.
 Over two days of debate, House members defended their measure against a presidential veto threat, saying the legislation was essential to keeping the United States economy competitive and was a sure way to create high-paying jobs.
 ''Why some bean counters have determined that we can do this bill on the cheap when the infrastructure needs of this country are crying out for repair is beyond me,'' said Representative Steven C. LaTourette, Republican of Ohio.
 But the White House, seeking to demonstrate its commitment to cutting the mounting deficit, has indicated that it intends to stand firm against spending increases in the legislation, and that Mr. Bush could veto a measure that has bipartisan support.
 Hoping to avoid a confrontation between Mr. Bush and Congress, House leaders say they intend to keep the White House closely involved in the coming negotiations to avert a veto. 
 ''The speaker is going to work this out in conference with the White House so the president does not veto this job-creating bill,'' said John Feehery, a spokesman for Mr. Hastert.
 While the vote margins in both the House and Senate were well over the number needed to override a veto, some Republicans would probably switch their positions to support the president in a veto fight.
 The House vote was unusual for the Republican-controlled chamber because the bill was opposed by more Republicans -- 59 -- than Democrats -- 6. Voting in favor were 194 Democrats, 162 Republicans and one independent.
 Republican opponents included those who said the bill was too expensive and overloaded with special projects, and lawmakers from Florida, Georgia and elsewhere who believed the measure penalized their states. They voted against it after an effort to change the financing allocation was defeated by those from states that would have seen their money drop. A Democratic-led effort to raise the spending to equal the Senate was also rejected.
 Among those opposing the measure was the No. 3 Republican in the House, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the party whip. He said that if the measure was not improved, he would vote to sustain a veto. ''The final legislation needs to be a six-year bill, not a bill that has to be reopened in two years,'' he said.
 Negotiations between the House and Senate are expected to begin after the Easter recess. The federal highway program is now operating under a short-term extension that expires on April 30. Unless final legislation is approved by then or the program extended again, highway projects around the country could be shut down and transportation workers laid off. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DON YOUNG (58%); STEVEN C LATOURETTE (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



64 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Developer Buys Faded Market In the Bronx

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
For three decades, the Bronx Terminal Market has been mired in political scandal and decay as New York City battled in court interminably with the family that had leased the property and ran the fruit and vegetable market into the ground.
 Now, under a three-way deal signed yesterday, the Buntzman family finally relinquished its hold on the dilapidated 31-acre market near Yankee Stadium. Related Companies, the developer that is completing Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle, bought out the Buntzmans' lease with the city. The company plans to build a large multilevel retail complex and garage on the property, with an esplanade and a park along the Harlem River. The project, however, will take several years to wend its way through the city's approval process. 
 ''Hallelujah!'' exclaimed the Bronx borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr. ''It's been an open sore for us. It made for a pretty darn ugly gateway to the Bronx.''
 David Buntzman, the 96-year-old family patriarch, could not be reached at his home in Sarasota, Fla., and his lawyer did not return calls requesting comment.
 Related declined to say how much it paid for the Buntzman lease, but according to one person involved in the negotiations, the developer agreed to pay the Buntzmans more than $40 million. 
 The deal brings to an end years of litigation between the city, which owns the property, and the Buntzmans, who obtained a 99-year lease for the market in 1972, shortly after Mr. Buntzman delivered $30,000 in cash to Mayor John V. Lindsay's flagging presidential campaign in Wisconsin. 
 State investigators subpoenaed a number of Lindsay administration officials who went on to become major public figures, including Jeffrey Katzenberg, who became chairman of Walt Disney Studios and a co-founder of DreamWorks SKG, and Richard Aurelio, who later was president of Time Warner's City Cable Group and founder of New York 1 News. But a special prosecutor found no evidence to indict anyone.
 A series of politically connected lawyers and lobbyists kept the city at bay for decades as the market fell into disrepair. The Buntzmans also sued the city, claiming that it had failed to live up to its obligations under the lease.
 Andrew M. Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said in a statement issued yesterday that Related's takeover of the lease was a positive sign for the Bronx. ''Today's agreement is a major step forward that will enable us to move ahead with the Bronx Terminal Market project,'' Mr. Alper said, ''which will create thousands of jobs for the Bronx and generate enormous economic activity and tax revenue for the city.''
 For now, Jeffrey Blau, president of Related, said his company would continue to run the market, where fewer than 30 fruit and vegetable wholesalers are operating in the buildings along the cobblestone streets. Built in the 1920's, it was once one of the largest Hispanic food wholesale operations in the country, with more than 100 tenants and more than 1,000 employees.
 The paint is faded and blistering on many of the crumbling buildings, with broken windows on the second floors. In the next few months, Related plans to demolish the hulking brick refrigerated warehouse that was once the market's central structure. Eventually, the tenants will be relocated elsewhere in the Bronx, and Related will redevelop the site.
 ''In 32 years, what did the Buntzmans do?'' asked one wholesaler, Omar Duarte, with a shrug of his shoulders. ''Nothing, except raised the rent. If you don't invest in something for 32 years, of course it gets run down.''
 Mr. Duarte's father, Ricardo, has run Cuba Tropical in the best-kept building at the market for the past quarter-century. But they have mixed feelings about the future. ''It could be a good thing,'' the younger Mr. Duarte said. ''But I wouldn't want to move. We have a great location. It's a one-stop shop for a lot of our customers, bodegas, supermarkets and restaurants.''
 Three years after Mr. Buntzman obtained the lease for the market, he became the subject of state and city investigations into whether he used political influence to get a sweetheart deal from the city. Wholesalers at the market who were in a dispute with the family told state investigators that Mr. Buntzman had laughed at them when they threatened to take their complaints to the city. They said he boasted of flying out to Wisconsin with a bag of cash for Mr. Lindsay's campaign.
 Investigators later found that Mr. Buntzman had contributed $30,000 shortly before he got the lease. The lease was renegotiated in 1973, relieving him of millions of dollars in obligations to rehabilitate the market. But the investigation did not result in any indictments. 
 The city cited the family for the illegal dumping of asbestos in 1988, and in 1991, it filed a $1.8 million lawsuit against the Buntzmans, saying the market was plagued by poor management, filthy conditions and illegal dumping. In 1993, Mayor David N. Dinkins described the market as ''an atrocious eyesore'' and sought to condemn the Buntzman lease, and a few years later the borough president, Fernando Ferrer, called for the creation of a sports-oriented retail and entertainment center on the site, Yankee Village. The Buntzmans countersued, claiming that the city had failed to invest in the market and walled off a vital elevated roadway that connected the market to the Major Deegan Expressway.
 Also at issue were the Buntzmans' rent payments to the city. In recent years, they had paid about $120,000 a year in rent, but the city claimed that the family was millions of dollars in arrears, though the Buntzmans denied that allegation. Related will pay the city about $250,000 a year in rent, according to city officials. With a trial date looming, a concerted effort began about a year ago to settle the dispute. Richard Ravitch, the former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, was brought in by both sides to mediate. Finally, a deal was struck with Related.
 ''This is a very happy ending to a tragic 30-year history of disinvestment and the Buntzmans' failure to fulfill the public interest incumbent upon a long-term lessee of city property,'' said Carl Weisbrod, a former president of the city's Economic Development Corporation who tried to break the lease.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 3 about the transfer of control of the Bronx Terminal Market misstated an aspect of the 1970's investigation into the granting of a 99-year lease to David Buntzman after he made a $30,000 contribution to the presidential campaign of Mayor John V. Lindsay. Richard Aurelio, Mr. Lindsay's campaign manager, says he was never subpoenaed in the case, and prosecutors also say they have no recollection or record of any such subpoena, although they investigated Mr. Aurelio's role at the time.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bronx Terminal Market near Yankee Stadium now has fewer than 30 fruit and vegetable wholesalers. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); MAYORS (74%); SUBPOENAS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); EVIDENCE (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (72%); CABLE INDUSTRY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); APPROVALS (69%); LOBBYING (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (65%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (65%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (65%)

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (58%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



65 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Takes On Moderate G.O.P. Senator in Pennsylvania

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: LANCASTER, Pa., March 29 

 BODY:
Representative Patrick J. Toomey, Republican candidate for Senate in Pennsylvania, has been ripping his opponent for being a ''Ted Kennedy'' liberal, too fond of taxes and spending, too close to activist judges and trial lawyers, too supportive of abortion rights and the United Nations.
 Never mind that his opponent, Senator Arlen Specter, is a four-term Republican who has been endorsed by the nation's conservative-in-chief, President Bush. Party cleansing, not party unity, is Mr. Toomey's goal.
 ''The problem we've got is a handful of Republican senators who never really bought into the idea of the Republican Party in the first place,'' Mr. Toomey told a group of gray-suited businessmen in this conservative city. ''I represent the Republican wing of the Republican Party.'' 
 Generously financed by an antitax group, the Club for Growth, Mr. Toomey is giving Mr. Specter his toughest primary since he won election 24 years ago. Mr. Toomey has closed to within 13 points or less, recent polls show, with less than a month left before primary day on April 27.
 But while a Specter defeat would be a momentous event in Pennsylvania politics, the race is capturing national attention for another reason. Mr. Specter, 74, is the elder statesman of a dwindling band of centrist Republicans in Congress. In taking him on, Mr. Toomey, 42, and his conservative backers are hoping to send a message to all Republican moderates: turn right or face costly challenges. 
 ''If we beat Specter, we won't have any trouble with wayward Republicans anymore,'' said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, which has spent nearly $1 million on advertisements criticizing Mr. Specter. The club's members have contributed about $800,000 to Mr. Toomey's campaign.
 ''It serves notice to Chafee, Snowe, Voinovich and others who have been problem children that they will be next,'' Mr. Moore said, referring to three moderate Republican senators: Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and George V. Voinovich of Ohio. 
 Under this pressure, Mr. Specter has spent much of the campaign underscoring his conservative credentials. He routinely meets with gun groups, heralding his support for gun rights, lower taxes and smaller government. And he starts every speech with anecdotes about Mr. Bush while distributing fliers featuring Vice President Cheney. 
 But Mr. Specter is also unabashed in his disdain for the Club for Growth, which he calls a gang of ''Wall Street tycoons.'' Mr. Toomey, he says, is ''not far right, he's far out.'' 
 ''Virtually everybody except the Club for Growth and my primary opponent agree that a big tent is necessary to be the prevailing national party,'' Mr. Specter said in an interview. 
 Although the Club for Growth is by far Mr. Toomey's biggest backer, an array of prominent conservatives have endorsed his campaign, including the National Right To Life Committee and the National Taxpayers Union Campaign Fund. Grover G. Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform and James C. Dobson, chairman of Focus on the Family, have also given endorsements. 
 ''Specter has been a one-man road block to the confirmation of conservative, pro-family judges,'' Dr. Dobson wrote to supporters. He also accused Mr. Specter of helping to block a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage.
 Mr. Specter says that while he believes marriage is between a man and a woman, states should pass their own laws defining the institution. Mr. Toomey supports the federal amendment.
 But conservatives have not been monolithic in their support of Mr. Toomey, who represents the 15th Congressional District in eastern Pennsylvania. Most prominently, the National Rifle Association, one of the largest and most effective political operations on the right, has endorsed Mr. Specter. Though Mr. Toomey has perhaps a stronger record on gun rights, the association has a policy of protecting incumbents who support their major positions.
 Rick Santorum, Pennsylvania's junior senator and a darling of the conservative movement, has also appeared in Specter advertisements. Mr. Moore, of the Club for Growth, said conservatives who back Mr. Specter were missing a crucial opportunity. ''For 25 years, they have complained about Specter,'' he said. ''Now we've got this guy cornered and we can actually replace him, and yet there are some conservatives that are sitting on the sidelines.''
 But some leading conservatives argue that the Club for Growth blundered by making the race a high-profile test of the conservative movement because Mr. Specter might be too hard to defeat. Despite his moderate positions, these conservatives say, he is not ''the worst Republican senator,'' as the National Review said on its cover last year. 
 ''Specter is hard to peg,'' said one leading conservative, who did not want to be identified as breaking with other conservatives. ''He can be with you sometimes.''
 Mr. Toomey comes from a working-class family, graduated from Harvard on scholarships, worked in international finance and opened a restaurant before winning an open Congressional seat in 1998. 
 In Congress, he advocated supply-side economics, supporting cuts to the estate and corporate gains taxes, a flat income tax and individual investment accounts for Social Security.
 On the stump, Mr. Toomey pokes fun at projects Mr. Specter has voted for as part of appropriations bills, including a rainforest in Iowa. 
 ''He is rated one of the Senate's most wasteful spenders,'' says a commercial from Club for Growth. ''John Kerry? No. Arlen Specter.''
 Mr. Toomey also warns that if Mr. Specter is re-elected, and the Republicans retain control of the Senate, Mr. Specter will probably become chairman of the Judiciary Committee, where he could block conservative bills and judicial nominees. 
 ''You could argue his liberalism didn't matter when Bill Clinton was president because we weren't going to get conservative legislation signed into law,'' Mr. Toomey said. ''We do have the opportunity now.''
 Mr. Specter grew up in Russell, Kan., went to college in Philadelphia and became the city's district attorney before getting elected to the Senate in 1980. His arguments for re-election are bluntly pragmatic. He contends Mr. Toomey is too rigidly ideological to win the general election, having voted contrary to the state's Republican Congressional delegation 76 times in five years. Mr. Specter also promotes his seniority, his constituent services and the money he delivers to communities. 
 That kind of clout seems to be what many local Republicans want. ''Money goes with seniority,'' said Dave Cyphert, chairman of the Clarion County Board of Commissioners in conservative northwestern Pennsylvania. 
 Incumbency has also helped Mr. Specter vastly out raise Mr. Toomey, collecting $11.5 million in contributions to Mr. Toomey's $2.5 million. With less than a month to go, Mr. Specter has more than $9 million on hand compared with $2 million for Mr. Toomey, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. 
 Both candidates contend they can help Mr. Bush carry Pennsylvania, which he narrowly lost in 2000. Mr. Toomey asserts he will energize conservatives; Mr. Specter argues he can help the president among swing voters and centrist Democrats. 
 But the biggest factors in determining the primary, analysts say, may be turnout and anti-incumbent sentiment. A low turnout dominated by conservatives could favor Mr. Toomey, the analysts said. Polls also indicate that dissatisfaction with Mr. Specter runs high among Republicans. But that is balanced by Mr. Toomey's lack of name recognition.
 Mr. Specter's weakness is also his strength, said G. Terry Madonna, director of the Keystone Poll at Franklin & Marshall College. ''He's practical. He gets things done. The pragmatic conservatives may say: 'he delivers, even if we don't agree with him.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Arlen Specter, below left and above, spoke to doctors this week at Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine in Erie, Pa. Mr. Specter, a senator since 1981, is facing a primary challenge from Representative Patrick J. Toomey, below right, a conservative who said, ''I represent the Republican wing of the Republican Party.'' Mr. Specter, who was healing from a fall, said Mr. Toomey was ''not far right, he's far out.'' (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)
(Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (77%); GUN CONTROL (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ABORTION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: PAT TOOMEY (93%); ARLEN SPECTER (91%); TED KENNEDY (73%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (59%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (59%); DICK CHENEY (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2004



66 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Seeing the Car Show Through Insiders' Eyes

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
GIVEN that the car business is one of the world's most cutthroat industries, it is no surprise that the people who work for auto companies pay close attention to the competition. What might be surprising is how generous they can be in praise for their rivals.
 While not exactly a mutual-admiration society, the men and women who design, engineer and sell vehicles -- and come together at a few leading industry shows, like the New York International Auto Show that opens on Friday -- are often free with compliments for the competition.
 As in past years, The New York Times asked prominent people in the industry to evaluate the cars and trucks introduced earlier this year at the Detroit auto show (most of which will be displayed in New York), and to pick their favorites. Once again, there was only one ground rule: products from their own companies were off limits. 
 Here are the cars and trucks that the insiders liked best, and why:

Anne Asensio, General Motors
Executive director for advanced design.

FORD MUSTANG: ''I kind of react very well with the 60's Mustang because it was the Mustang I saw in France as a kid. It was for me very much an icon.''

LINCOLN AVIATOR CONCEPT: ''What was interesting was that Lincoln was working very hard at getting the brand identity. I really like that concept. It is very well proportioned. It was easy to love.''

MERCEDES-BENZ VISION GST: ''It's impressive the way they are utilizing the interior space. I really like this glass roof and very light leather that gives you an incredible feeling of space and feeling good inside.''

TOYOTA FTX CONCEPT: ''The blue concept truck with the very big front grille was definitely a very bold statement. Usually Toyota is really refined, finessed, but a little bit understated. It was interesting to see Toyota really getting into the design with this truck. By design I mean, 'I'm going to be bold, as I would be in America.' This is what is surprising with this truck.''

Donald V. Esmond, Toyota
General manager of the Toyota Division of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A.

FORD FIVE HUNDRED: ''It's going to be pretty good competition. From the outside, about Taurus size, but certainly a lot bigger on the inside, with a pretty huge trunk and V-6. It feels like you sit a little higher in it, a little more of the S.U.V. king-of-the-road feel. The all-wheel-drive option is a big plus.''

CHEVROLET COBALT: ''I think they've done a good job with the overall package and an excellent job on the interior, really taken it a little more upscale.''

HONDA S.U.T. CONCEPT: ''I think from their perspective they are listening to the customer, and the customer wants more utility, wants to haul passengers and have some utility. The product they've rolled out certainly will do that.''

Ralph Gilles, DaimlerChrysler
Design director for the Chrysler Group.

PONTIAC SOLSTICE: ''I have to give G.M. a lot of credit for making that vehicle for that price [about $20,000]. It has a pretty dramatic proportion for its size.''

FORD MUSTANG: ''It is interesting to see a car that is so uniquely American. The surface is very taut. We use a word in design: it's tight, taut. There are a lot of lines that go from stem to stern that stabilize the design and organize it nicely.''

FORD BRONCO CONCEPT: ''It was honest, a pure statement. Some of the S.U.V.'s they have been doing have tried to be carlike in their execution. This is very trucklike, very robust looking, almost like a giant toy.''

Len Hunt, Volkswagen
Vice president for sales and marketing, Volkswagen of America.

PONTIAC SOLSTICE: ''I think it even went beyond where the concept was. We all liked it when we saw it as a concept. Then we saw the real one and thought that's even better. We can now really give to the customer the designer's dream.''

CHRYSLER ME FOUR-TWELVE: ''In this world of fuel economy concerns, there was the ME Four-Twelve supercar. There is still a voracious appetite for huge horsepower.''

INFINITI QX56: ''They are coming in and saying, 'We're going into every section of the market.' It's saying, 'I'm going to come into your luxury market with the G35, which I did and did it very successfully. I'm coming into your coupe-kind-of-crossover market with my FX series, and now I'm coming in with the big trucks.''

NISSAN FRONTIER: ''They are a force to be reckoned with, both in their Infiniti and Nissan brands, and the Nissan Frontier would be a good example. It means there's nothing sacred anymore. They are going to have full coverage of the market and they are going to take on anybody.''

Robert A. Lutz, G.M.
Chairman, G.M. North America.

FORD FIVE HUNDRED: ''It is very space- and package-efficient and seems to have a very nice interior from a craftsmanship standpoint. But to me the interesting thing is the broad reuse of that front-wheel-drive and all-wheel-drive architecture, the fact that it shares a common architecture with the Ford Freestyle and allegedly with some Volvo models. If you do it cleverly, you can get quite an array of vehicles that all look and behave very differently.''

FORD MUSTANG: ''It is the first Mustang in ages that totally recaptures what the original five years of Mustangs were all about. I think in that sense Ford has a substantial hit.''

CHRYSLER 300 AND DODGE MAGNUM: ''They are very bold departures from conventional automotive design. They are very static-looking; they have a very large, blunt nose; and in many ways are reminiscent of American cars of the 50's. I think it's a very risky design direction. I'm not sure I would have dared do that. It could be that it's going to be hugely successful -- in which case I will say, 'I wish I'd thought of that.'''

J Mays, Ford
Group vice president for design.

PONTIAC SOLSTICE: ''I think they've done a very nice job of bringing it into production, and if they can bring it to the market for under $20,000 it's a very high-quality little two-seat roadster. It's a nice proportion; the shape has lightened and matured from concept to production.''

TOYOTA FTX: ''I think the overall shape of that vehicle was a bit of a head fake; I don't believe that's what the design will look like once it comes to production, but Toyota was implying that they are entering into the full-size-truck arena. Obviously that has huge ramifications.''

AUDI A8 L 6.0 QUATTRO: ''The front end was quite a fist on the table saying, 'This is the direction we are headed.' The front was very authoritative and had a lot of presence. They are no longer either technically or from a design standpoint standing in the shadow of Mercedes.''

MERCEDES-BENZ VISION GST: ''Maybe it was most significant for me because of the level of color and material sophistication found on the interior. It was an absolutely stunning combination of materials, textures and colors.''

Joel Piaskowski, Hyundai
Chief designer, Hyundai Kia Design and Technical Center.

PONTIAC G6: ''It is the first real Pontiac under Bob Lutz. It still has a lot of Pontiac flair and character but done with a very international design sense. It's a very clean, pure design statement. It's the first vehicle that will change the face of Pontiac for years to come.''

PONTIAC SOLSTICE: ''It is a pretty darned good interpretation of the show car. As a designer you can see some things that were compromised to allow for federalization and packaging. Some of the proportions changed a little bit; the car got a little bit larger. But to Joe Public, it's a show car at a price point that's going to be very affordable.''

FORD MUSTANG: ''The Mustang is significant because it is a big departure from its predecessor. The new one is really going back to its heritage.''

LEXUS GS: ''That's a significant vehicle that is showing the new face of Lexus. There are hundreds of vehicles on the roads today. Some blend into the pavement and others really stand out, and this Lexus is starting to push that. It will stand out.''

VOLVO S40: ''It has this tough, squat, bulldog appearance, kind of hunkered down. It has a real good stance to it. The lines have a lot of motion.''

Tom Semple, Nissan
President, Nissan Design America.

FORD SHELBY COBRA: ''The dashboard on that car was just exquisite. Just the cleanliness. Just the billet aluminum that was milled out. And the gauges started and stopped where they should; you didn't have to have the whole gauge. And the toggle switches, which are so important to a sports car.''

SATURN CURVE: ''I liked the simplicity of the body, the fact that it was extremely smooth. It had some of the old G.M. arrogance about it. And the emphasis of the wheel forms -- the forms came up and influenced what the shape of the hood was like.''

PONTIAC SOLSTICE: ''The interior quality is very nice, and the exterior surfaces were very beautiful. If you look at the rear deck and the way the headrests are integrated into the sheet metal, it's very, very beautiful and quite elegant. I don't think anybody has challenged the Miata in that range for a long time.''

JEEP RESCUE CONCEPT: ''It had a very businesslike, off-road feel to it. The way it was put together seemed very straightforward. It's in the same vein as the Hummer.''
 The New York auto show opens to the public at 1 p.m. Friday at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Information is available at (800) 282-3336 or www.autoshowNY.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lincoln Aviator: ''Easy to love.''
Pontiac Solstice: ''Very beautiful.''
Ford Mustang: ''An icon.''
Saturn Curve: ''Extremely smooth.''
Toyota FTX: ''Bold statement.
''Chrysler 300: ''Bold departures.''
Ford Five Hundred: ''Bigger on the inside.''
Audi A8 L 6.0: ''Authoritative.''
Mercedes Vision GST: ''Feeling of space.''
Infiniti QX56: ''Every section of the market.'' (pg. 1)
 J Mays, group vice president for design at Ford, with the new Mustang. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BRANDING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA INC (51%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



67 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1; COPING

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: On the Soup Line, Lives Gone Awry

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
SHE had a strong sense of the punch line, the catchy refrain in every story. ''I love my mother, but '' was one of her punch lines. ''I love my mother, but '' she read from a short memoir she had written in blue ink on a piece of lined notebook paper. ''But,'' the woman continued, hers is the kind of mother who, on Mother's Day, ''always flips the card over to check the bar code to see how much I paid for her greeting.''
 Another punch line was ''pearls in a soup kitchen.'' She knew it must look funny, wearing a pinstripe suit, pink-shell top and pearls, then lining up to eat the free spaghetti and meatballs in the soup kitchen at Church of the Holy Apostles in Chelsea. ''Pearls in a soup kitchen,'' she said, smiling at the irony. 
 Tory Connolly Walker, the woman of many punch lines, was a little better dressed than most -- but not all -- of the people who ate lunch last week at the soup kitchen, on 28th Street and Ninth Avenue. It's a cliche, of course, having a Harvard degree one day and being down and out the next, or having a job in making pizza one day and sleeping at the Atlantic Avenue men's shelter in Brooklyn the next.
 But in these times of conflicting employment statistics, the cliches live at the Holy Apostles soup kitchen, where you can walk in Monday through Friday and find a real-life character out of a Frank Capra movie. There's Chris, who has a Harvard degree in mathematics and lives in a rooming house a few blocks away, compulsively repeating information about the etymology of names (''Did you know that Pedro means Peter and Pablo means Paul?''). He says his wife deserted him 30 years ago, when he had his first mental breakdown, and he raised his twin sons with the help of his sister; those sons are now physics professors at Cornell. 
 Another regular is Andrew, homeless since he was kicked out of a job he won't specify by an employer who, he says, has ''blackballed'' him for four years. With earnings from panhandling, he buys several newspapers a day, scans them for news about homeless people and hones his lunch-table conversation. ''We talk a lot about the economy, the situation with the president, the way Republicans are presenting themselves as champions of America,'' he said, ''even though this is an artificial recovery, and future generations will be paying for it through the ballooning national debt.'' 
 Chris and Andrew carry photo ID cards distributed by the soup kitchen, the way people carry identification from an employer. 
 But there are plenty of others at the soup kitchen, perhaps the majority, who are poor, uneducated and never had much of a chance. They are people like David, who says he was earning $400 a week off the books making pizza in Newark before being laid off a month ago because businesswas slow. 
 ''The shelter system in Newark is horrible,'' he said the other day, pouring himself a cup of coffee out of a giant urn. ''It's what I heard New York used to be in the 80's, where you gotta sleep with your shoes on. The smaller towns like Bergen County, they put you up in a motel on Route 46, with a color TV and air conditioning, and they give you food stamps. But then you run into transportation problems.'' That's why he came to New York.
 It seems unlikely that anyone not truly hungry would seek out the soup kitchen's food. On Thursday it was turkey ham, frozen vegetables, reconstituted mashed potatoes, stewed figs and bread, all heavy on the salt and hardly Balducci-fresh. Still, this soup kitchen gets good word of mouth because the portions are generous and, unlike many others, allows second helpings.
 To some, the scene at the soup kitchen is ineffably sad, a Frank Capra movie in reverse, with no redemptive payoff at the end. To others it is inspiring. Clyde Kuemmerle, the gray-bearded soup kitchen coordinator, a former theatrical producer and agent who worked out of the Sardi's building before he went broke, says he sees the face of Jesus, though sometimes with difficulty, in every person who comes through the feeding line. 
 He can see Jesus, for instance, in Tory Connolly Walker, who was a radio reporter for WOSU-AM, the NPR affiliate in Columbus, Ohio, 22 years ago, before succumbing to manic depression and crack. Ms. Walker, 48, says she is off drugs, and is the star student in a writers' workshop held after lunch at the soup kitchen. She has also made a small step toward rejoining the world of journalism. She distributes the free daily newspaper AM New York in the subways for $9 an hour, three hours a day. It's a wonderful life.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (64%); PANHANDLING (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



68 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Fast Response May Reduce Any Economic Hit to State

BYLINE: By GEORGINA GUSTIN

 BODY:
THE 100-or-so-mile stretch of Interstate 95 from Greenwich to the Rhode Island border is an artery: clog it up and the body shudders.
 The closure of Connecticut's most traveled and chronically troubled route temporarily changed the state's entire transportation infrastructure. Trucks were re-routed to Interstate 84 or onto ferries crossing Long Island Sound; cars did the same or made their ways, very, very slowly, onto the Merritt Parkway. Trains, often ignored modes of transport, particularly east of New Haven, saw spikes in ridership.
 The transportation network shifted and absorbed to accommodate the new patterns, and so did the people and businesses who depend on it. But while their response certainly lessened the impact of the accident, it was the quick repair of the highway that may have saved the state a big economic hit. Some of the state's business analysts said the economic impact was likely to be minimal. 
 ''If it had lasted longer, you might've seen a more dramatic impact,'' said John Markowicz, a member of the state's Transportation Strategy Board, a group charged with finding transportation options for the state. ''We expected this to last a month and basically it lasted about a week.''
 Still, while it lasted, businesses were affected. Some saw business go up, some had it decline so badly that they gave workers an unexpected vacation and some saw their expenses rise as truckers, stuck for hours in traffic and sent miles out of their way on detours, passed along the extra money they were spending to deliver goods. 
 ''It's been real slow, '' said Coleen Quackenbush, a cashier at the Secondi Brothers travel plaza off Exit 40, where, last Sunday, only a handful of tractor-trailers idled in the parking lot, and the restaurant was closed because of slow business. ''They've been cutting back our hours because there's been no business. I'm sure other places are doing the same thing.''
 Secondi Brothers and two other truck stops along a stretch of I-95 between Milford and New Haven were ghost towns for a while. But when the northbound lanes of the highway opened earlier than expected last Sunday around 5 p.m., the lifeblood flowed back in.
 ''Business has picked up since they opened up the northbound lanes,'' Mike Lake, a shift supervisor, said last week before the southbound lanes opened also. He said that Secondi management allowed a few employees to go on vacation because they expected the road to remain closed for weeks. ''They were looking at a week.''
 For Secondi and other businesses along I-95, the closure of the interstate delivered a mercifully short blow.
 ''We did see a pretty big impact at that particular store,'' said Jim Taylor, a spokesman for the Cracker Barrel chain, referring to the restaurant just up the road from Secondi. ''But the business is coming back. The local folks were coming, but the travelers couldn't get there.''
 Truckers, not surprisingly, were especially hard hit by the closures, prompting some truckers to ask the state for financial relief.
 ''It's been a challenge, but we're delivering freight everywhere we need to deliver it,'' said Mike Riley of the Motor Transport Association of Connecticut. ''It's just going slower and it's going to cost more. If we have a driver who's supposed to be back in two hours and it takes eight, it's going to cost more in salary and gas.'' 
 Mr. Riley said truckers were levying surcharges onto the companies they delivered to, and he expected those costs could ultimately get passed on to consumers.
 ''The trucking industry can't absorb this cost,'' he said, explaining: ''If a guy brings oranges from Florida and he gets caught in the mess, he's on the road for four or five hours longer than expected. That's fuel and money he can't afford, so he's going to charge a surcharge.''
 Some companies, though, aren't in the time-sensitive business of produce.
 ''Obviously, if our customers can't get to us that's not a good thing for business,'' said Steve Mullen, a spokesman for the electronics chain, Circuit City, who said he wasn't aware of any delivery problems to the company's stores in the Northeast. ''Unfortunately, if we have to deliver a day later, while unfortunate, it's not like someone's going to lose the product.''
 For other businesses, the closure of I-95 rerouted traffic in their favor, providing a fleeting economic boom-let. At Exit 25 northbound in Bridgeport, traffic was rerouted for nearly three full days, from Thursday night to Sunday, on a route that led through the city's downtown, along State Street. At the McDonald's restaurant along the detour route, the marquis announced, ''Now Open 24 Hours,'' and at a Kennedy Fried Chicken on State Street, trucks and cars filled the parking lot.
 ''It was more than before,'' said the owner, Abdul Aminy. ''A lot more traffic, a lot more trucks.'' But, said Mr. Aminy, he wasn't sorry to see the northbound lanes open again, because his regular customers were actually thwarted from their usual visits by the new traffic. ''We like it normal, it's much better than busy,'' he said. ''Then people can go back to their lives.''
 For Metro-North and at least one of the state's ferry operators, the hobbling of I-95 just reiterated the interstate's persistent blockages while boosting passenger loads in the process.
 On Metro-North, ridership from New Haven to Grand Central jumped over all by 4,000 customers in the days following the I-95 closure. From New Haven to Stamford or Greenwich -- on intrastate travel -- ridership went up by 75 to 90 percent, or between 2,500 and 3,000 riders.
 ''Certainly, this boost, this eye-popping increase, is a testament to the fact that the system is in place,'' said Dan Brucker, a Metro-North spokesman, ''and we believe these customers will stick to Metro-North after the I-95 bridge reopens because we have given them 100 percent, on-time performance, which is far better than what they can do in their automobile -- without melting bridges.''
 After the closure, federal officials asked ferry companies to bump up their slow-season schedules to usher cars and trucks across Long Island Sound, but Cross Sound Ferry in New London had anticipated the stress on I-95 and had ramped up their schedule already.
 ''The demand was there because of the closure,'' said Stan Mickus, director of marketing for Cross Sound Ferry, which ran hourly, and even half-hourly, ferries between New London and Orient Point, N.Y., to accommodate the increased flow, but has returned to its normal pre-summer schedule now that I-95 is back open. The Bridgeport-Port Jefferson ferry also increased service, which will continue until after Easter weekend.
 Advocates of alternatives to highway travel, including the companies that run rail and sea operations, said the accident underscores the need to look at more environmentally and user-friendly mass-transit options.
 ''What's taking place on I-95 and on 495, is a major reason the demand for our services has gone up,'' Mr. Mickus said. ''People would rather be on a boat than sitting in traffic.''
 In southeastern Connecticut, the Foxwoods Resort Casino and Mohegan Sun Casino, officials said, were unhurt by the accident.
 ''In fact, we not only didn't have any cancellations of our bus passengers, but we had one of our strongest days in terms of that market segment,'' said Mitchell Etess, executive vice president of marketing for Mohegan Sun, referring to last weekend. ''We were somewhat concerned, and perhaps a bit surprised it didn't affect us. The travel up was not as severely impacted as we thought, and apparently the bus operators have alternate routes they use in the summer, and they basically resorted to those routes.''
 Officials at the Mystic Coast and Country Travel and Industry Association, the tourism bureau for the Mystic area, said they were also surprised by the minimal effect of the I-95 shut down. At Mystic Seaport, for example, attendance last weekend was actually up over the same weekend last year.
 ''I think we may have dodged a bullet on this one,'' said Chris Jennings, president of Mystic Coast and Country. ''Everyone was braced for bad news.''
 Some of the state's business analysts said, because the closure was relatively brief, the economic impacts were likely to be minimal, though it was too soon to quantify.
 ''It's impossible to accurately estimate the impact on the business community,'' said Jim Watson of the State Department of Economic and Community Development. ''There are too many variables, especially with the alternative routes available.''
 The quick work of construction crews will have minimized the economic hit.
 Mr. Markowicz of the Transportation Strategy Board said the state, region, and even nationwide glitches caused by the blockage of just one road should be a wake-up call for transportation strategists and lawmakers.
 ''If I had to make a recommendation it would be for the transportation department to do an assessment of what the impact was,'' Mr. Markowicz said. ''If you take a look at what happened this past week, you have an indicator of what could happen in 10 years on 95. It'll be a parking lot. Maybe it's time to look at alternatives.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: There were plenty of empty seats at the Secondi Brothers plaza in Milford while the bridge was being fixed.
 Traffic on the Merritt Parkway increased after the accident and business on the highway's gas stations doubled in some cases. (Photographs by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); FERRIES (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



69 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33; FOLLOWING UP

LENGTH: 554 words

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:

Officer's Killer Fails To Regain Windfall
 Sixteen years after drug gangsters executed a rookie police officer in New York City -- and long after they were imprisoned and exhausted their appeals -- legal ripples still emerge from the notorious killing.
 In February 1988, the officer, Edward Byrne, 22, above, was shot in the head five times as he sat alone in a patrol car guarding the home of a drug case witness in South Jamaica, Queens. 
 Four men were convicted in 1989 of murdering Officer Byrne and sentenced to 25 years to life in prison. 
 In 1999, one of them, David McClary, was awarded $660,000 by a federal court jury after he sued the state for having kept him in solitary confinement for four years. The jury found that his civil rights had been violated and that he had suffered mental distress during his long isolation; it rejected the argument that he had to be segregated because his notoriety had made him a possible target for other prisoners. A judge reduced the amount to $237,500.
 Political leaders were among the angry critics of the award, and in 2001 they changed a state law to enable Officer Byrne's family to claim the money. 
 Previously, the so-called Son of Sam law -- named for the 1970's serial killer David Berkowitz -- permitted victims or their survivors to sue those convicted in their cases for proceeds derived from the crimes, like royalties from a book. Now they can sue for virtually any money the prisoners receive. The Byrne family sued, and got the $237,500.
 But that was not the end, Mr. McClary's lawyer said recently. She said Mr. McClary sued in federal court in 2002 to have the revision of the state law declared unconstitutional. The state had ''changed the rules suddenly,'' said the lawyer, Anna Marie Richmond, ''depriving him of due process of law'' and other rights.
 But last month the suit was dismissed, she said, with the court finding that it lacked jurisdiction to consider the claim.
 Mr. McClary, 38, is now in the general inmate population in the Shawangunk Correctional Facility in Wallkill.
 Where Ms. Richmond said the money had been a valid award for his mistreatment in prison, the Byrne family's lawyer, John P. McEntee, said the family was ''relieved that he was not able to profit from killing their son.''

Instead of a Museum, Hungry Mollusks
 The museum is not coming. The wood-eating water creatures are feasting.
 That, in a seashell, is the story of two city-owned piers on the East River in Lower Manhattan.
 In 2000, the Guggenheim Museum said it would build an outpost on a site that included the old piers. But in 2002 the museum canceled the widely publicized Frank Gehry plan, above, for financial reasons.
 The piers, 13 and 14, now lie vacant. The city, also in 2002, ousted a tennis club from them, saying they had become unsafe.
 The city's Economic Development Corporation said recently that the piers' future now depended on an overall plan being drawn up for the East River waterfront. 
 But the planners may not be the only ones with a say in whether Piers 13 and 14 survive. The damage making them unsafe has been caused by marine borers, tiny mollusks and crustaceans that eat away at wood pilings. The erosion ''happens quickly once it starts,'' said a corporation spokeswoman, Janel Patterson.
 The question is, more quickly than planners plan?


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PRISONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (83%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); DUE PROCESS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); APPEALS (77%); JURISDICTION (77%); LAWYERS (77%); VERDICTS (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); WITNESSES (73%); HEAD INJURIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



70 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 13; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Jennie Koch, Jason Easterly

 BODY:
Jennie Margaret Koch, the daughter of June Quint Koch and Noel Clinton Koch of Rockville, Md., was married last evening to Jason Tighe Easterly, a son of Patricia Cawthorne Easterly and Dr. Harry Watkey Easterly III of Sturbridge, Mass. Rabbi Arthur Blecher officiated at the Old Angler's Inn in Potomac, Md. 
 The bride, 35, works at the White House as the executive assistant to Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser. The bride is also a major in the Army and a graduate of West Point. She received a master's degree in politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford University, which she attended as a Rhodes scholar. 
 Her father, who was a deputy assistant secretary of Defense in the Reagan administration, is president of TranSecur, a company in Potomac that provides alerts on international security matters to subscribers. Her mother, who also worked in the Reagan administration, as an undersecretary for intergovernmental relations in the Housing and Urban Development Department, is an international consultant for construction and energy projects in the former Soviet Union.
 The bridegroom, 36, is an assistant commonwealth's attorney for Richmond, Va. He graduated from Bowdoin College and received a law degree from the University of Richmond. His father is a general and vascular surgeon on the staff of Harrington Memorial Hospital in Southbridge, Mass.
 Major Koch and Mr. Easterly met last June on a dating Web site, which they visited at the urging of friends and relatives. Major Koch, who is used to 15-hour workdays, did not have much time for dating. (She said her office's unofficial motto is ''Work like a dog, live like a monk.'') And although Mr. Easterly had dated a few women after a long-term relationship, he said he had not met anyone special. 
 His first e-mail message to her set him apart from others who had written her, she said. She enjoyed how it poked gentle fun at a spelling error in her personal profile, demonstrating his attention to detail and sense of humor, she remembered. Soon they were corresponding several times a day, which led to phone calls and a first date in July. 
 With Major Koch's job, Mr. Easterly might have expected to undergo some sort of security check. He did not. But when he arrived unexpectedly at her office in October, he faced the intense scrutiny of her colleagues. (He passed with high marks, Major Koch said.) 
 That evening he proposed to her on the White House grounds. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); CITIES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (55%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (69%) MARYLAND, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



71 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1; LONG ISLAND JOURNAL

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: Growing Hub for All Things Salvadoran

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT was business as usual on a recent morning at the Consulate of El Salvador in Brentwood. The television blared in Spanish. Five different local Spanish-language newspapers were being perused in the waiting room, where dozens of Salvadorans sat quietly on plastic chairs waiting to get their passports renewed. Signs posted in Spanish listed the fees: $60 for a passport; $5 for a birth or death certificate. 
 Jose Eduardo Aparicio, 40, of Hempstead, a busboy at the Lucky Dog restaurant in Garden City South, didn't mind the wait for his passport renewal. He had an appointment the following day with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, hoping to get the green card that would enable him to return legally to the United States after what he said would be his first visit to his mother in El Salvador since he came to the Island 20 years ago.
 Next to Mr. Aparicio were Miguel Angel Cruz, 70, a factory worker, and his wife, Emilia Cruz, 57, of Westbury. Mr. Cruz, a resident alien, needed his passport renewed so he could arrange to have his Social Security check sent to El Salvador, where he hoped to retire soon. Mr. Cruz has been in the United States for 18 years; his wife joined him five years ago after raising their two daughters alone in El Salvador. 
 Mariza Angel, 24, drove to the consulate from Flushing, Queens, with her son, Moises, 8, to renew his passport. After being raised by Ms. Angel's mother in El Salvador since he was nine months old, Moises came to live with Ms. Angel, a manicurist, four months ago. She said she needed valid identification for Moises to get him health insurance. 
 ''This is more convenient,'' said Ms. Angel, who chose to drive to the consulate in Brentwood, the only foreign consulate on the Island, rather than take a train to the Salvadoran mission in Manhattan. 
 About 200 people a day come to the consulate to have passports issued and renewed, register marriages, births and deaths, take care of their pensions or appoint a representative to do legal work for them in El Salvador.
 But in the two years since the office moved to Brentwood from East Garden City, it has become much more than a convenient place to process paperwork. In this former bank office Salvadorans can also find legal, tax and immigration assistance, work toward a high school diploma, open a bank account, apply for health insurance, join the Girl Scouts or act in a play. Much of the activity is the work of Luis Montes Brito, the consul general, who is trying to turn the building into the center of community life for Salvadorans on the Island.
 Once a month on Friday nights, Mr. Montes Brito pushes the waiting-area chairs to one side to make room for a stage for a Noche Lirica, a free evening of music and poetry. Mr. Montes Brito, a portly 41-year-old industrial engineer on his first diplomatic assignment, is among the performers. He sings. He recites poems. Last month, he hung paper cutout clouds from the ceiling as decorations for a play, ''To the Right of God,'' which drew an audience of 200. In the summer, Mr. Montes Brito said, he plans to move the entertainment to the parking lot to make room for a larger crowd. 
 ''We are the link between El Salvador and the United States,'' Mr. Montes Brito said. ''Our people here, sometimes they lose their culture.'' 
 Local Salvadorans also turn to the consulate for all sorts of practical help. David Renderos, a real estate broker from Uniondale, comes to the consulate a few mornings each week to advise other Salvadorans on buying homes, helping them fill out paperwork and trying to make sure they aren't being taken advantage of when getting mortgages. Two nights a week, Martin Danenberg, a teacher from Islandia, volunteers his time at the consulate helping Salvadorans work toward their high school equivalency diplomas. ''A large part of the community is illiterate,'' Mr. Danenberg said. ''They never learned to write and read. The future of the community is education.''
 Since February representatives of the Brentwood branch of Citibank have been at the consulate on Monday mornings helping Salvadorans to open bank accounts. 
 ''Our people don't know, they don't speak English,'' Mr. Montes Brito said. ''They carry cash instead of putting in the bank, and that is dangerous.'' He added that many Salvadorans were unaware that they could open a bank account without a Social Security number.
 Marilyn Proios, executive director of the Girl Scouts of Suffolk County, sends a Spanish-speaking staff member to the consulate every week to do outreach. ''We have a leader and we are going to start a Daisy troop and Brownies,'' Ms. Proios said. ''We have some older girls interested in it.'' And the first bilingual Girl Scout troop in Suffolk County was formed last month. 
 Mr. Montes Brito said his main mission was simple: By enhancing life for Salvadorans on the Island, he can improve life for people in El Salvador. The Salvadoran community spends $3 billion a year on Long Island, Mr. Montes Brito said, and pays more than $300 million a year in taxes. Additionally, the two million Salvadorans in the United States wire home $2.1 billion a year. 
 ''We only want a better quality of life for our people,'' Mr. Montes Brito said. ''Everything our community needs, we try to provide that.'' 
 To that end, last year Mr. Montes Brito initiated the formation of the Salvadoran American Alliance, an umbrella organization of presidents of Salvadoran groups, including both the Nassau and Suffolk Salvadoran Chambers of Commerce, the Latin American Coalition, the Salvadoran Civic Committee and the American Salvadorans of Long Island. Directors of the alliance visit the consulate daily to help immigrants with legal, immigration, tax and housing advice. 
 The alliance, says its president, Julio C. Hernandez Sr., pushes for scholarships for higher education for Salvadoran youth on the Island, promotes culture and is lobbying elected officials about obtaining drivers' licenses for undocumented immigrants with a taxpayer identification number instead of a Social Security number. 
 Mr. Montes Brito said the Department of Motor Vehicles was losing out on almost $1 million in fees from people who couldn't get a driver's license because they lacked a Social Security number. 
 ''Many people don't have a driver's license so they hit and run,'' Mr. Montes Brito said. ''If they have a driver's license they can be identified.'' 
 Last month, Mr. Montes Brito led a delegation to Albany to talk with legislators about the driver's license issue. Assemblyman Philip Ramos, a Brentwood Democrat, said it was one of the Salvadoran community's first organized lobbying efforts. 
 Mr. Hernandez said gaining political clout was on the agenda. ''Another goal is to get as many people as we can to be naturalized and become citizens and be able to vote,'' he said. 
 Mr. Montes Brito is also encouraging Salvadorans to get involved in the political process. ''Here in Long Island our community has taxation without representation,'' he said. 
 Santiago Reyes, owner of the Restaurant Coma Lapa in Brentwood, is president of the Suffolk Salvadoran Chamber of Commerce, which has 50 businesses. Mr. Reyes is active in the local Republican Party. 
 ''I pray to God every day I want somebody to represent our community,'' said Mr. Reyes, recounting his own American dream story, including a home to call his own, a successful business and a daughter who graduated from college. He predicted that ''in no less than two to three years, a Salvadoran will be running for a good position in the town, the county, the state.'' 
 Mr. Montes Brito said the Salvadoran community had worked hard to satisfy the basic necessities and was ready to assert itself. ''They are going to move into the political arena,'' he said. ''If you watch the other immigrant communities, this is the next step for the Salvadoran community.'' 
 The 2000 census counted 42,500 Salvadorans in Nassau and Suffolk, but Mr. Montes Brito estimated that there are at least 200,000 Salvadorans on the Island, of whom 50,000 have American citizenship, 100,000 have legal status short of citizenship and 50,000 are here illegally. Salvadorans now rival Puerto Ricans as the largest Hispanic group on the Island, he said. 
 He added that about 65 percent of Salvadorans on the Island live in Suffolk County and that about 30 percent of the total reside in Brentwood.
 During his first official meeting with Hispanic leaders on Tuesday, the Suffolk county executive, Steve Levy, said he talked about ''enhancing sensitivity of the county work force to the Hispanic population.'' 
 But asked about illegal Salvadorans, Mr. Levy said he wanted to ''weed out the illegal underground economy that presently exists on the Island. The underground economy is exploitive of the workers themselves and also puts legitimate businesses at a competitive disadvantage.'' 
 ''We should be promoting immigration in a legal fashion and stop ignoring the fact that so many are coming in an undocumented fashion,'' Mr. Levy continued. ''But it is good to see that there is a sense of organization, because that leads to a quicker assimilation into experiencing the American dream.'' 
 Ray Wysolmierski of Farmingville, a leader of a faction of the Sachem Quality of Life group, which organizes regular protests against illegal immigrants, said Salvadorans who had become American citizens could organize and lobby as long as they didn't speak for illegal immigrants.
 ''We certainly don't want to have them speak to a person on behalf of legalizing illegals or anything like that,'' he said. ''Then they are using their citizenship to give credibility to illegality.'' 
 ''If somebody is going to try to advocate on behalf of a person who is going to advocate for illegals, that person should never be allowed to even be a candidate,'' Mr. Wysolmierski said. 
 On Mr. Montes Brito's helping the Salvadorans to organize, Mr. Wysolmierski said the consul general could try to get the community to represent his point of view, but ''the United States government does not accept stuff done by consuls of other countries. They are not making American laws.''
 Last year, Mr. Montes Brito worked to have Sept. 15 declared Central America Day by the Suffolk County Legislature. The consul was one of the organizers of a parade that drew a crowd of 30,000 to celebrate Central American Day and Salvadoran Independence Day in Brentwood. 
 Leopoldo Herrera produces the community's only television program, ''Cita Con El Salvador'' or ''Proud Salvadorans,'' which appears Saturdays at noon on Cablevision in Nassau and Suffolk. The hourlong program is split between features and sports from El Salvador and stories about Salvadorans succeeding in the United States. Mr. Herrera said that because of the consul general, the Salvadoran leadership on the Island is awakening. 
 ''He wants the community to grow with the system, to get to know the system and deal with the United States,'' Mr. Herrera said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: AT THE SALVADORAN CONSULATE -- in Brentwood, Luis Avila gives a thumbprint during passport renewal. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Luis Montes Brito, the Salvadoran consul general, hopes to make the consulate in Brentwood a major resource for Salvadorans on the Island. He speaks with Miguel Angel Cruz and his wife, Emilia, who are planning to retire and return to El Salvador. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); MARRIAGE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EL SALVADOR (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



72 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8A; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 7; BASEBALL PREVIEW 2004

LENGTH: 2698 words

BYLINE: By Murray Chass

 BODY:

THE NATIONAL LEAGUE team capsules were written by Murray Chass. Teams are listed in the predicted order of finish.

N.L. EAST

ATLANTA BRAVES
Bobby Cox, 15th season
2003: 101-61, first place, lost in division series
 Is this the year? Last year was supposed to be, but it wasn't. Several days after the All-Star Game the Braves had a lead in double digits and didn't look back. When the so-called race ended, they had their 12th consecutive division championship.
 But once again the Braves are believed to be vulnerable. Greg Maddux is gone, completing the turnover of the starting rotation. Javy Lopez, the best-hitting catcher in the team's history, is gone. Gary Sheffield, who hit 39 homers and drove in 132 runs last year, is gone too, all victims of the same payroll problems less wealthy teams have.
 Bobby Cox, however, has confounded the experts before, and this year he will try to do it with youngsters like Adam LaRoche, Mark DeRosa and J.D. Drew. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Drew, Eli Marrero, John Thomson, Antonio Alfonseca, Chris Reitsma
 KEY LOSSES -- Maddux, Sheffield, Lopez, Vinny Castilla, Robert Fick, Jason Marquis, Shane Reynolds.
 KEY TO SEASON -- Russ Ortiz and Mike Hampton will have to play the roles of Maddux and Tom Glavine in leading the new corps of starters.

PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES
Larry Bowa, fourth season
2003: 86-76, third place
 Instead of winning the division last year, as many expected, the Phillies finished 15 games behind the Braves. Getting Jim Thome and Kevin Millwood wasn't enough. So this winter they fortified themselves further, obtaining Billy Wagner to replace Jose Mesa as the closer, Tim Worrell and Roberto Hernandez to bolster the bullpen and Eric Milton for the starting rotation.
 They also got themselves a new park, blowing up the old one and hoping their losing experience of the past decade went with it. Pat Burrell hopes his .209 batting average from last year and memories of it went up in smoke, too. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Wagner, Milton, Tim Worrell, Hernandez
 KEY LOSSES -- Mesa, Mike Williams, Brandon Duckworth, Terry Adams
 KEY TO SEASON -- The Phillies need everyone to stay healthy and perform to expectations to slay the beast known as the Braves.

FLORIDA MARLINS
Jack McKeon, second season
2003: 91-71, wild card, won World Series
 The 1997 World Series champion Marlins never got the chance to defend their title. They were dismantled almost before the final out was recorded. These World Series champions have shed some players, too, but the demolishment wasn't nearly as severe.
 The missing are primarily the big run producers: Juan Encarnacion (94 R.B.I.), Derrek Lee (92), Ivan Rodriguez (85). But they retained Mike Lowell (105 R.B.I.). More important, they have held onto their good young pitchers, Josh Beckett, Dontrelle Willis, Brad Penny. 
 But last year they used two closers, Braden Looper and Ugueth Urbina, and both are gone. In their place is Armando Benitez, who throws hard but has a penchant for giving up big home runs. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Benitez, Hee Seop Choi, Darren Oliver
 KEY LOSSES -- Rodriguez, Urbina, Lee, Encarnacion, Mark Redman, Looper
 KEY TO SEASON -- Beckett, Willis and friends will have to be dominant if the Marlins are to have a chance to do what they couldn't do in 1998.

MONTREAL EXPOS
Frank Robinson, third season
2003: 83-79, fourth place
 How long can the Expos trade away their best players and remain a contender for at least part of the season? Vladimir Guerrero and Javier Vazquez are the latest to leave, and the Expos can't expect to be as good without them.
 The middle infielders, Jose Vidro and Orlando Cabrera, could be gone after this season, if not before. The picture remains bleak. 
 They will again play 22 games in Puerto Rico, and their future remains uncertain. They conceivably could be back in Montreal next season, contrary to assurances of baseball officials.
 In the meantime, Frank Robinson will urge his players to ignore everything else and just play the games, winning as many as they can. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Carl Everett, Nick Johnson, Tony Batista
 KEY LOSSES -- Guerrero, Vazquez, Michael Barrett, Orlando Hernandez
 KEY TO SEASON -- The newcomers, Johnson and Everett, have to make up for Guerrero's absent offense and join Vidro and Cabrera in leading the offense.

METS
Art Howe, second season
2003: 66-95, last place
 One of these years the Mets will get it right, but that doesn't mean it will be this year. They just hope the acquisition of Mike Cameron, Kazuo Matsui, Karim Garcia and Braden Looper will do more for them than the addition of Mo Vaughn, Roberto Alomar, Roger Cedeno and Jeromy Burnitz two years ago.
 The defense will be better up the middle with Cameron in center and Matsui and Jose Reyes in the middle infield, though the shortstop and second baseman have not played an inning together this spring. When Vance Wilson catches, it will be even better. But if Wilson is catching, that means Mike Piazza will be playing first base and that won't improve anything. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Matsui, Cameron, Looper, Garcia, Todd Zeile, Shane Spencer, Scott Erickson, Tyler Yates
 KEY LOSSES -- Vaughn, Jay Bell, Tony Clark, Pedro Astacio, Timo Perez
 KEY TO SEASON -- If Tom Glavine makes a vast improvement on his disappointing 9-14 record, he could lead a resurgence, but the Mets will also need help from the weak back end of the rotation.

N.L. CENTRAL

HOUSTON ASTROS
Jimy Williams, third season
2003: 87-75, second place
 There figures to be no more exciting division race than this one. Astros and Cubs. Cubs and Astros. Take your pick. 
 Tied for first with three games to go, the Astros finished a game behind the Cubs last year. The Astros lost two of three to Milwaukee; the Cubs won two of three from Pittsburgh. That's how close it was. The Astros go into this season with two new pitchers by way of New York, Andy Pettitte and Roger Clemens, giving them one of the best starting corps, if not the best, in the majors. They also have starters to spare. They traded the 15-game winner Jeriome Robertson and have Carlos Hernandez and Brandon Duckworth in waiting in case someone gets hurt. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Pettitte, Clemens
 KEY LOSSES -- Billy Wagner, Robertson, Geoff Blum
 KEY TO SEASON -- If Octavio Dotel is effective as Billy Wagner's replacement as closer, the Astros will be right there again.

CHICAGO CUBS
Dusty Baker, second season
2003: 88-74, first place, lost in N.L.C.S.
 Maybe Dusty Baker will make the difference, as he has in the past. His contribution, however he does it, cannot be overlooked.
 Maybe it will be Sammy Sosa. Maybe this will be the year he supplants Barry Bonds as the league's most valuable player.
 Or maybe it will be the pitching rotation, with the addition of Greg Maddux, the mesmerizing veteran, to a staff of hard throwers led by Kerry Wood and Mark Prior. Prior opens the season on the disabled list with an inflamed Achilles' tendon and back spasms. That sort of thing, injury, may be the only thing that keeps the Cubs from a shot at the World Series that they squandered last year. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Maddux, Derrek Lee, Michael Barrett, Todd Walker, LaTroy Hawkins 
 KEY LOSSES -- Eric Karros, Damian Miller, Kenny Lofton, Randall Simon
 KEY TO SEASON -- If the pitchers stay healthy, there's no telling how far the Cubs can go, whether or not they win the division championship.

ST. LOUIS CARDINALS
Tony LaRussa, ninth season
2003: 85-77, third place
 Usually a solid contender, the Cardinals may be slipping. They have some players coming back from injuries (Ray Lankford, Jim Edmonds, Chris Carpenter), and they have some shaky positions (left field, second base).
 They also have Reggie Sanders, who is playing for his seventh different team in seven seasons. That's a lot of apartment hunting. 
 Having traded Tino Martinez to Tampa Bay, they have moved the productive Albert Pujols to first base. Last season Pujols batted .359, hit 43 homers and knocked in 124 runs. He fell four home runs short of leading the league, but he did lead in average, hits, runs, doubles and total bases.
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Jason Marquis, Jeff Suppan, Sanders, Lankford, Tony Womack, Marlon Anderson
 KEY LOSSES -- Martinez, J.D. Drew, Eli Marrero, Fernando Vina, Jeff Fassero
 KEY TO SEASON -- To keep up with the pitching-rich Astros and Cubs, the Cardinals need to keep everyone healthy and productive.

CINCINNATI REDS
Dave Miley, second season
2003: 69-93, fifth place
 The homecoming of Ken Griffey Jr. was not supposed to be like this. One injury after another has kept Griffey from enjoying his return home and helping the Reds go somewhere in the division. At this point, even if Griffey is healthy all season, the Reds are not going anywhere.
 It is difficult to go anywhere without pitching. Danny Graves was moved from the closer's role to the starting rotation last season but is the closer again.
 Brandon Larson was supposed to be back at third base after failing in his first trial last season. (He batted .101 in three visits.) But he has an injured toe and is on the disabled list.
 KEY ADDITION -- Cory Lidle
 KEY LOSSES -- Jose Guillen, Scott Sullivan, Chris Reitsma
 KEY TO SEASON -- If Griffey is healthy, he could inspire the Reds to finish first in the lower half of the division.

PITTSBURGH PIRATES
Lloyd McClendon, fourth season
2003: 75-87, fourth place
 The Pirates and the Brewers are locked in a tight race. Each has played 11 consecutive losing seasons, and now they will fight it out for last place in their 12th consecutive losing seasons. Over the first 11 the Brewers 
 (768-943, .449) lead the Pirates (763-951, .445) by 6 games.
 This year's Pirates are a collection of journeyman players -- Chris Stynes (this is his fifth team in five years), Raul Mondesi (third team in three years) and Randall Simon (he started last season with the Pirates and was traded to the Cubs) -- and the untested youngsters -- outfielders Jason Bay and Tike Redman and infielders Jose Castillo and Bobby Hill. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Stynes, Simon, Rick Reed, Jose Mesa
 KEY LOSSES -- Reggie Sanders, Pokey Reese, Matt Stairs, Jeff Suppan
 KEY TO SEASON -- Teams like the Pirates have to be satisfied with small advances. The goal should be to win more games for the third consecutive season.

MILWAUKEE BREWERS
Ned Yost, second season
2003: 68-94, last place
 Richie Sexson slugged 45 homers and drove in 124 runs for the Brewers last season, but the numbers don't begin to define his value to them. This year's starting lineup does.
 The Brewers traded Sexson to Arizona, and their lineup for the start of this season includes four players and a starting pitcher they received in the trade: three fourths of the infield -- Lyle Overbay, Junior Spivey, Craig Counsell -- catcher Chad Moeller and pitcher Chris Capuano. Pitcher Jorge De La Rosa is the only player in the trade who hasn't won a spot. 
 Maybe someone else's players will help. Their own haven't.
 KEY ADDITIONS Counsell, Spivey, Ben Grieve, Gary Bennett, Adrian Hernandez, Overbay, Moeller, De La Rosa, Capuano
 KEY LOSSES Sexson, Royce Clayton, Glendon Rusch
 KEY TO SEASON Even if the newcomers put a spark into them, the Brewers aren't going very far with their pitching.

N.L. WEST

SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS
Felipe Alou, second season
2003: 100-61, first place, lost in division series
 Three shoulder operations kept closer Robb Nen out of action last season and appear to have him unprepared to start this season on time. Last season Tim Worrell replaced Nen and did a commendable job, gaining 38 saves. But this season Worrell is pitching out of the Phillies' bullpen.
 All right, what about Joe Nathan? He did a terrific job last year as Worrell's setup man. Only problem is Nathan now pitches for the Twins. That leaves Matt Herges as the closer until Nen is ready.
 Most people, though, won't be focusing on the closer. Their attention will be riveted on Barry Bonds, the six-time M.V.P.
 KEY ADDITIONS -- A.J. Pierzynski, Dustan Mohr, Michael Tucker, Brett Tomko
 KEY LOSSES -- Rich Aurilia, Benito Santiago, Sidney Ponson, Worrell, Nathan 
 KEY TO SEASON -- They have to ignore the steroids fuss, and they can't afford to go too long without Jason Schmidt (sore shoulder).

SAN DIEGO PADRES
Bruce Bochy, 10th season
2003: 64-98, last place
 For a team that has won a total of only 130 games the past two years, the Padres look pretty good. A bench deeper than most enhances their appearance. Terrence Long and Jeff Cirillo have been regular starters elsewhere but will now serve as backups. 
 Long, who was Oakland's center fielder, will play behind Ryan Klesko, Jay Payton and Brian Giles. Rey Ordonez was supposed to be on the team but didn't want to play behind a rookie shortstop, Khalil Greene. Cirillo will back up Phil Nevin and Sean Burroughs at the corners.
 David Wells is on hand not to serve as a role model for the young pitchers but an example of how to win. And closer Trevor Hoffman is healthy. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Ramon Hernandez, Payton, Long, Wells, Sterling Hitchcock, Ismael Valdez
 KEY LOSSES -- Mark Kotsay, Jesse Orosco, Gary Matthews Jr., Gary Bennett
 KEY TO SEASON -- If Wells leads and the young pitchers follow, the Padres could be the surprise of the league.

LOS ANGELES DODGERS
Jim Tracy, fourth season
2003: 85-77, second place
 Jim Tracy said it was challenging last year to watch his team allow the fewest runs in the majors but also score the fewest. It also had to be frustrating. That the Dodgers finished second demonstrated the importance of pitching.
 Most of the pitchers are back, but unfortunately so are the hitters. The Dodgers acquired Juan Encarnacion, who drove in 94 runs for Florida, but they were inactive for the most part because they were in the process of being sold. The one pitcher who isn't back is Kevin Brown. In his place is Jeff Weaver, who was a disaster with the Yankees. It doesn't figure to be a good swap.
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Encarnacion, Weaver, Rick White, Jeremy Giambi, Olmedo Saenz
 KEY LOSSES -- Brian Jordan, Brown, Paul Quantrill, Fred McGriff
 KEY TO SEASON -- They have to figure out a different way to score runs from the one they used last season. They can't expect the pitching to be as effective as it was.

ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS
Bob Brenly, fourth season
2003: 84-78, third place
 It was fun while it lasted, having Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling in the starting rotation. They won a World Series a few years ago, which is all the Diamondbacks wanted. But now they have to pay for their economic excesses, and Schilling is gone. Johnson could follow if the team isn't in contention in a few months.
 Shane Reynolds and Steve Sparks won't replace Schilling, but Richie Sexson, who whacked 45 homers and knocked in 124 runs for the Brewers, will provide much needed offensive punch. The Diamondbacks also look forward to a full season from Alex Cintron, their young shortstop, who batted .317 in 117 games last season. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Sexson, Roberto Alomar, Brent Mayne, Reynolds, Sparks 
 KEY LOSSES -- Schilling, Craig Counsell, Junior Spivey, Chad Moeller, Lyle Overbay
 KEY TO SEASON -- It might be time for the hitters to take over from the pitchers and lead the way, but the way could be shaky. 

COLORADO ROCKIES
Clint Hurdle, third season
2003: 74-88, fourth place
 No one can say the Rockies have lost their way because they have never had a way. Once upon a time they won the wild-card spot in the playoffs, but in the last six years, they have finished fourth or fifth and have changed strategies a few times.
 They appeared to be headed in the right direction by developing their own pitchers, but the only home-grown starter is Jason Jennings, who tumbled from a 16-8 record to 12-13. One of the nonnatives is Scott Elarton, a once bright prospect in the Houston organization who has struggled to overcome a shoulder problem. A 4-4 record last year was a start. 
 KEY ADDITIONS -- Vinny Castilla, Jeromy Burnitz, Royce Clayton, Jeff Fassero, Shawn Estes, Joe Kennedy
 KEY LOSSES -- Ronnie Belliard, Juan Uribe, Jay Payton, Chris Stynes, Darren Oliver, Mark Hendrickson
 KEY TO SEASON -- The Rockies keep changing the appearance of their team, and the results are the same.


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (93%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (76%); GEORGIA, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



73 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11; JERSEY FOOTLIGHTS

LENGTH: 654 words

BYLINE: By Margo Nash with Robert Strauss

 BODY:

Remembering a Revolution
 On Feb. 24, 1969, a group of Rutgers students took over Conklin Hall at the Newark campus. They draped a banner from the roof, renamed the building Liberation Hall and demanded greater diversity throughout the university. 
 The action, which lasted 72 hours, was led by the Black Organization of Students. It set in motion events that eventually increased the number of black students and faculty, and created minority-oriented academic programs. 
 Rutgers has recently been honoring the student leaders of the protest with a plaque in Conklin Hall and an exhibition at the Dana Library, ''Student Activism on the Rutgers-Newark Campus: 1968-1972.'' The show commemorates the Conklin Hall takeover in photographs, signs, leaflets, buttons and other memorabilia. It also chronicles the role Rutgers students played in other demonstrations of the era, like the Vietnam Moratorium Day protests in 1969 and 1970.
 Last week Rutgers graduates who took part in some or all of these protests returned to the Newark campus to participate in a symposium that accompanied the opening of the exhibition. 
 The show was curated by Michael Immerso, 54, a cultural historian and 1972 Rutgers graduate who helped lead the Conklin Hall takeover. Mr. Immerso, author of ''Newark's Little Italy: The Vanished First Ward'' (Rutgers University Press, 1997), said the Conklin Hall student occupation showed that a student protest could ''forge social change.''
 Richard L. McCormick, president of Rutgers, commented about the student protests when the plaque at Conklin Hall was put up last February.
 ''Rutgers had not caused the fundamental racial and economic inequalities that characterized American life, but prior to Feb. 24, 1969,'' he said, according to a university transcript of his speech, ''neither had Rutgers done very much to address those inequalities. These young men and women wanted Rutgers to serve them and their communities, too, and they were right.'' The exhibition is on view through April 30. After that, the material in it will become a special collection at the library. Information on the show: (973)353-5222.

After the Play
 ''Hamlet'' has inspired playwrights from Tom Stoppard, whose 1967 play ''Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead'' took a closer look at two minor characters in Shakespeare's play, to Pavel Kohout, whose 1977 ''Poor Murderer'' was about a Russian actor who goes mad playing Hamlet.
 But Lee Blessing, head of the playwriting program at the Mason Gross School of the Arts at Rutgers in New Brunswick, says the only sequel to ''Hamlet'' is his widely produced 1991 play ''Fortinbras.'' The dark comic work gets its title from the Prince of Norway, who is the last character to speak in ''Hamlet.''
 ''Fortinbras'' is being produced by the Rutgers Theater Company at the Crossroads Theater in New Brunswick from Friday through April 18. Mr. Blessing said he was delighted about the production and hoped it would be an opportunity for his students ''to know me better,'' and to come away saying, ''Oh yeah, I guess he can write.'' Information: (732)932-7511.

An Early Great
 A Honus Wagner baseball card, said to be among the most valuable of that kind of collectible, is the focus of a TNT movie, ''The Winning Season,'' making its premiere tonight at 8. The movie, a story of a boy's flight back in time to the 1909 World Series to befriend Mr. Wagner, one of baseball's greats, is based on ''Honus & Me,'' by Dan Gutman, of Haddonfield. Mr. Gutman has written a series of novels for teenagers, many on sports subjects. They include ''The Kid Who Became President'' and ''Babe & Me.''
 ''The Winning Season'' stars Matthew Modine as Mr. Wagner and Kristen Davis (''Sex and the City'') as his love interest. It is directed by John Kent Harrison. Shawn Hatosy plays the teenager who gets to meet his hero and find the secret of the rare baseball card. Margo Nash with Robert Strauss


CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Jersey Footlights column on April 4 about an exhibition at Rutgers University commemorating the 1969 student takeover of Conklin Hall misstated the involvement of Michael Immerso, a 1972 Rutgers graduate who is the curator of the exhibition. Mr. Immerso helped organize a vigil in support of the students; he did not help lead the takeover. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (87%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); THEATER (76%); LIBRARIES (75%); WRITERS (75%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



74 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3; TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Where Travelers Go To Book Online

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
WHILE online travel agencies like Expedia, Travelocity and Orbitz have marketed extensively to consumers in the past year, many Internet bookers have remained loyal to the individual Web sites of their favorite airlines, hotels and car rental agencies, according to PhoCusWright, a travel industry research and consulting firm. Other firms, like Forrester Research and ComScore Networks, have recorded similar findings. But some analysts believe the supplier sites still have far to go to achieve the quality of the e-travel agencies. 
 Of the roughly $39 billion spent online by leisure travelers last year, half went to the Web sites of individual travel suppliers, according to PhoCusWright, with the biggest three e-travel agencies garnering the rest. The supplier-agency split has remained steady over the past two years, said Lorraine Sileo, an analyst with PhoCusWright. 
 Overall, PhoCusWright says that 26 percent of airline industry sales in 2003 took place online, with 58 percent of those purchases made on the airlines' own sites. Twenty-five percent of all rental car bookings were made online, with 57 percent coming from the rental agency sites. Thirteen percent of all hotel bookings in 2003 came through the Web -- half through the hoteliers' sites.
 Even though the suppliers attract far fewer monthly visitors (for example, in January, Orbitz received 16.15 million visitors compared with 6.4 million at Southwest.com, the most popular airline site, according to ComScore Media Metrix, an Internet research firm), they are competing well for traveler dollars, Ms. Sileo said. ''The push and pull between the online travel agencies and the suppliers' sites is a healthy thing,'' Ms. Sileo said. ''It means the agencies aren't going away, and the suppliers can also reap the rewards of being online. And for both of them, the sites just get better and better.''
 While that may be true, the suppliers' sites could still do a much better job, according to a January study by the market research firm Shelley Taylor & Associates. The firm reviewed 46 travel Web sites in the United States and abroad, and judged them based on a number of criteria, such as how many clicks it takes to complete certain tasks like booking and local restaurant recommendations and general travel tips for a given area, for instance. The firm found that all the sites are ''guilty of failing to deliver satisfying travel experiences.''
 Shelley Taylor, the report's author, said the popularity of supplier sites belied their quality -- or lack thereof. ''With travel agents, you'd get a packet for your trip, with tickets and maps, and then they'd tell you about great restaurants to visit,'' she said. ''Travel sites are not approximating what you can get in the bricks-and-mortar world.'' She noted that Southwest ranked 11th of 13 airline sites tested. Among other things, she said Southwest offered ''very few travel resources'' like destination guides, maps and so on that sites like Expedia.com include. Ms. Taylor also said that because Southwest.com did not have a booking engine on the home page, users must waste clicks searching for it.
 Ms. Taylor's rankings prompted a sharp defense from Southwest, whose Web site has been recognized for above-average performance by other reviewers. Anne Murray, Southwest's senior director of interactive marketing, said the company chose not to include a booking engine on the home page, instead showing a photo of Southwest employees. 
 ''I've had people tell us we're nuts for doing that, but we want to represent the faces of our company first, before we say 'Go buy something,''' Ms. Murray said.
 Ms. Murray agreed with Ms. Taylor's contention that the Web site offers less-intensive destination information than full-service travel agency sites. ''But we're more focused on what our customers want to see next,'' she said. ''Very few customers are asking for things like weather, maps and guides. So many other sites do that.''
 Apart from the Southwest.com criticism, the report offered some good news for American Internet users, in that the top five travel sites were United States based. Expedia topped the rankings, followed by Travelocity, Hilton.com, Orbitz and Continental.com.
 ''We generally chose better sites as part of our sample,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''So being the worst of the best does not mean the worst. It simply means that the entire industry has a very long way to go.''




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); WEB SITES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); SALES FIGURES (70%); WRITERS (60%) 

COMPANY: COMSCORE INC (58%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Expedia Inc; Travelocity; Orbitz Inc

TICKER: SCOR (NASDAQ) (58%); OWW (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



75 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MURRAY HILL

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Filling in the Bald Spots of a Historic District

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
They designated the area a historic district, and then they went back at it again.
 To the relief of a vocal crowd of residents, the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission voted unanimously last week to expand the Murray Hill Historic District in the East 30's, turning what has been an archipelago of preservation into a solid historic zone characterized by low-rise 19th-century row houses.
 The vote, greeted by a chorus of ''thank you's,'' came a little more than two years after the commission first bestowed the historic designation on three chunks of the neighborhood. Preservationists and members of the Murray Hill Neighborhood Association, who feared that this original layout of the historic zone would permit high-rise development in the undesignated sections, were delighted. 
 Although the change still requires approval of the City Planning Commission and the City Council, the day had its drama. Kenneth Turrisi, a Long Island-based architect who owns three adjacent buildings on East 36th Street -- Nos. 126, 128 and 130 -- that would be added to the district, said at the meeting that the expansion would prevent him from building on the land and cause him ''severe economic hardship.'' 
 Mr. Turrisi, who bought two of the lots after they were left out of the original historic district, had twice applied to the Buildings Department to put up a 14-story building on the site, but was denied. He called the expansion ''the Murray Hill neighborhood's thinly veiled attempt to use the landmarks commission to protect their views,'' and his lawyer, Howard Zipser, argued that the buildings showed little historic character. 
 In contrast, supporters of the expanded historic district called it an oasis among Midtown's high-rises. The neighborhood, which lies just west of the entrance to the Queens-Midtown Tunnel, greets commuters in the morning and says goodnight in the evening, they said. 
 Before voting to approve the plan, the commission's members said the expansion protected the character of a unique neighborhood, giving the district a needed cohesion. Neighborhood association members cheered, and Mr. Turrisi left quietly. JAKE MOONEY


GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan highlighting proposed site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (94%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); LAWYERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



76 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-16

Madrid Suspects Die in Blast
Three men believed to be responsible for the Madrid train bombings blew themselves up inside an apartment house in Leganes, a working-class district of Madrid, as the police prepared to assault the building Saturday night, officials said. One officer was killed and at least 11 others were wounded. 1

Arafat Responds to Sharon
The Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, said that he was not troubled by warnings from Israel that it could act against him. Meanwhile, Hamas claimed responsibility for the gunman who killed an Israeli man at a West Bank settlement. 12

Syria Jails Rights Advocates
A Syrian military court sentenced 14 human rights advocates to jail for belonging to a banned group after they attended a lecture condemning the country's emergency law. 3

Thousands March in Baghdad
Thousands of supporters of Iraq's virulently anti-American Shiite cleric, Moqtada Sadr, left, marched through the streets of Baghdad in a show of strength punctuated by anti-occupation speeches. 16

Brazil Leader's Backing Wanes
A widening corruption scandal that began in mid-February in Brazil has all but immobilized the government of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, whose support was already eroding because of the weak performance of the economy during his first year in office. 12

The road that stretches from the Brazilian border and climbs into the heart of Peru could be paved, a plan its proponents are calling South America's infrastructure project of the century. It would mean the continent's first trans-oceanic highway linking the two countries. 16

Sri Lanka Elections Uncertain
The alliance headed by President Chandrika Kumaratunga of Sri Lanka, left, appeared headed for victory after parliamentary elections, but officials said that final results would be delayed by about a week because of the need to repeat the vote in two districts. 4

South Korean Party's Struggle
South Korea's conservatives are courting women and young voters for the crucial parliamentary elections on April 15. 14

OBITUARIES 42

NATIONAL 18-31

Job Records Altered
The illegal doctoring of hourly employees' time records is more prevalent than most Americans believe, experts on compensation say. The practice, commonly called shaving time, has spurred a growing number of lawsuits and settlements. 1

More Hmong to United States
As many as 15,000 Hmong refugees will arrive in the United States this summer. They have been living in Thailand for decades since being driven from their mountain homelands in Laos in the waning days of the war in Southeast Asia. 18

Move to End Ban on Tolls
The White House wants to relax the taboo on highway tolls, and the House of Representatives went along by passing a highway bill that encourages new express toll lanes. 18

NEW YORK/REGION 33-40

Statue's Reopening Delayed
The Statue of Liberty, closed after the Sept. 11 attacks, is scheduled to be reopened this summer. But interviews show it could have been reopened much earlier. 1

New Doubts in '88 Murder Case
New evidence has raised doubts in the case of Mark Tankleff, who is imprisoned for 50 years to life for the murder of his parents. He has proclaimed his innocence. 33

Chess 41
Weather 43
Cong. Vote 40


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (86%); TERRORISM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); HAMAS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); SENTENCING (70%); REFUGEES (70%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (67%); SCANDALS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (53%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (95%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SPAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SYRIA (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); IRAQ (91%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



77 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 35; ART

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: In the Art Business, 44,210 Points Makes Polke a Top Painter

BYLINE: By ANDRAS SZANTO. 
Andras Szanto is deputy director of the National Arts Journalism Program at Columbia University.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
THE first version of art history is written by dealers. They work on the front lines, making bets on artists and objects long before collectors, critics and curators decide what's truly valuable. 
 To offer a glimpse into this rarefied world, the Getty Research Institute has mounted a small but engrossing exhibit titled ''The Business of Art: Evidence From the Art Market.'' Consisting of 81 documents spanning 450 years, the show has no intention of covering its subject encyclopedically. Instead, the curators, Maria L. Gilbert and Mark Henderson, have assembled an eclectic array of ephemera from the Getty's archives to illustrate how values have been assigned to art through history.
 Among the items is a 1939 exclusive contract between the Parisian dealer Ambroise Vollard and the painter Georges Rouault; a ledger of ''sales,'' ''bargains'' and ''deals'' by a 19th-century British collector who invented the steel pen nib; a haunting set of letters documenting how the Nazis forced sales by an art dealer in The Hague; and a colorful 1982 German board game in which players compete for art-world recognition, with the winner receiving this guidance: ''From now on you can afford (practically) anything, your glory seems to be secured, your posthumous glory is merely a question of your inevitable demise (probably soon).'' 
 For the Research Institute, housed in a circular building adjacent to the Getty Museum, the show is an attempt to foster more scholarly interest in the social dynamics of art. It's part of a yearlong project drawing on the work of resident scholars, a conference on art-dealing and a new research partnership on the history of collecting with the University of Southern California.
 ''We see this as part of the total fabric of understanding the history of art,'' said Tom Crow, director of the Research Institute. To focus only on artists and masterpieces, he said, would be ''like listening to one side of a telephone conversation.'' As the documents show, in addition to dealers, collectors, artists and critics have also been known to take an active part in the business side of art.
 The profession of art dealing emerged only after the mid-18th century; the commercial art gallery system is barely a century old. Earlier, artists often served as their own agents. At first, they ''charged a fixed rate for the job, as if they were making a pair of shoes,'' Gerald Reitlinger wrote in his classic work, ''The Economics of Taste.'' Eventually, a new idea arose -- that each work of art is unique -- and with it, a new way of doing business.
 A testament to that development is a parched letter with ornate calligraphy, dated 1628, by the Bolognese painter Guido Reni, appealing to his ''most illustrious and honorable patron'' that ''when paintings are of a caliber that they can be given to noble lords as gifts,'' they merit a special price that should reflect ''respect for the artist.'' Reni concludes, ''My paintings -- praise God -- are partially in this category and merit this type of payment.''
 Even after dealers were firmly established, artists still looked after their own financial interests. In 1955, Alexander Calder wrote a letter to a collector for whom he was making a mobile: ''But we said nothing about the price. What do you have in mind?''
 The archival sources present a prosaic view of art history in which hustle and flattery mingle with high-minded aesthetics. An 1810 note by the sculptor Antonio Canova to Napoleon fawns, ''I went to the feet of Your Majesty to offer the homage of my gratitude.'' In 1879 Paul Gauguin, then a 31-year-old stockbroker, relays a business tip to his friend Camille Pissarro about a colleague who might buy two paintings. Gauguin warns that the pictures should be ''as pretty as possible'' because the man ''knows nothing at all about art.'' 
 Even critics got into the fray. In 1963, Clement Greenberg typed a letter to the London dealer John Kasmin giving detailed instructions on how to display Jules Olitski's Color Field paintings, which he had written about favorably in Art International. Greenberg offered advice on everything from the proper framing to the choice of paint for the gallery walls and even scribbled drawings to press his case.
 It is nevertheless the dealers who get the star treatment in this show. Several prime figures of 19th- and 20th-century art history appear -- among them, Peggy Guggenheim and Leo Castelli -- but the leading role fittingly goes to Joseph Duveen, a turn-of-the-century art merchant and lifestyle guru for Gilded Age socialites like the Fricks, the Morgans and the Huntingtons.
 The British-born Duveen was a genius at trading on the aspirations and insecurities of his American clients. He ran a full-service operation. For the right price, he could procure all the trappings for a ready-made Old World aristocratic household, from paintings and sculptures to tapestries and clocks. Working with a Parisian design firm, he undertook extravagant decoration projects like Mrs. Eleanor Elkins Widener Rice's New York town house, where the drawing-room furnishings alone cost $2 million in 1925 (about $20 million today).
 Ambitious, methodical and well connected, Duveen hired an international network of spies and runners to track down clients and artworks for sale. Some of his cloak-and-dagger antics may seem outmoded, but his fingerprints remain all over America's greatest art collections.
 The exhibition is a coming-out party for the recently cataloged Duveen archive, a vast trove of information about the backstage operations of the international art trade. In the Getty's care since 1998, its contents have never been presented to the public. Among the gems is a book bearing the title, ''Things Seen: Homes of Fine Goods.'' It contains typed and handwritten reports used by Duveen's associates -- obtained who knows how -- listing every valuable object inside certain British aristocratic homes.
 The most eye-opening section of the exhibit is a set of documents laying bare Duveen's business dealings with Bernard Berenson, the Renaissance scholar and connoisseur who authenticated Italian old master paintings for Duveen and, in return, received a 10 percent commission (later upgraded to 25 percent), and a retainer. Displayed here is a 1928 contract reaffirming their secret agreement, along with an ''attestation album'' -- a collection of photographic reproductions of Italian paintings, accompanied by Berenson's signed attributions -- which Duveen occasionally presented to clients after a sale.
 Recent efforts to demystify artists' reputations, and their investment potential, by quantitative analysis make up the last section of the Getty show. Among others, it features the charts and computations of Willi Bongard, a maverick German economist whose Kunstkompass newsletter, edited since his death by his widow, has been tracking artists more or less like stocks for three decades. Bongard's index of art-world fame assigns numerical values to various indicators of success -- for example, 800 points for an A-list museum show, 100 points for reviews in certain arts publications. (The top-ranked artist in 2003 was Sigmar Polke, with a score of 44,210.) The annually published results allow art-market speculators to forecast the earnings potential of today's stars. 
 Those calculations should be taken with a grain of salt, of course. As the exhibition makes plain, no amount of research can explain why some artworks fetch millions while most remain worthless. In the words of the economist Michael Hutter, one of the scholars exploring the practical side of art at the Getty, ''You will always have prices and new directions, but what you can't take out is the fabricated mystery that only a very few individuals have the secret knowledge to produce.''

'The Business of Art'
Getty Research Institute Exhibition Gallery, Los Angeles. Through June 13.


GRAPHIC: Photos: From ''The Business of Art'': a 1955 letter from Alexander Calder, asking a collector what price he has in mind, top left
Robert Rauschenberg flanked by the gallery owners Beatrice Monti and Leo Castelli in Venice in 1964, above
the Duveen Brothers storeroom in New York, circa 1920. (Photos by 2003 Estate of Alexander Calder/ARS, New York [far left]
Ugo Mulas Estate [above]
 Getty Research Institute [below])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); BOARD GAMES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (55%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (86%); NETHERLANDS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



78 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3; IN BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: A Boomlet in the Rental Market

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
NEW buildings full of apartments are sprouting all over the county, but perhaps nowhere so visibly as here. Cranes rise over the downtown, as the developer Louis R. Cappelli and others build residential towers in the city's heart, continuing what some have called a huge boom in rental housing construction in Westchester.
 As recently as last year, the owners of these new rental units had been concerned that filling them would be a problem. But today, while the picture is not universally rosy, the rental market seems to be relatively strong, bolstered by a generally tight supply of housing in the county, which has pushed house prices up.
 Next to the Metro-North train station here at Bank Street Commons, which has 500 apartments in two towers, units have been moving fairly well, said Peter Gilpatric, senior vice president for LCOR, the developer. More than half of the apartments have been rented in the last year, with one-bedrooms going for about $1,700 and up and two-bedroom rents starting about $2,500, he said. And while some observers might note that the building could be also described as half empty, Mr. Gilpatric said that however one described it, there were still a sufficient number of tenants to meet LCOR's goals. 
 Last spring, about 26 new apartment leases were being signed a month; since Jan. 1 of this year, that number has increased to more than 35 a month, Mr. Gilpatric said. At Clayton Park, another new luxury apartment complex in this city, Clay Fowler, a principal for Clayton Park Development in Stamford, Conn., said: ''Leasing has met our midlevel expectation. After 9/11 and the economic downturn, we may have readjusted expectations, but we're still more than surviving.''
 About 60 percent of the 260 for-rent studios, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments have been leased, he said.
 Nicholas Wolff, the president of Century 21 Wolff, which deals primarily in sales, agreed that the rental market is doing better than expected. ''Things may not be phenomenal with rentals, but we were very, very nervous that there would be too much inventory and not enough demand,'' he said. ''That isn't the case.''
 Apartment developers reported that while they were offering incentives sometimes, they were not doing it regularly. 
 Westchester's fairly strong rental market appears to be an anomaly compared to the rest of the nation, said Paul Emrath, a housing policy economist for the National Association of Home Builders, a trade organization in Washington. 
 The vacancy rate for rentals in an area including Westchester and New York City, as well as Rockland County and Richmond County on Staten Island, but not on Long Island or in New Jersey, was 4.4 percent in 2003, Mr. Emrath said. For the rest of the country, the vacancy rate for rentals was 9.8 percent, the economist said. Only the Los Angeles region, with a 3.2 percent rate, fared better. 
 There are a number of reasons for this. For one, developers of luxury apartments in Westchester are able to tap the demographics they need. At Bank Street Commons, the largest group of renters includes affluent single men in their 50's, said Karyn Smith, the development's property manager. The other two largest groups are single professionals in their late 20's and 30's and young married professionals. Some work in Manhattan, and others are employed in White Plains or Stamford. Some have moved out of the city, while others have moved from houses or apartments elsewhere in the county, Ms. Smith said.
 The median household income for Westchester was $63,582 in 1999, according to the United States Census Bureau's most recent figures. For the nation, the median was $41,494, the figures showed. Unemployment in Westchester was 4.6 percent in February of this year, compared with 6 percent for the nation and 6.9 percent for New York State, figures from the state show.
 NATIONALLY and locally the clamor has been for home ownership, as opposed to rentals. The nation's rental market, according to David Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders, has been hurt by low interest rates that have prompted people to buy homes if they can rather than renting, plus a weak job market, which in turned has retarded the formation of new families, the group that often rents before buying a home. In Westchester, however, there has been an added wrinkle, said P. Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive officer of the Westchester County Board of Realtors in White Plains. The for-sale housing market locally ''is fiercely expensive, and there's not that much available,'' he said. Mr. Mercurio could not confirm reports that the rental market was faring better than expected, because the Board of Realtors has limited data on rentals. ''My sense is that the rental market is slower, although that's just a feeling,'' he said.
 The sentiments of Jonathan and Cindy Frieder, tenants at Bank Street Commons, suggest that the state of the for-sale market is a big factor. 
 Mr. Frieder, a technology consultant who works in Manhattan, said: ''I'm certainly not going to pay half a million dollars for a three-bedroom fixer-upper.'' 
 Last year ''may have been a softening year, but it wasn't a devastating one,'' said Paul Crisalli, senior vice president for JPI Apartment Development, a Texas-based company that is building 281 apartments along Mamaroneck Avenue called the Residences at Jefferson. ''There's a misconception out there about what's going on.'' 
 Mr. Crisalli said he is optimistic that his apartments, when they go on the market later this year, will also rent well. JPI has not yet set prices for the apartments.
 Several blocks away along Mamaroneck Ave., the main drag here, Mr. Cappelli, the president of Cappelli Enterprises, is similarly banking on the availability of a well-heeled rental population. 
 Mr. Cappelli has just begun renting luxury apartments in a 311-unit tower called One City Place. His market: young singles, working couples, divorced people and empty-nesters, said Marge Schneider, a vice president for Cappelli Enterprises.
 One couple, empty-nesters with grandchildren in Westchester, rented an apartment at One City Place sight unseen, Ms. Schneider said. ''They wanted a place where they can lock the door and not worry when they're not here,'' she said. Apartments at One City Place range from about $1,400 to more than $4,000, with one of the highest-priced ones a three-bedroom on the 29th floor with a 20-foot-by-30-foot terrace that offers views of the Long Island Sound. 
 Aware also that the sales market is stronger than the rental market, Mr. Cappelli recently scaled back the number of rental units planned for City Center. Rather than build 625 rental apartments in two 32-story towers, Mr. Cappelli decided to build 311 rental units in one tower, and 211 condominiums in the second. A 4,000-square foot, single-story building next to City Center was sold to Mr. Cappelli in mid-February, said Joshua Makanoff, who owned a 50 percent in the building. He would not disclose the sale price of the building, which contains three small shops, including Mr. Makanoff's book store, Main Street Book Shop.
 Elsewhere in the county, the luxury rental market appears to be solid. At Scarsdale Commons, 15 of the 42 apartments starting at $2,700 and going up to $3,700, have been spoken for, even before the advertising campaign has begun, said Joyce Bonhag, director of marketing for the developers, Garson Brothers Development of Bronxville. On Yonkers's waterfront, the 266-unit Hudson Park is being built by the Stamford-based Collins Enterprises. Arthur Collins, a principal in the development and management company, reported that about 75 percent of the first tower and 50 percent of the second are leased in the apartment buildings that opened last year.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Last year ''may have been a softening year, but it wasn't a devastating one,'' says Paul Crisalli, senior vice president for JPI Apartment Development, a Texas-based company that is building 281 apartments along Mamaroneck Avenue called the Residences at Jefferson, above. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



79 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5; POLITICS

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Breaking Tradition, 2 Democrats Win Pelham Manor Board Seats

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

DATELINE: PELHAM MANOR 

 BODY:
IN this village's 113-year history, a Democrat has never been elected to serve as a trustee or mayor, the local wisdom goes. (There was one pesky Democrat who was appointed to serve the town around the turn of the century, local Democratic leaders say.) 
 No Democrats were elected, that is, until just a few weeks ago, when two were voted in to the five-member board of trustees. They will be sworn in tomorrow night. 
 The election March 16 has been the talk of the town, with about a third of the registered voters turning out in a snowstorm to vote just for trustees. Afterward, some residents cheered for the change, while others bemoaned the defeat of Lorri Gorman, who had served on town boards and with the trustees for a total of 12 years and was soon to be in line for the mayoralty. 
 Pelham Manor politics have long been guided by the village's ''ladder system,'' which started aspiring office-holders from their first rung of public service, on the planning and zoning boards or in the position of town attorney, and then moved them up the rungs, through the board of trustees and on to mayor. This progressed smoothly, without much need for the electorate, provided everyone on the rungs agreed to be a Republican. (There were two exceptions in recent years: a person with no political affiliation was appointed to the planning board, as was a Democrat, Ms. Gorman said.)
 The two victorious Democrats, Timothy P. Fisher, 56, a tax lawyer, and Steven Flanders, 62, the former circuit executive of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, defeated Ms. Gorman and Val Taubner, who had served on the board of trustees for a year. 
 But Mr. Fisher noted that the Democrats won by only about 40 votes each. 
 ''A number of new residents have moved in who are not necessarily tied in to any group of people,'' he said, explaining the victory. ''They weren't committed to a system that's been around for a hundred years.''
 There are a number of other possible explanations for their success. In recent years more Democrats in this square-mile village have been willing to run for office, which was not always the case. (This was Mr. Flanders's third try, for example.) The victory has also been attributed to the growing number of Democrats in town, the qualifications of the two winning candidates, the hard work of the candidates' campaign organizations and voters' desire for change -- not to mention the suggestion that one component of the vote was simply a protest against ever-rising taxes that somehow managed to make history in this small village that borders on the north Bronx. 
 At the Four Corners shopping area, at Pelhamdale Avenue and Boston Post Road, opinions about the election were mixed a week or so after the election. 
 ''I'm really surprised Lorri Gorman lost,'' said Rita McLaughlin, a resident. ''She's done a lot for the town, and it was a disappointment that she lost.''
 Another resident, Carol Ipsen, who worked on the Democratic campaign, said she believed Mr. Fisher and Mr. Flanders would work for a more democratic system, ''not to destroy but restore.'' 
 But Ms. Gorman, who said she had no plans to run in any future elections, defended the system as a way to pick existing community leaders and train them in how the government runs.
 ''By the time you get to be mayor, you have had your hands in every aspect of management of the village, and each step of the way increases your depth and breadth of knowledge,'' she said.
 She said the local governments in Scarsdale and Rye Brook also did not use national party affiliations in their local elections. 
 Of the former mayors still living around Pelham, half were actually Democrats who had switched parties, Ms. Gorman said, adding that she did not know how many had switched back.
 But Jennifer Ryan Safsel, the chairwoman of the village Democrats, remembers moving here seven years ago and hoping to join the planning board. ''I thought I moved to a more progressive state,'' she said, remembering the requirement to drop her national party affiliation. 
 As for the future of the ladder system, ''there will never again be anyone who changes his or her registration to serve in the ladder system,'' Mr. Flanders predicted, adding that for the first time in a very long time, there would likely be a Democratic candidate for mayor in the next election.
 Ms. Safsel said now that Democrats see a victory is possible, more of them will consider running for office. Mr. Flanders said the ladder system attracted young people who would work hard and move up through the ranks. 
 George Latimer, a county legislator and chairman of the Westchester County Democratic Committee, said one of the new trustees' tasks would be addressing one of the voters' most pressing concerns, high local taxes. ''It takes people who have been out of office to question the assumptions,'' especially in the municipal budget, he said. ''They are much less wedded to the status quo. They didn't create those sets of structures, and are more motivated to challenge them and find economies.''
 Ms. Gorman noted that the trustees had kept annual budget increases down to 3 percent a year for the last five years, and had recently made difficult decisions resulting in $150,000 in budget cuts. 
 Hard work is ahead for the new trustees, Mr. Latimer predicted. ''Having a two-party system doesn't mean nirvana comes the next day,'' he said. ''Now the Democrats have to prove they'll be capable in public office.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Timothy P. Fisher, Democrat, was elected a trustee. (Photo by Monika Graff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); TAX CONSULTING (71%); LAWYERS (71%); TAX LAW (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); ZONING (67%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



80 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Novelist Helps a Chechen Hit the Books in America

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ALFRED, N.Y., March 31 

 BODY:
The story of friendship between two families connected to this small college town includes a war, a spy novelist, an aspiring student, terror, bravery and an international journey.
 It begins in 1993, when Robert Littell, an American writer living in France, refused to allow his oldest son, Jonathan, then 25, to accompany him and other volunteers taking medical supplies to a Croatian camp for Bosnian refugees.
 The younger Mr. Littell was furious. He packed a bag and left his father's home, eventually finding an office for Action Against Hunger in Split, Croatia. He walked in and demanded a job. 
 The Frenchman in the office told the family later that he had been flabbergasted -- partly because Mr. Littell was wearing a suit in a war zone, and partly because of the young man's audacity. But he liked audacity, and hired him. 
 Jonathan Littell then began a life that might have been dreamed up by his father, whose last novel, ''The Company,'' has been sold to Columbia Pictures for movie rights. He traveled throughout Bosnia, and later the Russian republic of Chechnya, taking food to trapped people, and once became trapped himself in a basement in Grozny, the capital, during a Russian attack. 
 In 1999, amid new violence in Chechnya, Jonathan Littell went to neighboring Ingushetia to set up a field office for Action Against Hunger. There he met with Adam Susarov, a Muslim refugee whose family had been continually displaced by Russian-Chechen wars. In him, Mr. Littell found an able security officer and trusted friend.
 The two organized relief missions throughout Chechnya. They knew how to talk their way past border guards and evade local thugs.
 By January 2001, Mr. Littell had enough, and he decided to leave Action Against Hunger. He was two weeks from being replaced when he and his friend Mr. Susarov helped organize a trip with Doctors Without Borders to bring supplies to a hospital south of Grozny. The head doctor warned them it wasn't safe there and agreed to accompany them down back roads to the border. The doctor got in the first car, and Mr. Susarov and Mr. Littell rode in the second. Kenny Gluck of Brooklyn, the regional director of Doctors Without Borders, was in the third car. A fourth driver brought up the rear.
 En route, three gunmen ambushed the convoy. Chechnya had a history of kidnappings, and Americans were particularly prized. Some foreigners had been held for ransom and released. Some had been beheaded. ''Uezhaem!'' said Mr. Littell, speaking Russian for ''Let's go!''
 Mr. Susarov slammed the car back into Mr. Gluck's, then darted forward through a spray of bullets, around the gunmen, his car straddling the ridge of an embankment as they fled.
 Bullets struck Mr. Littell's seat and a tire. Shrapnel sliced an artery in his left temple. But Mr. Littell and Mr. Susarov had escaped. Mr. Gluck was captured and held for nearly a month.
 Jonathan Littell was safe, but his father couldn't help but think he would feel the same terror and anguish as the family of Mr. Gluck, had it not been for the bravery of Mr. Susarov.
 ''As time developed, I said, 'Jon, what can we do for Adam? He risked his life for you.''' 
 They decided to honor Adam Susarov's dream of seeing his oldest son, Akhdan, attend an American university.
 From the beginning, Robert Littell thought of his alma mater, Alfred University, tucked in the foothills of the Allegheny Mountains. He contacted his brother, Alan Littell, who lives near the college, from which he had also graduated and where he worked at as a public relations officer.
 The college president, Charles M. Edmondson, easily remembered Robert Littell. He had read a galley copy of Mr. Littell's last book, offering some suggestions, and was intrigued by idea of helping Akhdan attend Alfred. ''What's more symmetrical than repaying the son of someone who helped your son?'' he asked.
 The Littells paid for Akhdan's English tutors, and agreed to cover all of his living expenses. His grades were high enough to earn a full academic scholarship.
 Then came the task of convincing the United States to grant a visa to the young Muslim for undergraduate study in the wake of Sept. 11. ''Nothing was easy about it,'' Jonathan Littell said in a phone interview. ''Yes, this was for Adam. But it was more than that. I handed out flour and sugar, and that helped people. But it didn't change their lives. This was a chance to change one person's life, so he'd have an opportunity that he wouldn't have had.''
 Late last year, the United States granted Akhdan, now 21, a visa. He flew here in time for the winter semester and is studying biology, English and economics. His future career is uncertain, though he knows he wants to help rebuild Chechnya, and an American degree will help him. 
 Like any freshmen, he's learning to navigate his way, not just around campus but through American culture. Co-ed dorms were a shock; expressions like ''How are you doing?'' a puzzlement. He's made some friends, including some who speak Russian, and he calls home once a week. ''He always asks me about my grades, my health, the Littell family,'' Akhdan said of his father. ''In my culture, we don't talk about feelings, but I know he's happy.''
 To help thank the university, Robert Littell flew from France to conduct a writer-in-residence workshop at Alfred this week. 
 When he wasn't in class, he was usually with Akhdan, delighting in him as if he were his own son.
 He hasn't met Adam Susarov, though he longs to. ''He risked his life to save my son, and he succeeded,'' Robert Littell said. ''There is no way I could repay that. The day we meet, I will embrace him.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Littell, an author, with Akhdan Susarov on the campus of Alfred University in western New York. Mr. Littell helped Mr. Susarov come from Chechnya. (Photo by Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)
 Jonathan Littell was wounded in an ambush in Chechnya while aiding a medical relief mission. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); WRITERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); REFUGEES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); SHOOTINGS (87%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (84%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ACTION AGAINST HUNGER (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CROATIA (91%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



81 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW WORLD OF CUT-RATE FARES

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ZOEPF. 
KATHERINE ZOEPF is a graduate student at the London School of Economics.

 BODY:
ON a recent Saturday morning, an eager young man patrolled the Ryanair check-in lines at Stansted Airport, 34 miles northeast of London, with a clipboard and an amazing offer: sign up for a new credit card, and receive a free one-way return ticket from anywhere in Europe. He wasn't getting any takers. ''Nah, mate,'' one traveler remarked, ''s'only about 3 quid to get back anyway.''
 This is the brave new world of low-cost flying. Since 1997, when the European Union fully deregulated air travel within its borders, carriers like Ryanair, EasyJet and their imitators have been leading a race to the bottom in air ticket pricing, forcing European national carriers to cut costs and lower their ticket prices as well. Over the past several years, the slashed prices have transformed the way Europeans, and particularly those who live near the hubs of the new budget airlines, think about air travel. In Britain these days, brides-to-be on tight budgets may take gaggles of friends to Italy for their hen parties, middle-income families can contemplate buying vacation cottages in France or Spain, and footloose travelers whisk across a continent for about the same price as a bus ticket to the next town.
 Rick Steves, the author of the ''Europe Through the Back Door'' series of travel guides, said that Americans traveling in Europe had been far more cautious than Europeans in embracing the new air-travel mind-set. 
 This may be, as Mr. Steves suggests, because Americans' short vacations don't give them the flexibility to seek out the best fares. Or it may be that Americans don't realize just how low the fares can go. Ryanair tickets from Barcelona to Paris in early April were recently selling for $9.35, at $1.90 to the pound, and SkyEurope tickets from Amsterdam to Budapest in early April were $32, at $1.25 to the euro. 
 Budget airlines keep their costs so very low by turning their planes around again quickly, by requiring travelers to buy online, and by flying into smaller regional airports (though the European Commission declared last month that a deal struck by Ryanair with one of these ''secondary'' airports, Brussels' Charleroi, was illegal, leading some to worry that budget airlines may stop flying to certain state-subsidized secondary airports). The very lowest fares are typically found either by booking long in advance or by waiting for the steeply discounted ''seat filler'' tickets that often become available shortly before a flight, so travelers need to be flexible. 
 Ronel Zeki, 25, a native of Johannesburg who moved to London last summer, said that she and many of her friends have become addicted to checking budget airline Web sites for last-minute deals. She has been to Dublin and Amsterdam already, and she said she would not rule out going someplace she had never heard of if the price was good enough. ''My focus is on traveling and seeing as much of Europe as I can while I'm here,'' Ms. Zeki said. ''And if it's going to cost me the same as getting into a car and driving for an hour, why not go someplace a bit different for the weekend?''
 Sharon Lougher, editor of the fifth edition of Time Out's Europe by Air, said that many Europeans were taking a similarly casual approach to air travel. The guide specializes in suggesting to travelers what they might do once they have bought that cheap ticket, and suddenly find themselves with 36 hours to spend in Haugesund, Norway, say, or Pau, in France. A whole host of small towns that were once nearly unknown outside their regions are now being discovered as whimsical weekend destinations.
 ''When a clutch of new airlines emerged flying to smaller airports (a preferred modus operandi, because it plays a large part in keeping an airline's costs down), we realized that there was a hunger for newly accessible (but more unfamiliar) destinations like Pescara, Esbjerg, Klagenfurt,'' Ms. Lougher wrote in an e-mail message, referring to airports in Italy, Denmark and Austria. ''We published our first guide in 2002, and covered over 80 destinations. Now the guide covers over 140.''
 Ms. Lougher said that Europeans were traveling more, and more frequently, than they ever have before: ''U.K. visits abroad have tripled in the last three years, and have gone up by 10 million in the five years of 1998 and 2002 inclusive. This statistic can largely be attributed to budget airlines, for obvious reasons.'' Yet some travel experts say that Americans planning trips to Europe are just starting to become aware of the ways that they might use Europe's new, no-frills airlines.
 Mr. Steves, the American guidebook writer and a travel consultant, said Americans were skeptical about the low-cost airlines. ''A lot of people want to believe that there's no free lunch in the airline industry,'' he said. ''And to a certain extent, that's true. You need to make sure you make a sober choice. If you save 100 bucks on the flight, and then end up spending hours getting in from the airport, then maybe that's not worth your time. Americans have the shortest vacations in the rich world, and they have to be more focused in their approach.''
 For many Americans, Mr. Steves said, the classic rail tour of Europe, with a backpack and a Eurail Pass, remains the preferred approach. There are some routes, he said, London to Dublin, for instance, where not even Americans take the train anymore. But ''Eurail is making the passes more and more flexible,'' he said. ''For the American market, rail is easily keeping up with air.'' 
 Mr. Steves said that despite his initial fears, the Madrid train bombing had not dented American enthusiasm for riding the rails. ''I've been impressed by how quickly it's been bulldozed to the back of people's minds,'' he said. 
 The 2004 edition of ''Europe Through the Back Door'' includes a section on Europe's low-cost airlines, which advises United States travelers to research air deals carefully, pointing out that flights may land at regional airports as much as 60 miles away from a destination city, or in a different country altogether. (Mr. Steves cites Malmo, Sweden, which is about 45 minutes by airport shuttle bus from Copenhagen.)
 But Carrie Jaecksch, 23, said that though she and a friend bought Eurail Passes for her first trip to Europe, following college graduation a year and a half ago, she wishes she had known that there was a budget-friendly air option. Airlines like Ryanair and EasyJet, she said, ''just aren't very well known in the States.''
 ''Our Europass tickets cost something like $500,'' Ms. Jaecksch said. ''The first time I heard of the low-cost airlines was on that trip, and I was, like, 'What?!''' 
 ''Most of our Eurail experience was night trains, crammed into little smelly compartments with people we didn't know,'' she said. ''It's not like we were even looking out the window and seeing Europe. To console ourselves, we thought, well, maybe you have to be European to get the plane tickets.''
 You do not have to be European. This winter, I decided to test out Ryanair's ultracheap offerings on a weekend trip to Bruges. For purposes of comparison, I planned to return by the quickest and cheapest train route available. 
 In the middle of January, spur-of-the-moment Saturday morning tickets from Stansted to Ostend-Bruges, in Belgium, on Ryanair were selling for $:6.99, or $12.70, about 10 hours before the planned departure. All told, the one-way ticket came to $:24.34, or $44.20, once airport and other taxes had been added. This still seemed like a pretty terrific deal to this (American) traveler. Credit card details were duly tapped in, and a moment later, up popped a message explaining that, as Ryanair was a ticket-free airline, passengers were expected to print up their own confirmation numbers and to take them, along with appropriate photo ID, to check in.
 I arrived at Stansted Airport the next morning via the Stansted Express train from central London, a trip of about 45 minutes. The big, boxlike check-in area was difficult to navigate at first: throngs of passengers carrying overnight bags wandered like lost sheep among acres of tiny, often unstaffed counters. A full 50 minutes before departure, a line was already forming at the gate. Ryanair doesn't make seat assignments, so fans of the exit-row seats (more legroom) arrive early.
 Ryanair and its brethren wear the ''no frills'' epithet with pride. On the Ostend-Bruges flight, there were no airline magazines, no in-flight movies or music, and no baggies of pretzels. Passengers didn't seem to mind: the plane was in the air for exactly 27 minutes, so they scarcely had time to scan their newspapers.
 At Ostend's sleepy airport, where the flight from London was the only one expected for several hours, the 60-odd passengers filed casually off the plane and onto a waiting shuttle bus bound for Bruges proper. Twenty minutes later, they were busy losing themselves in the ancient streets of the medieval town.
 The return trip by train -- Bruges to Brussels to London via Eurostar -- took nearly five hours, and at $149.90, cost close to four times as much as my flight. And yet, of course, people take rail or air journeys for very different reasons.
 ''Train travel has much lower check-in times, and can, in general, get you much closer to the center of a city,'' Ms. Lougher said of ''interrailing,'' or journeys on Europe's rail network. ''In my experience, interrailing and budget airline travel attract two different sorts of people.'' 
 Tim Roebuck, vice president of sales for ACP Rail, a Hoboken-based company that sells Eurail Passes in the United States, also sought to identify the typical Eurail customer as a wholly different ''type'' of traveler. ''They want to meet other people who are traveling around,'' he said. ''You're much closer to the local culture.'' Many American train-pass customers are of college age, he said, but in general they aren't roaming as widely or for as long as their counterparts a generation ago did. ''People aren't doing all 17 countries anymore,'' Mr. Roebuck said of American Eurail customers. ''It used to be the trip of a lifetime, but it's cheaper now. People realize that they can go to Europe several times in a lifetime.''
 But Paul Fitzsimmons, a spokesman for Ryanair, pooh-poohed the idea that train travel was the best way to experience European culture. Budget airlines, he said, are ultimately bringing Europe closer together.
 ''Are we like a bus in the sky? Absolutely,'' he asked. ''Do we want to be a bus in the sky? Absolutely. This is not brain surgery. Nor should it cost you a bank loan.''
 According to Mr. Steves, the guidebook writer, it isn't the low-cost airlines that have changed Europe; it's that Europe itself has changed. ''That vagabond experience in Europe, sleeping on the trains and camping out in youth hostels, has changed now,'' he said. ''You're not hanging around in front of American Express waiting to get your mail anymore, because you've got your cellphone.''
 ''Europe's just not as romantic and misty and exciting as it was when we were kids,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: May 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A caption on April 4 with an article about air and rail fares in Europe misidentified two train stations. The overhead picture of a train was of the Gare du Nord in Paris; that of a little boy was of Waterloo Station in London. (Neither picture showed the station in Tours, France.)





GRAPHIC: Photos: Waiting at Stansted Airport, an easy trip by train or bus from London. Ryanair and other budget airlines use Stansted for flights to Europe.
 At the train station in Tours, France. Many Americans still prefer train travel to air, despite the low fares. (Photographs by Joan Liftin/Actuality, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); AIR FARES (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (52%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) 

COMPANY: RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (85%); EASYJET PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (85%); RYA (LSE) (85%); EZJ (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%)

PERSON: Katherine Zoepf; Rick Steves

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (78%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (70%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (55%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (91%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



82 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: In Bhutan, Mountains, Lamas, and Golf?

BYLINE: By RICK LIPSEY. 
RICK LIPSEY is again covering golf for Sports Illustrated.

 BODY:
TREKKING, watching religious festivals and tasting yak meat and the world's hottest chilies were on the to-do list when my wife, Carrie, and I visited Bhutan, the Himalayan kingdom wedged between Tibet and India, in the fall of 2000. As avid golfers, we also wanted to play on the roof of the world and made a tee-time at Royal Thimphu, a nine-hole layout in the capital, Thimphu, that is Bhutan's only bona fide course. 
 We didn't plan to make history, but we did. Carrie was the first left-handed woman to hit a shot on Bhutanese soil (a shanked 7 iron!), and I became Bhutan's first golf pro.
 While playing with members at Royal Thimphu, I gave my hosts swing tips and they told me the club's dream was to replace Jack Nicklaus videos with a professional teacher. I jokingly said that although not a pro, I'd played college golf, given lessons to friends and was a golf writer for Sports Illustrated. 
 Apparently, the Bhutanese hackers were desperate. ''When could you come?'' the club secretary said deadpan.
 I was shocked. My head whirring like a Buddhist prayer wheel, I looked at Carrie, but she too was nearly hyperventilating. I then glanced at the jaw-dropping surroundings -- the spectacular mountains, the monasteries, rivers, farms, bright prayer flags and soaring eagles -- and said, ''Ummm, well, yes, I'll be your pro.''
 Back in New York, thinking about the adventure was intoxicating. Golf and exploring the Himalayas are my favorite hobbies, and now I'd be a pro in my Xanadu. Some golf instructor friends gave me tutorials that would help me teach the club's 100 members (99 of them male, including the king, a 13-handicapper) and start a junior program. Carrie, a civil rights lawyer, also was gung-ho, because she had lined up work with Bhutan's chief justice to help draft the country's Penal Code and Evidence Act.
 We were to go in fall of the following year for a little over three months. But nine months before our scheduled departure, Carrie became pregnant with our first child. ''No way am I taking a baby to Bhutan,'' Carrie said. Most of our friends reacted similarly, saying, in effect, that bringing an infant to Bhutan would constitute child abuse.
 Like me, though, Carrie has an insatiable appetite for travel, especially in Asia; we had honeymooned in Nepal, and this would be her fourth trip to the continent. So, eventually Carrie's lust for the road overruled the prevalent American paranoia about taking children to any place resembling a National Geographic article's subject, and we decided to go a year later, taking a sabbatical and a maternity leave in the fall of 2002. 
 Upon capitulating, however, she had one non-negotiable demand: ''We ship a full supply of baby gear to Bhutan.''
 To say that Bhutan, a country with one foot in the 21st century and one in the 19th, is different from America is a colossal understatement. Slightly larger than Switzerland but with only about 730,000 citizens, Bhutan has no chain stores or traffic lights, but it does have the highest unclimbed mountain, Gangkar Punsum (24,741 feet). It also measures prosperity with Gross National Happiness, not Gross Domestic Product. 
 Two of every three Bhutanese are farmers, and most still wear the national dress, a gho for men and a kira for women, woven and brightly colored robelike garments. There are no highways and one airport, cut into a deep valley between the mountains, Bhutan didn't officially get the Internet and television until 1999. Cellphones arrived last year, and the first A.T.M. just recently. 
 But golf came to Bhutan 35 years ago. Then, the Tashichhodzong, a sprawling fortlike structure with offices for the country's key government and religious officials, was surrounded by putrid rice paddies. An Indian army officer told King Jigme Singye Wangchuck that he could turn the glop into a manicured lawn by building a golf course. The king was unfamiliar with golf, but he liked the idea of a green oasis, and the course opened a few years later.
 Today, there are similarities and differences between golf in Bhutan and the rest of the world. The biggest differences: the lack of even one motorized cart, and the altitude. In Thimphu (7,500 feet), the ball flies 20 percent farther than at sea level, and yet the course is fairly short at about 5,500 yards and par 66 from the two sets of tees used for an 18-hole round. 
 Another major difference is that golf, and Tiger Woods, are virtually unknown to the Bhutanese except the 130 or so businessmen and officials who play, and I always chuckled when monks and other passers-by peered quizzically through the chain-link fence around the course. 
 At a junior clinic, I asked, ''Who knows Tiger Woods?'' and ''Who knows the Rock?'' Not one of the 35 kids knew Woods, but they all knew the Rock, the World Wrestling Entertainment star. 
 The similarities? If you lifted Royal Thimphu out of its Himalayan environs, the course would resemble an average municipal layout in the United States, except for the large white brick chorten (a religious monument) by the third tee. (The few other courses in the country are more primitive and mainly on military bases.) 
 The Bhutanese also enjoy gambling and mulligans, and there's a gang of golf widows of the first degree, whose husbands spend most evenings in the clubhouse imbibing and eating fried mo mo's (a dumpling) doused in wicked-hot chili sauce while discussing bad shots, the latest clubs and favorite PGA Tour players.
 The Bhutanese also are obsessed with distance. On my first day at work, I taught Brigadier V. Namgyel, head of the Royal Bodyguard. A meaty 6 feet 2 inches and 200 pounds, Namgyel is built like an N.F.L. linebacker, and he swings like one, too. His first question: ''How can I hit the ball farther?''
 The best thing about being Bhutan's first golf pro was that everybody -- including nongolfers -- wanted to meet me and my family, and the heartfelt hospitality provided an intimate window into Bhutanese society. At weddings, dinner parties and gala events, we befriended a cross section of Bhutanese society, from the intelligence chief to a silversmith. We were awed by their aura of peace and kindness, prevalent qualities in Bhutan, no doubt because of the people's deep Buddhist faith and devotion to Gross National Happiness.
 One of our most interesting friends was named Iron Bridge. A lama, he is reputedly the 13th reincarnation of a Tibetan saint who built 108 iron bridges in Tibet and Bhutan in the 15th century. We met him at the wedding of a daughter of Pem L. Dorji, one of my golf charges who was the governor of Wangdi, the largest of Bhutan's 20 districts.
 While Carrie and I were dancing to a bizarre medley -- one moment a Bhutanese folk song by a live troupe and the next Bon Jovi's ''Living on a Prayer'' from a boom box -- I spotted Iron Bridge by the outdoor dance floor. Wearing a flowing, light gray, silk robe, he was lithe with a crew cut and gold wire-rim glasses. He radiated the tranquillity you'd expect from the Dalai Lama.
 I introduced myself, and Iron Bridge, in a mellifluous voice, replied: ''Glad to meet you. You do good works for our country.'' 
 I was stunned. How did a renowned lama know me? Turns out, Iron Bridge's father-in-law was Mr. Dorji.
 I peppered him with questions. He was 30 and had an 18-month-old daughter; he lived at his private monastery; and he had just finished five years of solitary meditation. He also had a business card, a fax number, an e-mail address and followers from Taipei to Los Angeles.
 ''Did you ever play golf?'' I said.
 ''No. I only have time to meditate,'' Iron Bridge replied.
 ''Maybe in your next life?'' I said.
 Iron Bridge smiled. ''Only if you teach me.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gary Clement) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); RELIGION (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); ATHLETES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MATERNITY LEAVE (75%); LAWYERS (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (61%); CHILD ABUSE (60%); CRIMINAL LAW (60%) 

PERSON: Rick Lipsey

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (91%); HIMALAYAS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) TIBET (92%); BHUTAN (92%); CHINA (91%); NEPAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Bhutan

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



83 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2157 words

HEADLINE: IN THE AIR, ON THE CHEAP

BYLINE: By BARRY ESTABROOK. 
BARRY ESTABROOK contributes to the Travel section regularly.

 BODY:
THE first indication that it was going to be an unusual airline experience was when the grandmotherly voiced agent who took my call at JetBlue Airways signed off by saying, ''Honey, you are so worth it.'' I expect a certain amount of attitude from airline employees, somewhere between sullen and downright surly. But respectful, efficient, friendly? It had been a long time since I had applied those adjectives to airline service. 
 That may be changing. JetBlue, which started in 2000, has attracted a loyal clientele by combining two seemingly contradictory philosophies: the low fares and single-class seating pioneered by Southwest plus frills and personality aplenty -- the airline is relaxed and hip. Following the lead of JetBlue, Delta started Song in April 2003, and United inaugurated Ted in February.
 Can these new airlines remain true to their low-cost premise while living up to their own hype with perks like leather seats, satellite television and personal service from attendants in designer uniforms? 
 The answer, says David Beckerman, a Washington-based director of consulting services at BACK Aviation Solutions, is not always. In early February, he analyzed fares on 15 popular United States routes and found that the major airlines beat low-cost carriers 55 percent of the time. ''Farther out, every airline looks about the same,'' Mr. Beckerman said. ''Close in, it is often the traditional carriers that are cheaper.''
 Ted, Song and JetBlue are very different entities, according to Michael Boyd, an airline consultant based in Evergreen, Colo. ''JetBlue is a stand-alone airline,'' Mr. Boyd said. ''They have built not so much a passenger base as a cult following by fostering the feeling that the company really likes to have people on its planes. Song is Delta's response to JetBlue. Ted is aviation shtick, pure and simple. United is spending money on a cute image, but it's basically the same fare, the same employees, and the same service as you got before they took United planes and painted Ted on their sides.''
 To see for myself, in mid-March I embarked on a 6,000-mile, 40-hour odyssey aboard JetBlue, Song and Ted. It would take me along the East Coast between New York and Florida, where Song and JetBlue compete, with a side trip from Fort Lauderdale to Denver and back, a route served by Ted. I took advantage of every perk and bought sample meals when offered.
 But first I had to get reservations. Twelve days before my departure, I went to JetBlue's Web site. Given the company's reputation for customer service and emphasis on electronic ticketing (it does not issue paper tickets), I expected a model of online efficiency. But the site was balky and slow. At one point, the screen said: ''Chill, this may take some time.'' How true. After 15 minutes, I gave up and called the airline. The grandmotherly-voiced woman got me a reservation, but couldn't assign a seat.
 My next stop was Song. A few clicks on its site and I had what I needed. Emboldened, I decided to buy an onboard meal, selecting an organic oregano-scented chicken and spinach salad, paying with my credit card. 
 Ted greeted me with bold navy blue and orange graphics, but after entering my flight information, I found myself on United's businesslike site, where booking went smoothly. Because I would be spending the night in Denver, Ted's base, I decided to use the Hotels feature on the site and reserved a king room at the Brown Palace for $130 a night. I called the hotel directly and asked for the same room. Their best price: $230.

First, JetBlue
 Still without a reserved seat on JetBlue, (800) 538-2583, www.jetblue.com, I lined up at the ticket counter in Burlington, Vt., the airport nearest my home, an hour before my scheduled departure to Kennedy Airport. There were two agents on duty and nine of us in line. One of the agents came around from behind the podium to speed up checking baggage. Another was helping passengers operate the touch-screen boarding pass terminals (which greeted us with the words ''Howdy'' and ''What's Up?'').
 At the gate, I grabbed my free earphones from a bin by the door and walked into the Jetway. The seats in the Airbus A-320 were upholstered in gray leather, and as soon as I sat down, I noticed that there was far more space between my seat and the one in front than is normal in coach. I had lucked out. Last year, JetBlue removed a row of seats from its planes to give more legroom -- 34 inches versus 32. But the change only affects rows 10 and higher, about two-thirds of the seats. I was in Row 21.
 The most noticeable difference between JetBlue and mainstream coach class, however, is the small TV screen on the back of every seat. I plugged in my earphones and tuned the DirecTV service to the ''Today'' show on NBC, one of 24 channels available. An hour later, after flight attendants had served me a free can of orange juice and a bag of chocolate oatmeal cookies, we landed at J.F.K. I hadn't even had time to try the exercises on the ''Airplane Yoga'' card in my seatback pouch. At $110 for a one-way ticket, it wasn't hard to understand why JetBlue is popular. The best fare I could find on a major airline for a one-way ticket from Burlington to Kennedy that close to departure was $184, on US Airways and United. Less obvious is how JetBlue has managed to be profitable for the past three years.
 ''We do more with less,'' said Gareth Edmondson-Jones, a company spokesman. ''Our planes fly 13 hours a day versus nine hours at many major airlines. Plus we have a very high load factor.'' For the first two months of this year, the airline filled 78 percent of its seats. Mr. Edmondson-Jones said that the airline, which announced the addition of four more cities to its routes in mid-March, for a total of 27, will be adding 16 Airbus planes this year.

Song in the Air
 Many of JetBlue's flights compete directly with Delta between the Northeast and Florida. According to Stacy Geagan, a spokeswoman for Song, (800) 359-7664, www.flysong.com, Florida is the source of 30 percent of Delta's global revenue. Ms. Geagan said that beginning last April, the company refurbished 36 Delta 757's as Song aircraft, with a bright green logo and leather interiors. Kate Spade created the charcoal-gray uniforms with parrot-green accents (and an optional butterfly-wing accent in place of the traditional airline wings) that attendants will begin wearing this month. By flying the planes longer hours each day, paying Delta flight attendants less per hour (and in exchange giving them the choice to work more hours per month) and using only one gate attendant to board planes, which can accommodate 199 passengers, Song has cut costs, Ms. Geagan said.
 But cutting the number of gate agents has a downside. I found the service at the J.F.K. gate slow and confusing. Once aboard, I was struck by the cheerful orange, green, purple and blue leather seats that offered 33 inches of legroom, more than usual in coach. Like JetBlue, every seat had a television screen. 
 It was getting close to noon, and my stomach was growling for that organic chicken salad I had ordered. I also had a thirst for a Song Sunrise, one of the airline's much-touted cocktails, a concoction of vodka, orange juice and cranapple juice served in a ''signature martini glass,'' according to the seat-pocket menu. Despite my having ordered online and paid $8, the flight attendant told me that they had run out of salads. ''You should have told us when you boarded,'' she said, curtly. Eventually, she found a salad in the galley. It was about half the size of the chicken salad sold at a deli in the terminal for $6.50, with a few tasteless squares of white meat on top of baby spinach leaves accompanied by a packet of Newman's Own balsamic dressing. I was still looking forward to sipping my Song Sunrise from that signature glass. Alas, the beverage ($5) came in the same cup as every other drink.
 The woman sitting next to me on the three-hour flight, Adriana Dieguez of Miami, who had flown to New York for the weekend, declined to pay for lunch, and was making do with a free Diet Coke. ''The amenities on this plane are fine,'' she said. ''But a little complimentary snack would have been nice for $270.'' Ms. Dieguez also found the in-flight service wanting. ''It's not customer-oriented,'' she said. ''They rushed us getting aboard.''
 Still, at $87, the Song flight was the best deal of my trip. The lowest I could get from a major airline was $281 (American).

The Name's Ted
 The cost of a round trip from Fort Lauderdale to Denver on Ted, (800) 225-5833, www.flyted.com, was $277. (American again had the best fare of a major: $323.) From the cute name (the last three letters of United) to the touch-screen terminals that invited me to ''Push Ted's buttons,'' and the bright orange placards in the boarding area that said things like, ''Ted is happy to see you,'' United has gone to extremes to make Ted aviation's answer to those up close and personal restaurant waiters of the 1990's.
 But Ted seemed to be suffering an identity crisis. Although we were surrounded by orange pillars and humorous slogans in the boarding area, the agent announced that United Flight 4321 was ready to board, then had to correct herself. Ted offers one-class service, but United's frequent fliers were allowed to board first. And were it not for the missing first-class cabin, the interior of Ted would have been identical to United's coach. There were no leather seats and no extra legroom in my row; an economy-plus section had more legroom, but those seats went first to the United frequent fliers.
 The flight attendants wore United uniforms. Tedevision, as the in-flight entertainment is called, was broadcast from overhead screens and consisted of reruns of popular shows such as ''Friends'' and ''Scrubs.'' 
 And although the touch screen that had invited me to push Ted's buttons had also assured me that I would be able to buy a restaurant-quality meal aboard the plane (a policy that applies to flights over two and a half hours), the flight attendant skipped our aisle, and by the time another attendant summoned her, the chicken salad I wanted was sold out. I settled for a $6 turkey pastrami sandwich that had a T.G.I. Friday's label but in all other ways reminded me of those tough, stale snacks they used to give out in coach for free. To Ted's credit, I was able to obliterate the taste with a bourbon on the rocks that cost $4, a dollar less than the same drink on the other flights.
 Rich Benvin, a professional tennis coach from Denver, was sitting across the aisle from me. He said he had reserved less than one week before departing for a spur-of-the-moment vacation to Florida, and it was not until he arrived at the terminal that he realized he was flying on Ted. ''I booked on United's site, and this feels like United to me,'' said Mr. Benvin, who is a frequent flier on United. ''They are using this whole Ted thing as a marketing ploy.''
 But Sean Donohue, vice president of Ted, said that there was much more to the airline than the cute image, which was developed by Pentagram Design of New York. ''We started Ted because, when you look at our fastest-growing markets like Denver to Phoenix and Denver to Fort Lauderdale, you see that they are being fueled by low fares,'' he said. ''Ted's costs are 15 to 20 percent below United's, which makes them comparable to Frontier.'' Frontier is a low-fare carrier that competes with United in Western markets. Mr. Donohue said that in its first month of operation, Ted flew with more than 80 percent of its seats filled. The airline will begin service this month out of Dulles, near Washington, and out of O'Hare, near Chicago, in May. 
 The final leg of my trip was back aboard JetBlue from Fort Lauderdale to J.F.K. The cost: $154. Each of the previous flights had been fairly full, but this one, scheduled to leave Fort Lauderdale at 5:50 p.m., was completely booked. The elderly couple next to me muttered to each other in Russian. Three bare-midriffed young ladies sat across the aisle and struck up a boisterous friendship with a trio of tattooed guys from Queens behind them. A couple with two active toddler boys sat behind me. It seemed that everyone except me had brought carry-on food. We were a raucous crew, but despite the pandemonium, the flight attendants took it in stride, smiling and chatting as they served free soft drinks and bags of blue potato chips, biscotti and cookies. 
 The sky darkened. I turned up the volume on my headphones to shut out the chatter and assessed my two days in this new world of commercial flight. I loved the leather seats, extra room and satellite TV on JetBlue and Song. But next time I fly Song, I'll buy food at the airport and carry it on. Flying Ted is virtually the same as flying coach on any other airline. And I'll take the smiles and can-do attitudes I encountered on JetBlue over designer uniforms any day.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on April 4 about three low-fare airlines misstated the location of O'Hare Airport, where one airline, Ted, will begin service next month. The airport is in Chicago, not merely near it. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Saundra Miller with a Bennigan's meal served on Ted. Rolling out the welcome mat in Denver. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times [check-in and attendant])
 Song's aircraft feature leather seats and extra legroom. Headsets for in-flight TV are included in the fare at JetBlue. On a window at Kennedy, a word from the folks at Song. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times [cabin, headsets] and Bloomberg News [window]) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (53%) 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Jetblue Airways; Song (Airline); Ted Airlines; Delta Air Lines Inc; United Airlines

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%)

PERSON: Barry Estabrook

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (87%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (66%) COLORADO, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



84 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 4; FRUGAL TRAVELER

LENGTH: 2158 words

HEADLINE: In Macao, European And Asian Flavors

BYLINE: By DAISANN McLANE

 BODY:
ARRIVING in Macao last January on the fast ferry from Hong Kong I hopped into the first taxi I saw and said to the driver: ''Take me to Fernando's!''
 The driver motioned me in, reluctantly. ''Do you mind if I stop somewhere first?''
 I shrugged. Fernando's is a Macao restaurant legendary among Hong Kongers for its roast suckling pig, a dish so succulent that my Hong Kong friend Sunny Sevilla had insisted I must sample it before returning to America from Hong Kong, where I'd been living for a few months, studying Cantonese. Fernando's and its roast pork are on Coloane Island, part of Macao but about seven miles, and two causeways, distant from the ferry terminal -- a long trip for a cabbie in this city of only about 10 square miles. It might not be so easy to find another willing driver. So I agreed, and we took off. 
 A moment later, he pulled up at a shopfront in Macao's busy central district and double-parked in front of a branch of Maxim's, the Hong Kong-based fast-food and bakery chain. ''I'm hungry,'' said the driver. ''I'm going to buy some bao.''
 ''Bao'' is the Cantonese word for bun or dumpling. In the Hong Kong Maxim's, what you get when you ask for bao is a puffy white bun stuffed with pork and scallions, or barbecued meat. As the cabbie hustled back from his errand, holding a big brown paper bag, I imagined it full of such bao, and crossed my fingers he'd do the polite Chinese thing -- offer one to me.
 The cab filled with an unexpected aroma: just-baked bread. ''I got five of these for only 75 cents,'' boasted the driver, as he handed me a crusty, hot baguette.
 I took it happily but wondered, what happened to the bao? And then it hit me. In Macao, a former Portuguese colony that since 1999 has been a special administrative region of China, there was ''bao,'' the Chinese bun, and ''pao'' the Portuguese bread (pronounced, in Cantonese, the same way). I held in my hand fresh-from-the-oven evidence of how the Macanese have, for nearly 400 years, commingled European culture with Asian.
 At Fernando's, Sunny was waiting at a table with three other friends from Hong Kong who had come to Macao just for dinner. Macao, for Hong Kongers, is where you go for a quick, cheap getaway -- the hydrofoil ride takes only an hour and costs about $35 round trip. You step off the boat into a town in Portugal or Brazil. Buildings are mainly three and four stories, and a turn down a narrow side street can lead to a winding cobblestone walkway or a row of candy-colored 18th-century houses.
 Sunny motioned for me to take a seat as he placed a thick, steaming slice of meat on my plate. I've eaten roast pork, or lechon, from Cuba to Manila, from Hong Kong to Spain. But I'd never tasted it with skin as thin and delicately crisp as the caramelized crust on a creme brulee. Underneath, the meat was tender and moist, and pulled apart easily without a knife.
 Macao's unusual cuisine draws on Cantonese, Portuguese and African flavors. The foreign foodways traveled there with sailors and traders who passed through the city when it was one of China's few ports open to the West. Some restaurants, like Fernando's, are mainly Portuguese style with Cantonese touches, like the technique that creates that delicate, crispy skin. Others, like Long Kei, specialize in Cantonese soups made with egg noodles prepared on premises. There are restaurants famous for crab congee (rice porridge with a bright pink crustacean floating within), and for fusion food like African chicken, rubbed with malagueta peppers, then grilled. 
 Whatever the cuisine, a Macao restaurant bill will generally come to a bit more than half the cost what you'd pay in Hong Kong. (Our meal at Fernando's, with salad, shrimp sauteed Portuguese style, in olive oil and garlic, vegetables, dessert, two orders of roast pig and two bottles of Portuguese vinho verde, came to just $18.20 each.)
 Most of the nine million tourists who visit Macao each year come just for a day. I stayed for two nights. I wanted to savor the early mornings, when little cafes off the main street buzz with office workers grabbing their morning cafe and nata -- a Portuguese egg custard tart. Macao's hotels, like its restaurants, are bargains if you avoid weekends. My large, comfortable room at the Hotel Sintra, right in the center of town, was only $55 a night. 
 I wanted to linger and absorb as much as I could of this atmospheric city while it was still a place where one can imagine oneself in a 50-year-old photograph of China. It may not be that way much longer.
 Macao's biggest tourist draw is gambling, which accounts for nearly a third of the city's economy. For most of its history, Macao's gambling has been controlled by a local monopoly, but in 2001, casino license bidding was opened to foreign companies. Las Vegas casinos jumped in, and this spring the Sands Macao, a 163,000-square-foot casino owned by the developer of the Venetian, is scheduled to open, with more Las Vegas-backed megacasinos in the works. Also on the drawing board is a proposed 18-mile road bridge that would make it possible to drive between Macao and Hong Kong.
 But as I walked the Macao streets, I saw only a few signs of change -- a single Starbucks in the recently renovated Largo do Senado, the central plaza, and some banks and smart shops that weren't there when I visited Macao in 2000. One happy recent addition to the city is a beautifully designed new arts complex that includes a theater and a museum of Asian painting, older and modern.
 The Sands and another big, locally owned casino are going up on landfill near the ferry terminal, separated by a highway from town and San Ma Lo, its main promenade.
 San Ma Lo is a bustling corridor of shops selling gold jewelry, pastries, antiques, hardware and beef jerky that comes in flat, square, paper-thin sheets. The commercial buildings have those old-fashioned high arched porticos that allow shoppers to stroll and browse in the shade, protected from tropical downpours. For most of a morning, and into the afternoon I wandered along San Ma Lo and its side streets, looking for little adventures.
 ''Try this,'' said a short, insistent woman standing in front of a bakery called Koi Kei. Without warning, she thrust a small cookie right into my mouth. When I got over the shock, it hit me that the cookie was delicious, a burst of roasted fresh almonds. Inside the shop workers were busy patting a powdery mixture of almonds, flour and sugar into molds, and others emptied the molds, hot from the oven, into trays. Who could resist? For about a dollar, I bought a plastic cylinder of maang kung beng -- blind man's cookies. (They used to be sold in Macao's streets by blind vendors.)
 Sugar provided the fuel to propel me up the steep hill that leads from Largo do Senado to the St. Paul's Cathedral ruins, Macao's architectural centerpiece. It's a strange sight -- the cathedral that used to be there was ruined by fire in the 1700's. Only the facade remains, propped up by steel supports from the back as if it were a movie set in Hollywood. The set imagery is not too far off, since is often a prop in photographs taken by Chinese tour groups dutifully tromping up its steep stairs.
 FROM a side street I heard the distinctive high-pitched singing of Cantonese opera, and went to investigate. The proprietress of the Tai Lung Fung teahouse, Mrs. Chan, told me that her Cantonese opera association performed there every day after 3 p.m. I sat for a while, allowing the whooshing cymbals and sad love songs about ancient emperors and concubines fill my imagination.
 Heady from the opera, I set out for the A-Ma temple. The temple, named for a Chinese goddess, has been active since ancient times, when it was a must stop for departing sailors. Nowadays it is busy with arriving visitors hoping to put a good spin on their luck, and departing ones who want thank the gods for a windfall. In the maze of courtyards with round moon gates that lead to other courtyards, and smoky altars, I dropped some money into an offering pan filled with Chinese renminbi, and some more change into the cups of the elderly women who sit by the moon gate asking for alms.
 Later that afternoon I went to the Casino Lisboa, Macao's most-established casino. I don't gamble, but simply watching the action there is great entertainment. The Chinese gamblers prefer card and dice games to slots. Small dramas unfold in smoke-filled rooms. There is the elderly Chinese woman in a humble gray flowered blouse, with $30,000 in chips stacked in front of her at the baccarat table. Is she a rich property owner with frugal taste in clothes, or a poor woman from the country with a terrific string of luck? She sips her green tea, and her face betrays nothing.
 Inside another, larger room, the minimum bet is $500, and the card table is packed three deep with wiry, chain-smoking fellows who look like extras from a Hong Kong cops and robbers movie. As the cards are dealt, a young man with a scar along his jaw peels the corner of his face-down card slowly toward him, with a macho flourish that damages it. He does this once, twice, three times, until finally the pit boss, a young woman, strides over. I expect her to yell and threaten to send a bouncer over. 
 Instead she teases, ''You are so handsome, why are you being such a bad boy?'' Admonished in front of his buddies, he turns red, and they all laugh. On the next deal, he doesn't bend the card.
 Watching this scene, I try to imagine how American-style casinos will go down with Macao's Chinese gamblers. Will they develop a yen for the solitary play of slot machines (the Sands has ordered abouat 500) instead of the gregarious, challenging games of fan tan and baccarat? Will Macao turn into a glitzy Las Vegas of the East?
 Over in the next room, the woman in the flowered blouse has a pile of chips twice the size it was 20 minutes before, but still no smile.
 The odds, I would bet, are in favor of Macao. 

The bottom line
 My two days and nights in Macao cost a total of $229, or $114.50 a day including round-trip ferry, hotel, activities, local transportation and food. One U.S. dollar is about 8 Macao patacas or Hong Kong dollars. Both currencies are used in Macao.

Transportation
 Hydrofoil ferries run about every 15 minutes between Hong Kong and Macao, leaving Hong Kong from the Shun Tak Ferry Terminal in Sheung Wan. The trip costs $17.50 and takes an hour. One must pass through customs and immigration on both sides; there is no visa fee for American citizens.
 Short city taxi trips in Macao cost about $4, a ride to Fernando's on Coloane Island is about $15.

Hotels
 My room at the Hotel Sintra, Avenida Dom Joao IV, telephone (853) 710111, fax (853) 510527, www.hotelsintra.com, was comfortable, clean and about the level of luxe you'd expect at a chain like Hyatt. The midweek rate, booked in Hong Kong through South China (Macao) Travel Agency, (852) 28150208, at the Shun Tak Macao Ferry Terminal, was $57 a night, including transport to and from the ferry terminal.
 On another short trip to Macao, the Sintra was full so I booked a room for at the Hotel Ritz, Rua da Boa Vista 2, (853) 339955, fax (853) 317826, which has a better view but is not as convenient to downtown. My twin-bedded double had a view of the sea, and was $76 a night. Transport to and from the terminal was included.

Restaurants
 Fernando's, Hac Sa Beach 9, Coloane, (853) 882264, near the Macao seaside, is popular for its roast suckling pig and Portuguese and Macanese specialties. Dinner for one, with wine, is around $20. No reservations.
 Cafe Amagao, Rua Ho Lin Vong 25, Taipa, (853) 827627, is a small, homey place that serves spicy Macanese home cooking. A dish of chicken stewed in a pepper sauce with bread, wine and coffee came to about $15.
 Long Kei, Largo do Senado 7B, (853) 589508, is known for its Cantonese egg noodle dishes. Noodles with mushrooms and sliced garoupa (kind of fish), which costs about $4, is a meal in a bowl.
 Near the Hotel Sintra, the small lunch counter Hou Hou Ging, Com Mata-Oliva 2-4, (853) 712345, serves delicious water crab congee (ask for seui hai juk), another Macao specialty. A bowl is $3. They are open from 8 a.m. for breakfast.
 At Tai Long Fong teahouse, Rua Cinco de Outubro 127-129, (853) 922459, a small Cantonese opera troupe performs (without costumes) every afternoon from around 3. Tea and dim sum are available, from around $1.25 a plate.

Activities
 The casino at the Hotel Lisboa, Avenida de Lisboa 2-4, (853) 377666, www.hotelisboa.com is open 24 hours.
 The Macao Museum of Art, (853) 7919814, www.artmuseum.gov.mo, a beautiful new complex featuring Macanese as well as ancient Chinese collections, is in the new cultural center on Avenida Xian Xing Hai;. CSlosed Mondays. Admission is about 75 cents, and Sundays are free.
 The Macao Government Tourist Office, www.macautourism.gov.mo, has desks at both the Hong Kong and Macao ferry terminals. DAISANN McLANE


GRAPHIC: Photos: Almond cookies.
Low-rise Macao.
The A-Ma temple.
Largo do Senado, Macao's central plaza. (Photographs by Daisann McLane)(pg. 4)
 The author's room in the Hotel Sintra. (Photo by Daisann McLane)(pg. 16)Map of China highlighting Guangdong. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); RETAIL BAKERIES (76%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BAKERIES (66%) 

PERSON: Daisann Mclane

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (78%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (55%) HONG KONG (95%); MACAO (94%); CHINA (92%); PORTUGAL (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%) Macao

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



85 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 12; IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Philharmonic Season Fizzles at the End

BYLINE: By Brian Wise

 BODY:
Citing slow ticket sales, executives at the Long Island Philharmonic canceled the last two concerts of the orchestra's 25th anniversary season.
 The concerts were scheduled for yesterday and today. 
They were to have featured Carl Orff's ''Carmina Burana,'' which calls for a large orchestra and chorus and would have cost $150,000 to produce. Earlier, orchestra executives had cancelled a Jan. 29 pops concert featuring the Motown singer Ben E. King, also because of slow ticket sales. 
 Fewer than 400 tickets had been sold for yesterday's concert, scheduled for the 1,800-seat auditorium at Hauppauge High School because the stage at Staller Center at Stony Brook University, a usual site for Philharmonic events, was too small. A second program was to be at the Tilles Center on the C.W. Post campus of Long Island University in Brookville.
 The Philharmonic's anniversary season has been its toughest financially in years, with a $250,000 deficit on a $2.1 million budget. The orchestra missed payroll deadlines for its November and February subscription programs, and for a New Year's Eve gala.
 The financial difficulties, which stem from a decline in corporate sponsorship and state financing in a weak economy, underscore the challenges of operating an orchestra in the shadow of New York City's musical offerings. Brian Wise


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); BUDGETS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



86 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3; TRAVEL ADVISORY

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Tourism Holds After Madrid Attacks

BYLINE: By SUSAN CATTO

 BODY:
To the surprise of many in the travel industry, last month's terrorist attack in Madrid appears to be having little effect on the willingness of Americans to visit Spain. The March 11 train bombings killed at least 190 people, and Spanish officials have arrested suspects with links to Muslim extremist groups. But early concerns that the attacks would devastate tourism -- an industry responsible for nearly 20 percent of Spain's gross domestic product -- now seem unwarranted. 
 More than 900,000 Americans visit Spain each year, but according to Julio Lopez Astor, director of the Tourist Office of Spain in Chicago, United States tour operators are reporting few cancellations and only a few dozen people have called his office with concerns. ''People just want the reassurance that it's a normal situation,'' Mr. Lopez Astor said. 
 Nor have airlines experienced mass cancellations. ''We're still booked pretty strongly through the summer,'' said Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman for Continental Airlines. At American Airlines, ''there's little measurable impact whatsoever,'' said Tim Wagner, a spokesman.
 According to an online poll of Carlson Wagonlit travel agents conducted from March 12 to 16, 6 percent of the 146 agents who responded reported that some clients had canceled trips to Spain. Nevertheless, some tour operators report that interest in Spain remains strong. Robin Tauck, head of Norwalk, Conn.-based Tauck World Discovery, said that very few of the 1,600 people scheduled to take the company's summer Spain tours have canceled; in fact, more than 60 new clients have signed up in recent weeks. ''I'm as surprised at this as others are,'' Ms. Tauck said.
 In Madrid, Gail Taylor, a specialist at the travel agency Madrid & Beyond, also said the effect had been ''quite the opposite to what we expected.'' The company, which deals mostly with American or British tourists, has had several cancellations, but bookings are strong over Easter and well into the fall. ''We've had many people confirming their trips and a huge number of inquiries as well,'' Ms. Taylor said. 
 While her United States clients do not seem unduly worried about security issues, Ms. Taylor said, some are afraid of encountering anti-American sentiment. Callers to the Spanish Tourist Office have also voiced this concern, which Mr. Lopez Astor is eager to dispel. He points out that the protests and anger that followed the bombings were directed at Spanish government policy, not at American citizens. 
 Still, while the initial impact of the bombing has been low, Mr. Lopez Astor does not rule out long-term damage to the tourism industry. ''We feel it's too early, and we cannot say for sure that this will not have an effect,'' he said. SUSAN CATTO


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Noordam will sail from Tampa to Lisbon. (Photo by Holland America Line) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TOURISM (89%); AIRLINES (88%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); ARRESTS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (50%) 

COMPANY: CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (68%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (68%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (68%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%)

PERSON: Susan Catto

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (95%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SPAIN (98%) Spain; Madrid (Spain)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



87 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2; Page Two: March 28-April 3

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Job Numbers Surge, And Economists Blush in Surprise

BYLINE: By Eduardo Porter

 BODY:
PITY Wall Street's economic forecasters.
 Since the end of last year they have been anticipating a big jump in employment only to be wrong-footed by the economy's meager job creation. In December, when they expected 150,000 new jobs, the economy delivered only 1,000. In January they forecast 175,000 but got 112,000. 
 When the Labor Department last month reported that 21,000 jobs were created in February, about a seventh of what forecasters had expected, many economists seemed to give in: perhaps there was, indeed, something fundamentally different about the economy that would inhibit job growth forever. Maybe the economy wasn't even growing as fast as they thought. 
 Economists pared down their expectations for job growth in March to about 120,000. It was a modest number, they thought. An improvement in the weather alone should help employment in construction. The end of the California supermarket strike might flush out the scabs, but re-hired union workers would more than compensate the loss. ''It goes with the territory,'' said James Glassman, an economist at JP Morgan Chase. ''When you are wrong several months running you tend to get cautious.'' 
 Yet in March the economy decided to deliver. According to the report released Friday by the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment grew by 308,000 jobs last month, the fastest rate since April 2000. Jobs grew across all categories, except manufacturing. Indeed, economic growth seemed finally to feed into jobs as economists had expected all along. 
 Conventional wisdom can take over again: job growth lagged behind the recovery because of high productivity growth, fueled by years of investment in information technology, and tough international competition, which forced employers to keep a lid on costs. Terrorist attacks in 2001 didn't help, nor did corporate wrongdoing in 2002, nor wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. But as the economy has powered ahead, businesses have inevitably started hiring again.
 Expect a big forecast for next month. Eduardo Porter


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (93%); JOB CREATION (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); STATISTICS (71%); IRAQ WAR (67%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (62%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



88 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2; Page Two: March 28-April 3

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: KING OF THE HILL AND THE HIGHWAY

BYLINE: By Carl Hulse

 BODY:
It may be good to be king, but it is better to be chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
 Representative Don Young, the gruff Republican from Alaska who heads the highway panel, used his position to help his home state vanquish almost all others in the pork-barrel contest that is the Congressional highway bill. 
In the $275 billion legislation approved by the House on Friday, Alaska took home more than $540 million for specific projects, or ''earmarks'' as they are known in pork-barrel parlance.
 According to an analysis by Taxpayers for Common Sense, a watchdog group, the value of the 29 public works jobs ranked Alaska, which has only one member of the House, fifth in terms of the home-state haul, well ahead of more heavily populated places like Florida, Pennsylvania and Ohio. Among Mr. Young's winnings:
 $200 million for the Knik Arm Bridge to connect Anchorage with Point McKenzie, an area state officials would like to open to new economic growth.
 $175 million for a bridge linking Ketchikan to the sparsely populated Island of Gravina, which has a trove of desirable timber.
 $15 million for Crook Creek Road to reach a remote gold mining venture.
 $3 million for roads at Alaska Pacific University (total 2004 fall enrollment: 673).
 There was even something for North Pole, Alaska (pop.: 1,680 within corporate city limits), with $1 million for pavement projects. Carl Hulse


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DON YOUNG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



89 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Decades After First Refugees, Readying for More Hmong

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
As Mo Chang, an official with this city's public schools, looked out over the curious, frightened faces of Hmong refugees in a grim camp in Thailand not long ago, she tried to glimpse their futures in America.
 She knew that many would learn English and go on, as she had, to find success in a place like St. Paul. Surely all would struggle -- with a new language, with nightmarish memories of war in Laos decades ago, with finding jobs and building lives in the United States, a place where taking the bus, buying groceries, simply walking down the street in winter could make life feel upside down.
 This summer, as many as 15,000 Hmong refugees will arrive in St. Paul and communities in California, Wisconsin and North Carolina. They have been living in limbo at Wat Tham Krabok, a camp in Thailand, after being driven from their mountain homelands in the waning days of the war in Southeast Asia. Now the United States has decided to take them in. 
 In many cities, even the biggest ones, this would seem a prescription for disaster: the instant arrival of thousands of immigrants, most of whom speak no English, lack skills and have little concept of this country, at a time when jobs are few and government budgets are strained.
 But even worse, as Ms. Chang and other visitors learned in Thailand, these newcomers will arrive doubly damaged -- first by the trauma of war, and then by years in settlements and camps like Wat Tham Krabok. Many suffer from malnutrition, post-traumatic stress, depression and suicidal thoughts. Only half of the children in the camp go to school.
 The troubles are monumental. But leaders in St. Paul insist that if this mass resettlement can work anywhere, it can work here.
 In the years since the Hmong began fleeing Laos, St. Paul has become home to one of the United States' largest concentrations of Hmong and, along the way, has produced its own Hmong-American leaders. They have, they say, a unique understanding of the cultural difficulties to be faced and the traumas the Hmong may have endured, and they want relatives to come here. The newcomers could begin arriving as early as June.
 Ms. Chang, a special projects coordinator and charter schools liaison for the St. Paul public school system, came to the United States from a similar Thai camp at age 10. In March she visited the refugees in their fenced, primitive settlement with an unusual delegation of some of St. Paul's top officials, including the mayor, Randy Kelly. Ms. Chang's voice broke as she recalled how she gazed at the refugees -- particularly the multitude of children -- and thought of her own harrowing past.
 ''That could have been my children,'' said Ms. Chang, 37. ''That could have been me. I felt that.''
 At least 25,000 people of Hmong descent live in St. Paul, a city of 300,000. They were drawn by social service agencies and church groups that helped the first arrivals nearly 30 years ago, and, later, by the tug of family who had come before. At least 20,000 more Hmong live elsewhere in Minnesota, and thousands more live around the country, in cities like Fresno, Calif., and Milwaukee.
 In the Vietnam War, the Central Intelligence Agency recruited Hmong in Laos to be part of a secret war against the Pathet Lao Communists, rescuing downed American pilots and fighting North Vietnamese soldiers. As the war ended, with Communists in power in Laos, thousands of Hmong fled into the jungles, to Thailand and beyond.
 They, and now their children and grandchildren, have left their imprint on St. Paul.
 Block after block, in shops along University Avenue, they sell sugar cane and shiny flowered fabrics in pinks and greens for traditional Hmong skirts. Thousands of Hmong children have learned English in the public schools. And behind hushed hallways of the social service agencies, Hmong counselors listen to newer arrivals tell hauntingly familiar stories, of escaping across the Mekong River and of trying to adjust to complex lives here.
 St. Paul is full of success stories: the first Hmong elected to an American state legislature, a Hmong school board member, top Hmong staff members in most political leaders' offices, Hmong lawyers, doctors, dentists, teachers, even comedians.
 But the experiences are mixed. Many have struggled anonymously.
 Pa Xa Vang, in his 40's, has learned little English since arriving in 1995. His brief trips into St. Paul, he said through an interpreter, only remind him of his isolation. He enters stores, makes transactions in silence and goes home. He said he was embarrassed that he could not help his nine children with homework. ''The future for me is dark,'' he said.
 His wife, Nai Yang, wept as she described fleeing Laos on a brother's back. He ran through the jungle for days, she said. Other family members were attacked, some killed, she said. The images flash in her mind daily.
 Her brother is at Wat Tham Krabok.
 Thai officials had tried to find other places to send the Hmong, but local and provincial leaders turned them away, the State Department said.
 So as authorities in Thailand conduct drug tests and processed applications, officials and other workers in St. Paul, as well as family members here, are racing to figure out how to handle the arrivals. No one knows yet how many of the 15,000 may move here, but as many as 5,000 Hmong-Americans in St. Paul have said they hope to sponsor relatives.
 Ms. Yang said she was eager to have her brother here, but worried about his adjustment. Besides, there is no room in her small house, she said. ''We don't have anything, so we don't have a plan for my brother,'' she said through an interpreter. ''We're ready for what the government is going to do. They must have a plan.''
 The prospect has been a shock to some in St. Paul, who say the economy is stretched to its limit. More than 4,500 families are on the city's waiting list for public housing. City officials complain of losing state revenue. And some private agencies for immigrants have had to cut staffing.
 The topic has become fodder for talk radio and calls to the mayor.
 Jim King, whose young daughter will start school in the fall, wrote to Mayor Kelly to inquire about how the schools will deal with more Hmong children and how his property taxes might be affected. 
 ''I don't want to sound insensitive, I really don't,'' Mr. King, 34, said to a visitor. ''I guess it just seems like the timing of this is tough.''
 Mayor Kelly agrees. ''We are not very well positioned from a financial standpoint to deal with this resettlement issue, it's true,'' he said. ''We are going to be challenged.''
 While federal authorities will provide $800 to each refugee through local agencies, and millions more for long-term programs meant for all 50,000 refugees who arrive this year from around the world, city officials and leaders of private agencies here said they were likely to struggle to pay for the plans they had.
 Still, hundreds of counselors, grant writers, volunteers and former Hmong refugees recently packed into an auditorium here with ambitious plans.
 They hoped to lead weekend fairs in which immigrants might sign up to learn English, job skills and the transit system. Others hoped to create ''talking circles'' for new arrivals to share their fears. And there is a proposal for mentors for parents of new students and for teenagers who might be tempted to join gangs.
 To those who complain of the costs of so many big plans, Cha Vang, who was 5 when he came to America, said he wondered whether they knew how the Hmong had helped the Americans a generation ago. ''This is exactly one of our fears,'' Mr. Vang said. ''People may not remember. Politicians have retired.''
 Mr. Vang's father, Gen. Vang Pao, led the Hmong in the war, and many still consider him their leader. In an interview here, General Pao, now in his 70's, said he was appreciative that the United States was accepting thousands more Hmong.
 But General Pao said he longed for a day when all Hmong -- even those still hiding in Laos or living on their own somewhere in Thailand -- might return in safety to Laos, which is still a Communist state.
 ''That is still our motherland,'' he said, ''and hopefully we can go back when democracy rules.''
 Along University Avenue here, Song Thao, who works behind the counter of the Wung Lee Supermarket and Jewelry store, said she rarely thought of leaving St. Paul.
 Ms. Thao is 16 and wears low-riding jeans. She said her friends were mostly white. She prefers rap to the Hmong songs on the cassettes her customers buy. She can speak Hmong, but not write it, and says she plans to marry in her late 20's, not far younger, as is Hmong tradition.
 Ms. Thao has never lived in Laos, and at the prospect of living there some day, she scrunched up her nose and shrugged. All she remembers is right here.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Thousands of Hmong refugees from Laos, in camps and on the margins of society in Thailand, are to be brought to the United States this summer. (Photo by Paula Bronstein/Getty Images)
Mai Thao, 86, is among the Hmong drawn to St. Paul by social services or by family ties.
Mayor Randy Kelly of St. Paul, where 25,000 Hmong already live, talks at the Lao Family Center about how to meet the needs of new refugees.
 William Yang, 42, and his wife, Chou Xiong, 41, who have 20 children, are expecting at least two relatives among new Hmong refugees. (Photographs by Ben Garvin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (76%); IMMIGRATION (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); MALNUTRITION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); SUICIDE (64%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (94%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



90 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Congress and White House End Taboo Against Tolls

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3 

 BODY:
Congress and the White House are still fighting over just how much to spend on highways, but they have resolved a 182-year-old dispute of more practical significance to most drivers, especially commuters stuck in traffic. The great taboo against tolls has ended.
 The legislators who approved the highway bill on Friday faced the same basic problem as the Congress of 1822, when the federal highway system consisted of a gravel road from Cumberland, Md., to the Ohio River that was said to be in ''a ruinous state.'' To pay for repairing the National Road, Congress proposed charging tolls, but President James Monroe vetoed the bill and set an enduring precedent. 
 Although some states later built their own toll roads, like the Pennsylvania and New Jersey Turnpikes, the federal government kept tolls off its roads through the 20th century. It required new stretches of the Interstate system to be toll-free, a policy that was long popular with drivers but is now blamed by many transportation experts for decrepit highways and worsening traffic jams.
 Now the White House wants to relax the taboo, and on Friday the House of Representatives went along by passing a highway bill that encourages new express toll lanes and roads. The details of the House bill must still be reconciled with the bill already passed by the Senate, but that version also encourages tolls.
 New tolls, which traffic engineers across America have been promoting as the cure to congestion, used to be considered political suicide because of longstanding opposition from automobile associations, truckers, bus companies and other industries. Their coalition, the American Highway Users Alliance, still lobbies fiercely against tolls on existing roads, but it endorsed the legislation permitting tolls on new lanes and roads.
 This change of heart was due partly to new technology, which allows tolls to be electronically collected via transponders in cars moving at expressway speeds, eliminating the need for toll booths. The change was also an acknowledgment of fiscal reality: there seems to be no other way to pay for new roads.
 The gasoline taxes that finance highways have been yielding less and less revenue because they are not indexed to inflation and because today's cars use less gasoline per mile. To bring revenues back to the inflation-adjusted levels of four decades ago, the federal and local gasoline taxes would have to be doubled -- an increase of 38 cents per gallon, which is not being considered. 
 Leaders in the House have proposed raising the federal gas tax, now 18 cents, by a nickel, or at least indexing it to inflation, but the Bush administration has opposed any tax increase. Attempts to raise the tax at the state level have also proved unpopular in referendums.
 ''The public would much rather pay for new roads with tolls than with higher taxes,'' said Representative Mark Kennedy, the Minnesota Republican who championed the legislation allowing tolls on new lanes or roads. ''If you put tolls on existing lanes, my guess is you're going to have a revolt. But if you give people stuck in traffic the option to pay to move into a fast-moving new lane, they're going to be happy.''
 Federal officials have allowed experiments with high-speed toll lanes in a few places, like San Diego and Houston, and those results encouraged the White House to expand the option. The new legislation would allow local officials elsewhere to create lanes guaranteeing drivers a speedy commute in return for a toll. New lanes could be created either by widening highways or by allowing solo drivers to pay a toll to use lanes now reserved for car pools. The tolls could also be raised in peak times.
 ''We can use tolls to manage demand,'' said Mary E. Peters, the administrator of the Federal Highway Administration. ''Our Interstate system left the public with the perception that roads are free and price shouldn't vary according to the demand you place on roads, but that's a fallacy. If you use the road at a peak time when many other people want to use it, then you should pay a higher price.''
 Samuel I. Schwartz, who coined the term ''gridlock'' when he was the traffic commissioner of New York City, said there was no way to solve the problem without a change in federal policy. ''Until now, if you tried to put tolls on any road built with federal dollars, you had to give back the dollars,'' he said. ''But we can't solve gridlock without pricing roads according to demand. We need that tool in our toolbox.''
 Some critics complain that tolls create ''Lexus lanes'' that are used disproportionately by the affluent. Representative James L. Oberstar, a Minnesota Democrat who opposed the toll provisions passed on Friday, has warned that imposing tolls ''could effectively close these roads to low-income workers'' and said new roads should be financed instead through increases in the gasoline tax.
 Others favor both financing options. ''I'd like to see higher gasoline taxes along with tolls,'' said Robert Atkinson, the vice president of the Progressive Policy Institute, the research arm of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council. ''As a Democrat, I look at tolling as a progressive tax system, because we can get higher-income people to pay tolls to build new roads, and lower-income people benefit without paying a cent because the existing free roads become less congested.'' 
 The House's highway bill would cost $275 billion, less than the $318-billion version passed by the Senate, but still higher than the White House's limit. President Bush threatened to veto any highway bill costing more than $256 billion. As the legislators try to negotiate a compromise, the potential extra revenue from tolls could be important.
 ''The only feasible way to bridge the gap between Congress's desire to invest more in highways and the White House's veto threat is with lots of opportunities for toll projects,'' said Robert Poole, the director of transportation studies at the Reason Public Policy Institute. He estimated that tolls could add up to $50 billion to what Congress is dispensing from the federal coffers, and said that local officials are eager to start new toll projects once the legislation is signed. 
 ''Most fast-growing states, like Colorado, Florida, North Carolina, Texas and Virginia, now see tolls playing a big part in meeting the need for more highway capacity,'' Mr. Poole said. ''It's time for the feds to get on board.''
 Tolls, incidentally, ultimately resolved the 19th-century battle over the National Road, which ran roughly along the present-day path of Route 40 between Cumberland and Wheeling, W.Va. After President Monroe vetoed any federal tolls in 1822, the road continued to deteriorate until a compromise was reached in the 1830's: The federal government transferred control of the road to the states, which then erected their own tollhouses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FUEL TAX (87%); VETO (79%); LOBBYING (79%); TAX LAW (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ENGINEERING (69%); GASOLINE (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); REFERENDUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CUMBERLAND, MD, USA (72%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



91 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2981 words

HEADLINE: Uneven Response Seen to Terror Risk in Summer '01

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and ERIC SCHMITT; David E. Sanger, Richard W. Stevenson and Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3 

 BODY:
On July 5, 2001, as threats of an impending terrorist attack against the United States were pouring into Washington, Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, and Andrew H. Card Jr., the president's chief of staff, directed the administration's counterterrorism office to assemble top officials from many of the country's domestic agencies for a meeting in the White House Situation Room.
 Even though the warnings focused mostly on threats overseas, Ms. Rice and Mr. Card wanted the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and other agencies put on alert inside the United States. Ms. Rice and Mr. Card did not attend the meeting, run by Richard A. Clarke, the White House counterterrorism coordinator. When the meeting broke up, several new security advisories were issued, including an F.A.A. bulletin warning of an increased risk of air hijackings intended to free terrorists imprisoned in the United States. 
 That meeting represented a peak moment in the Bush administration's efforts in the months before Sept. 11, 2001, to prevent a terrorist attack inside the United States. The issue of whether the meeting and the actions that preceded and followed it were a reasonable response to the gathering threat that summer now lies at the heart of the independent inquiry into the attacks. Ms. Rice will be questioned intensively about these matters when she appears in public on Thursday for the first time before the independent commission investigating the 2001 attacks, members of the commission said.
 A review of the Bush administration's deliberations and actions in the summer of 2001, based on interviews with current and former officials and an examination of the preliminary findings of the commission, shows that the White House's impulse to deal more forcefully with terrorist threats within the United States peaked July 5 and then leveled off until Sept. 11. 
 The review shows that over that summer, with terror warnings mounting, the government's response was often scattered and inconsistent as the new administration struggled to develop a comprehensive strategy for combating Al Qaeda and other terror organizations. 
 The warnings during the summer were more dire and more specific than generally recognized. Descriptions of the threat were communicated repeatedly to the highest levels within the White House. In more than 40 briefings, Mr. Bush was told by George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, of threats involving Al Qaeda.
 The review suggests that the government never collected in one place all the information that was flowing into Washington about Al Qaeda and its interest in using commercial aircraft to carry out attacks, and about extremist groups' interest in pilot training. A Congressional inquiry into intelligence activities before Sept. 11 found 12 reports over a seven-year period suggesting that terrorists might use airplanes as weapons.
 There were also no specific new military plans for attacking Qaeda forces or the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. The Pentagon's priorities that summer were developing a national missile defense plan and conducting a broad strategy and budget review. Military planners had previously offered a comprehensive plan to incorporate military, economic, diplomatic and political activities to pressure the Taliban to expel Al Qaeda's leader, Osama bin Laden. But the plan was never acted on by either the Clinton or Bush administrations.
 Money for fighting terrorism had to be justified against an array of other priorities, from tax cuts and education to missile defense. The White House Office of Management and Budget said in a report in August 2001 that counterterrorism programs were having difficulty competing.
 Mr. Clarke described the summer of 2001 in his new book, ''Against All Enemies,'' and in testimony last month before the commission. He said it was a time when his own Counterterrorism Security Group within the White House was at battle stations, but the broader policy deliberations continued at what he viewed as a plodding pace. Ms. Rice has said in interviews and recent exchanges with reporters that Mr. Clarke's description was wrong and that the White House had energetically sought to respond to terrorist threats as it moved to prepare its strategy to deal with Al Qaeda.
 Ms. Rice has said that Mr. Clarke offered a more positive assessment of White House actions in a note he sent her on Sept. 15, 2001, four days after the attacks. Mr. Clarke said in the note, ''When the era of national unity begins to crack in the near future, it is possible that some will start asking questions like, did the White House do a good job of making sure that intelligence about terrorist threats got to the F.A.A. and other domestic law enforcement authorities.'' He added, ''We convened on 5 July a special meeting of federal law enforcement agencies because we could not rule out the possibility that the attack would come in the United States.''

'A Stressful Summer'
C.I.A. Warnings With an Overseas Focus
 On March 7, 2001, President Bush's national security team, cautioned by C.I.A. officials and departing aides to President Bill Clinton that terrorism would be a serious problem, met for the first time to begin a broad review of the government's approach to Al Qaeda and Afghanistan.
 Stephen Hadley, Ms. Rice's deputy, told the Congressional committee, ''The goal was to move beyond the policy of containment, criminal prosecution and limited retaliation for specific attacks, toward attempting to roll back Al Qaeda.''
 Other aides said in interviews that the approach was two-pronged and included a crisis warning effort to deal with immediate threats and longer-range planning by senior officials to put into place a comprehensive strategy to eradicate Al Qaeda.
 Mr. Clarke was in charge of responding to immediate threats, one senior official said. He had been counterterrorism chief in the Clinton administration, and Ms. Rice had decided to keep him in the job because she wanted continuity. ''It was because everyone respected Dick Clarke and knew he was a pile driver,'' the official said.
 The warnings began almost immediately. In March, the C.I.A. said that ''a group of bin Laden operatives was planning to conduct an unspecified attack in the United States in April 2001. One operative allegedly resided in the United States,'' according to the Congressional report.
 The C.I.A. warnings created what the Congressional report called ''a stressful summer.'' Between May and July, the National Security Agency, which eavesdrops on communications around the world, reported 33 messages suggesting ''a possibly imminent terrorist attack,'' according to the Congressional report, without providing details.
 Some warnings seemed highly credible. One intelligence report in May indicated that Mr. bin Laden's followers were planning to infiltrate the United States from Canada to carry out an attack using high explosives -- a report that resonated with the arrest in December 1999 of Ahmed Ressam, who was caught with explosive chemicals trying to enter the country near Seattle.
 In June, a C.I.A. report said that important operatives in the bin Laden network were ''disappearing'' and that others were preparing for ''martyrdom.'' In July, the agency was told about an unidentified source who had recently been in Afghanistan. The source had reported, ''Everyone is talking about an impending attack.''
 Ms. Rice said that Mr. Tenet delivered many of the warnings directly to Mr. Bush. ''The president was briefed by George Tenet at least 40-some -- 40-plus of his briefings dealt in one way or another with Al Qaeda, or the Al Qaeda threat,'' she said on March 24 in a meeting with reporters. Mr. Tenet has said none of the warnings indicated that extremists planned to fly hijacked commercial aircraft into buildings in the United States.
 The warnings seemed to have little impact on the broader policy reappraisal that continued through the summer. By June, a draft of a presidential directive authorizing an ambitious covert action plan was circulating through the upper echelons of the administration, but there seemed little urgency about putting the plan into effect.
 At midsummer, with the bulk of the warnings focused overseas, Mr. Bush's national security aides ratcheted up efforts to protect American interests abroad. The C.I.A. identified 30 locations that might be targets of an attack and sought to disrupt groups of Qaeda followers. The State Department issued warnings to American travelers abroad.
 Mr. Bush's advisers also brought together the leaders of domestic agencies. Ms. Rice said that she brought them in on July 5, 2001. ''Let's make sure they're buttoning down,'' she recalled saying. One senior administration official who attended the meeting of the domestic agencies said the urgent tone of the summer meetings was clear.
 On July 6, Mr. Clarke sent Ms. Rice a previously undisclosed e-mail message outlining a number of steps agreed on at the meeting, including efforts to examine the threat of weapons of mass destruction and possible attacks in Latin America. One senior administration official said Mr. Clarke wrote that several agencies, including the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and the Pentagon, had been directed to develop what the official said were ''detailed response plans in the event of three to five simultaneous attacks.''
 Most officials still believed an attack would be aimed at Saudi Arabia or Israel. One senior F.B.I. official predicted there was a ''98 percent'' probability of an attack overseas. But the bureau, which had issued an advisory on July 2, and the F.A.A., which had issued a warning on June 22, issued still more advisories after the July 5 meeting.
 By July, most of the 19 hijackers who later took part in the Sept. 11 attacks had arrived in the United States, as plans for the hijacking, meticulously prepared in Germany and elsewhere for nearly three years, were coming to a final phase, without the knowledge of either the C.I.A. or the F.B.I.
 After the July 5 meeting, Ms. Rice has said, Mr. Bush continued to ask about any evidence of a domestic attack. C.I.A. officials have said they decided to prepare a briefing on the possibility of Qaeda operations inside the United State, including the use of aircraft in terror attacks.
 That briefing, on Aug. 6 at Mr. Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex., was mostly ''historical in nature'' and described past efforts to use aircraft in ''hijackings for ransom,'' rather than as weapons, said one official who has read the briefing material. 
 As summer wore on, the policy review remained unfinished. In part, Bush officials have said, they were vexed by diplomatic issues related to Pakistan and debated a combination of threats and incentives intended to compel Pakistani leaders to take a tougher stance toward the Taliban.
 It was not until Sept. 10 that a group of officials approved a three-phase strategy that became part of the presidential directive on Al Qaeda, including a fourfold financing increase for classified operations. But even then, there seemed little sense of urgency, although it called for the president to be updated every 120 days and advised senior officials to make terrorism a top priority. The directive envisioned a three- to five-year plan. It outlined a diplomatic mission to the Taliban and increased diplomatic pressure along with covert action. It envisioned military strikes, but only as a last resort.

Competing for Dollars
Limited Resources And Counterterrorism
 As it was developing a new policy, the Bush White House was also taking a hard look at the government's existing counterterrorism programs in the summer of 2001. Between 1998 and 2001, the last fiscal year for which President Clinton submitted a budget, counterterrorism spending across all government agencies grew by more than 50 percent, to $9.7 billion.
 But the Bush administration slowed the growth of many programs, and began looking at how to impose a strategic plan on a budget that until then had been driven largely by events and rapidly evolving threats.
 In August 2001, the White House's Office of Management and Budget noted that ''in our environment of constrained resources, critical programs to combat terrorism have difficulty competing with'' traditional programs in agencies throughout the government ''until an emergency throws them into the spotlight.'' In the report, issued just weeks before the attacks led the administration and Congress to pour huge new sums of money into fighting terrorism and improving domestic security, Mr. Bush proposed a 7 percent increase in overall spending on counterterrorism programs, a larger increase than was proposed for any cabinet department or agency other than education. The proposal included a $245 million increase in the 2002 budget to protect American embassies. 
 The report also called for a $6.6 million program to improve intelligence collection at ports of entry; an additional $10 million, for a total of $76.7 million, to help state and local authorities learn to detect biological warfare agents; and a $17.3 million increase for a program to help purchase special equipment for fire departments, emergency medical services and law enforcement agencies, bringing the cost to $126.7 million.
 But on Capitol Hill, the administration put relatively little political capital behind its proposals, choosing instead to emphasize its plan for a missile defense system. 
 When Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who was then chairman of the Armed Services Committee, sought to transfer money to counterterrorism from the missile defense program, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld sent a letter on Sept. 6 2001, , saying he would urge Mr. Bush to veto the measure. Mr. Levin nonetheless pushed the measure through the next day on a party-line vote.
 Behind the scenes, top officials were developing a plan for a fourfold increase in spending on classified programs to fight terrorism. White House officials said the substantial increases in overall counterterrorism spending in Mr. Bush's first budget showed that the issue was a top priority for the administration before Sept. 11.
 ''What the record demonstrates is a substantial and sustained commitment to combatting terrorism,'' said Joel Kaplan, deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget.

Military Options
Missile Defense And Other Priorities
 In the summer of 2001, the military was focused on priorities other than terrorism. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld, still waiting to fill several top civilian positions, including a top counterterrorism aide, was consumed with completing a broad strategic review of defense policies, updating war plans and developing the national missile defenses. 
 In private testimony to the commission, Douglas J. Feith, a senior policy aide, said his first assignment upon arriving in July had been to work on renouncing the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.
 The military was also seeking to toughen the no-fly operations over southern and northern Iraq, deal with the forcing down of a Navy spy plane by China in April, and review options to cut the number of American troops in Kosovo and Bosnia. 
 The military's main concern related to terrorism that summer was increasing protection for troops, ships and bases worldwide, a fear underscored in October 2000 when Qaeda operatives attacked the destroyer Cole in Yemen, killing 17 sailors. 
 In June 2001, American forces in the Persian Gulf region were placed on heightened alert because of the threat of terrorist attacks. Six ships from the Navy's Fifth Fleet stationed in Bahrain were put out to sea, out of harm's way.
 The broad quadrennial policy review Mr. Rumsfeld conducted in the months before the attacks was aimed in part at addressing a major shortcoming: the Defense Department was not organized or trained adequately to deal with what the military called asymmetric threats, including terrorist attacks at home or abroad. Yet Mr. Rumsfeld spent little time on terrorism issues, aides said in interviews. Counterterrorism officials in the Pentagon told the commission that Mr. Rumsfeld and his aides ''were not especially interested'' in their agenda. 
 Military options against Al Qaeda and its Taliban hosts were limited and sketchy, covering a broad array of options: inserting ground troops, ordering air strikes, attacking with ship-based cruise missiles. But the Pentagon was painfully aware that Afghanistan was 8,000 miles from the United States, a landlocked nation surrounded by neighbors, like Pakistan, that were unwilling to support military operations against the Taliban.
 No specific plans were developed before Sept. 11.
 The military had offered a more comprehensive proposal. Just before the change of administrations, the director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Lt. Gen. Gregory Newbold, prepared a plan to incorporate military, economic, diplomatic and political activities to pressure the Taliban to expel Osama bin Laden. 
 It was never acted on. The Bush White House deferred a recommendation by Mr. Clarke to aid the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance, calling it premature and saying it excluded Pashtun tribes in the south.
 Staff reports issued by the commission indicated that Mr. Rumsfeld had done nothing to order up new military plans, though his deputy, Paul H. Wolfowitz, was told by Mr. Hadley in June that the Pentagon would need to start preparing a fresh approach.
 Defense officials said this week that Mr. Rumsfeld had wanted to wait for Mr. Bush to approve the policy review before ordering new military options. ''To say that the secretary, on his own dime, was going to order a plan to root out Al Qaeda would have been putting the cart before the horse,'' said Larry Di Rita, the chief Pentagon spokesman.


GRAPHIC: Photos: AUG. 6, 2001 -- President Bush at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., on a day he was briefed on the possible use of aircraft by terrorists. (Photo by White House Photo)(pg. 1)
Donald H. Rumsfeld, Condoleezza Rice and Vice President Dick Cheney leaving the Pentagon with the president in August 2001. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 30)Chart/Photos: ''A Stream of Threats, an Emerging Strategy and an Unseen Plot''As terrorist threat warnings swelled in the summer of 2001, the Bush administration's response reached its peak on July 5 and leveled off afterward.Some threats reported to the Bush administration Between May and June, at least 33 intercepted messages suggested an imminent terrorist attack.MAY -- Reports of Osama bin Laden's associates entering the United States
departing for Britain, Canada and the U.S.JUNE -- Reports of Bin Laden operatives disappearing and of Al Qaeda's expectation of nearing attacks with major casualties.JULY -- The C.I.A. concludes that Mr. bin Laden will launch a significant attack against U.S. or Israeli interests in the coming weeks.LATE SUMMER -- Report of a Qaeda associate considering terrorist operations in the U.S., with no specifics.Some actions on the Qaeda threat taken by the Bush administrationEND OF MAYCondoleezza Rice, national security adviser, and George J. Tenet, C.I.A. director, meet. Richard A. Clarke, the White House counterterrorism chief, is asked to draft a policy to eliminate Al Qaeda.JUNE 7Mr. Clarke's staff circulates a draft of a phased plan to eliminate Al Qaeda over a period of three to five years. The policies are developed in four subsequent meetings at the deputy level.JUNE 22The Defense Department raises the security level for forces in the Persian Gulf region. Some ships of the Fifth Fleet leave port in Bahrain, and a Marine Corps exercise in Jordan is canceled and the troops withdrawn.JUNE 23The State Department issues a warning to all embassies and diplomatic posts, directing them to convene their emergency committees and take action to heighten security.JUNE 25Intelligence agencies warn of a high probability of a ''spectacular'' attack against American interests abroad by groups associated with Al Qaeda.JUNE 26The State Department warns Taliban representatives in Pakistan that the Taliban would be held responsible for terrorist attacks carried out by Mr. bin Laden or Al Qaeda.JULY 2The F.B.I. advises federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies of the warnings, noting that most suggest an attack overseas.JULY 5Ms. Rice and Mr. Clarke bring law enforcement and domestic agencies into threat discussions. Officials from many agencies, including the F.B.I. and the F.A.A., meet and issue alerts.AUG. 6President Bush's daily briefing includes a review of Mr. bin Laden's methods of operation since 1997, and suggests that Al Qaeda might seek to hijack aircraft.SEPT. 4The first cabinet-level meeting on Al Qaeda is held.SEPT. 10The phased three-to five-year plan to eliminate Al Qaeda is approved at a meeting of the deputies.Activities of the 19 hijackersMAYSix of the hijackers, including the four pilots, have been in the United States since at least 2000, although one, Khalid al-Midhar, left the country in June 2000 after flight training in San Diego.JUNEThe last of the 13 hijackers whose job is to serve as the ''muscle'' on the flights overcoming the pilots and restraining the passengers arrive in the United States.JULYMr. Midhar returns to the United States from Saudi Arabia. Mohamed Atta travels to Madrid via Zurich, returning to the United States on July 19. All 19 hijackers are now in the United States.AUGUSTBetween Aug. 25 and 31, most of the hijackers buy their tickets for the four flights on Sept. 11.SEPTEMBERMr. Midhar and another hijacker buy their tickets with cash at the American Airlines counter at Baltimore-Washington International Airport on Sept. 5.(Sources by Report of the joint Congressional inquiry into the Sept. 11 attacks
 staff statements and transcripts of the Sept. 11 commission hearings)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HIJACKING (78%); TALIBAN (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); JORDAN (74%); GULF STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



92 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20; Political Points

LENGTH: 1016 words

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY; Brian Wingfield contributed reporting for this column.

 BODY:

We Got a Check From Whom?
 ARE rich Republicans conniving to help George W. Bush by bankrolling Ralph Nader's campaign? That's what some Democrats have been muttering, so we checked out the Republicans who have been giving him money.
 In February, the first month of the Nader campaign, it received generous donations from 11 people who had previously given money to Mr. Bush or to the Republican Party, according to an analysis by the Center for Public Integrity, a nonpartisan research group. We contacted them all to ask why their political preferences seemed so, uh, diverse. 
 Three of the donors refused to discuss their reasons for giving to the Nader campaign, but most of the others gave explanations that sounded plausible: Mr. Nader was an old friend of theirs or of their spouse; a friend invited them to a Nader fund-raiser; they simply liked his crusading style. Ben Stein, the writer, economist, former Nixon speechwriter and game-show host, said Mr. Nader had won $500 of his money because he and Mr. Nader had long been allies in fighting securities fraud.
 ''If he gets into the debates and raises issues about securities fraud that no one else has raised, I consider it money well donated,'' said Mr. Stein, who also mentioned another incentive: His teenage son wants to volunteer in the Nader campaign. ''I thought this money might help buy him a few paper clips so he does not have to take them from home,'' Mr. Stein said.
 Jeno Paulucci, the frozen-foods entrepreneur who created Jeno's Pizza Rolls and has given nearly $70,000 to Mr. Bush and the Republican Party in recent years, said his $2,000 donation to the Nader campaign reflected a longstanding admiration. ''He's a good guy and he's done a lot of good in his time,'' Mr. Paulucci said.
 Even if some other Republicans have sneakier motives for helping Mr. Nader, so far only 3 percent of the money given to his campaign has come from donors with a G.O.P. connection, according to the Center for Public Integrity. It might be good strategy for Republicans to support Mr. Nader, but there is not much incentive for any individual Republican to give up his own money. Donations to the Bush campaign are rewarded with invitations to parties, photographs with the president, chits for future favors. But when a Republican gives to Mr. Nader, the only thing to expect is a permanent spot on Mr. Nader's mailing list.

The Fools On the Hill
 YOU might think April Fool's Day would be a pleasant respite from Washington's official dreariness, but there were not a lot of smiles on Thursday at the local pranks. The journalists frantically dispatched to the Capitol to cover Senator Arlen Specter's retirement were not amused to discover it was the fantasy of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
 That news release at least had a few jokes in it, like the supposed upcoming memoir titled ''The Two Faces of Arlen Specter.'' But the Democratic National Committee's news release about the Bush and Kerry campaigns agreeing to a series of debates was utterly jokeless, and was reported on CBS's Marketwatch before it was revealed as a hoax.
 The Republican National Committee showed a lighter touch in its announcement that John Kerry's French cousin was supporting President Bush, and at least the news release was clearly labeled an April Fool's joke. Planned Parenthood also clearly revealed that its version of the White House Web site was a spoof. It did not, however, reveal why ''President Creates New Department of Wombland Security'' and ''Occupied Uterus Subject to Housing Code'' were funny.
 The best prank was probably Roll Call's front page on Thursday, which fooled some stunned staff members on Capitol Hill with the scoop that members of Congress were addressing the federal deficit by taking $20,000 pay cuts.
 But the most surprising news of the day came on stationery with the letterhead of the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq. The news release, dated April 1, announced that a new chapter of the Optimist Club had just formed in Baghdad. Coming the day after the killings and mob violence in Falluja, this seemed like a gruesome joke. But a call to Laura Boyd at the St. Louis headquarters of the Optimist clubs confirmed there was indeed a new chapter in Baghdad. ''The recent news doesn't seem to faze them over there,'' Miss Boyd said. ''They're very upbeat.''

This Flop Was the Flippingest
 WE spent April 1 gravely sifting through entries for the Golden Spatula Award, given to the previous month's best flip-flop. Mr. Bush came on strong last week with his announcement that Condoleezza Rice would testify before the 9/11 commission -- never mind all that previous talk about the solemn need to preserve executive privilege.
 It was a perfect 180-degree flip, although it could not match the beautiful simplicity of Mr. Kerry's statement about providing money to Iraq: ''I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it.'' The Kerry line is already a classic, but even it was not enough to win the Golden Spatula. After all, Mr. Kerry's explanation that he voted for an amendment paying to finance the Iraq appropriation by rescinding tax cuts did make a certain amount of sense. 
 But try to fathom the logic of the respondents to a New York Times/CBS News poll last month. In response to one question, a solid majority of 59 percent declared themselves in favor of a constitutional amendment allowing marriage only between a man and a woman. Then, three questions later, another solid majority declared that defining marriage was not ''an important enough issue to be worth changing the Constitution for.''
 What? The explanation from pollsters is that talk of ''changing the Constitution'' sounds more radical to most people than adding an ''amendment.'' But imagine if a politician in a televised debate tried articulating that position: ''I want to amend the Constitution, not change it.'' It would be a career-ending gaffe. As we voters accept this Golden Spatula, maybe we can begin to understand why politicians so often try to have it both ways. They just want what we want.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); FROZEN FOODS (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RALPH NADER (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



93 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: They Took Manhattan

BYLINE: By Kevin Baker. 
Kevin Baker is the author of the historical novels ''Dreamland'' and ''Paradise Alley.''

 BODY:

THE ISLAND AT THE CENTER OF THE WORLD
The Epic Story of Dutch Manhattan
and the Forgotten Colony
That Shaped America.
By Russell Shorto.
Illustrated. 384 pp. New York:
Doubleday. $27.50.
 ''A nd as the moon rose higher the inessential houses began to melt away until gradually I became aware of the old island here that flowered once for Dutch sailors' eyes -- a fresh, green breast of the new world,'' F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote on the greatest last page in American letters. On the grounds of Jay Gatsby's abandoned Long Island estate, Nick Carraway broods over the ''transitory enchanted moment man must have held his breath in the presence of this continent . . . face to face for the last time in history with something commensurate to his capacity for wonder'' before he lets himself be borne back to the Midwest, along ''the dark fields of the republic.'' 
 And yet, Henry Hudson's entrance into New York Harbor has never gained full iconic status in the American experience. When it comes to the old Dutch colony of New Netherland and its capital, New Amsterdam, which took root on Manhattan Island in 1624, we tend to accept at face value Washington Irving's comic Knickerbocker caricatures, depicting a bunch of fat, bumptious graspers -- a colony full of overgrown hobbits. Surely such a people could not have contributed anything to the national character remotely approaching the influence of, say, those dour Puritans up in Massachusetts. 
 Russell Shorto, in his masterly new history, ''The Island at the Center of the World,'' begs to differ. The author of ''Gospel Truth,'' about the search for the historical Jesus, among other books, Shorto has taken up nearly as intrepid a pursuit here. ''If what made America great was its ingenious openness to different cultures,'' he writes, ''the small triangle of land at the southern tip of Manhattan Island is the birthplace of that idea: This island city would become the first multiethnic, upwardly mobile society on America's shores, a prototype of the kind of society that would be duplicated throughout the country and around the world.'' 
 New Netherland was supposed to be just one more in a series of trading posts that the audacious new Dutch republic was germinating around the world, a private fief of the Dutch West India Company designed to pump more wealth into the extraordinary cultural and economic boom then transforming the mother country. But somehow, as Shorto puts it: ''New Netherland refused to remain a trading post. It was unique among the way stations of the Dutch empire in that it insisted on becoming a place'' -- and one that seemed almost magnetically drawn to the center of world events. From its very inception, New Amsterdam was a remarkably restless, ambitious, polyglot little seaport. ''It was Manhattan, in other words,'' he says, ''right from the start.'' 
 What Shorto has hit upon is nothing less than the true dichotomy at the heart of the American story, the fact that most of our ancestors came to this land for material as well as idealistic reasons (to properly recognize the experience of African-Americans, people brought here against their will, one must actually make it a triptych, but that is another story). Both motivations were complex. While Shorto concedes the innate ''messiness'' of colonial Manhattan, a place where at one point a quarter of all buildings were devoted to the production or consumption of alcohol, religious dissenters flocked to the Dutch colony to escape persecution up on Massachusetts Bay. Meanwhile, the Puritans' ''shining 'city on a hill' became Manifest Destiny, and morphs easily into a cheap battle cry.'' 
 A new foundation myth requires a new progenitor. The Dutch republic was nearing the end of an 80-year war for national independence and religious freedom, and while tolerance at the time meant something closer to ''putting up with'' than ''celebrating'' diversity, as Shorto observes, the Dutch had developed a very modern appreciation of free thought, epitomized by the fact that this remarkable little country published an estimated one-half of all the world's books over the course of the 17th century. 
 Yet it is one thing to describe the cultural golden age of the nation that produced New Amsterdam and another to prove its influence upon the realized American nation. Shorto centers his story on the battle between two critical players in Dutch Manhattan, Peter Stuyvesant and Adriaen van der Donck. Stuyvesant, the wily, flinty soldier who had lost a leg fighting for the company on St. Martin, was mainly concerned with thwarting both the encroachments of the expansionary New England colonies and the demands for self-government from his subjects within. Van der Donck is a less well known but even more intriguing figure; a lawyer with the soul of a poet, punctilious enough to attach eight footnotes to a single sentence, but also a man capable of living for months among the Indians, and who kept breaking into rapturous descriptions of the New World in his neglected classic, ''A Description of New Netherland.'' Van der Donck's quest to remake New Netherland in the republican image of the mother country set him inevitably in opposition to Stuyvesant. 
 Ultimately, both men's aims would be frustrated, but their conflict forced the West India Company to grant the colony a charter, under which most citizens of New Amsterdam came to enjoy exceptional rights and freedoms, living as real stakeholders in an opportunity society. These liberties would survive the English takeover of the colony in 1664, and Shorto convincingly traces a direct line from their achievement straight to the New York State Legislature's decision in 1787 not to ratify the Constitution unless ''a bill of specific individual rights were attached to it.'' 
 Why has the Dutch side of our national story remained so obscure for so long? In part because the historical records of New Netherland have literally been buried by the winners in one moldy archive after another, and not the least entertaining part of Shorto's book is his narrative of how these records managed to survive over 300 years of flood, fire and indifference. He generously credits the research other scholars have done to bring these invaluable materials back to the surface, as they translated some 12,000 sheets of rag paper from the 17th-century Dutch. 
 Taking full advantage of these newly recovered sources, Shorto makes frequent, deft excursions from New York to the Netherlands and England, Brazil and Curacao; and the slave coast of Guinea to the Spice Islands and the German battlefields of the Thirty Years' War; and to Hartford and Boston and that hotly contested colonial prize, New Jersey. He portrays a formidable cast of historical actors -- the cunning, murderous fanatic who was Cromwell; the Stuarts, with all their dogs and horses and mistresses. Poor Henry Hudson, so caught up in his quest for the Northwest Passage that he was still asking, ''What do you mean by this?'' when his starving, freezing sailors finally set him and his young son adrift to die in a small boat, in the bay that would come to bear his name. 
 New York history buffs will be captivated by Shorto's descriptions of Manhattan in its primordial state, of bays full of salmon and oysters, and blue plums and fields of wild strawberries in what is now Midtown. Here the reader may learn, among many other historical tidbits, what the Dutch really paid for Manhattan (it wasn't $24), or the key role that Flushing played in securing freedom of conscience, or why the Knicks wear blue-and-orange uniforms, or how Yonkers, the Hutchinson River and Saw Mill River Parkways, Greenwich Village and Staten Island got their names. Yet Shorto never overwhelms one with trivia, and he writes at all times with passion, verve, nuance and considerable humor. 
 If there is a flaw in ''The Island at the Center of the World,'' it may be Shorto's underplaying of how the patroon system -- a semifeudal arrangement the West India Company allowed to be grafted onto its holdings -- undermined democracy in upstate New York even well into the 19th century. Yet over all, Shorto's basic premise is undeniable. The legacy of tolerance from the Dutch colony in Manhattan would be extended, as he writes, ''into the very heart of the continent, crossroads settlements transformed into cities, lights winking on in the dusk of the endless landscape, each with its cluster of founding ethnic groups: Toledo, Cleveland, Detroit, Buffalo, Milwaukee, Chicago, Green Bay'' -- deep into the dark fields of the Republic, indeed.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Boris Kulikov)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (68%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: WEST INDIA CO OF MERCHANT BANKERS LTD (51%)

PERSON: Kevin Baker; Russell Shorto

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



94 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2291 words

HEADLINE: Town Dump's Buried Treasure: Location

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

DATELINE: CARTERET, N.J. 

 BODY:
FOR more than 20 years, the old town dump here stood disused and ugly, a landscape of mounds of dirt and discarded objects atop a 70-acre foundation of garbage and debris. Now, however, because of its location a few miles from the port and its access to the New Jersey Turnpike, it is on its way to becoming an attractive redevelopment site for warehouse-distribution centers.
 A private development group is prepared to invest $30 million to clean up the site and adjacent privately owned land to make the area suitable for new construction.
 Why undertake such a difficult project? ''Location, location, location,'' said Paul Slayton, a partner in Slayton Development Group of Garden City, N.Y., which is part of the venture.
 ''It is central,'' he said, ''to the biggest population center and business district in the United States and 10 minutes from Newark Airport and the seaport. It is right off Exit 12 and will have marvelous visibility.'' 
 With restrictions on suburban sprawl taking hold in New Jersey and financial incentives available for cleanups, well-located former garbage dumps -- most closed in the 70's and 80's for environmental reasons -- and other contaminated land are becoming increasingly popular as sites for industrial, retail and residential development.
 The Jersey Gardens outlet mall sits on the site of the town dump in Elizabeth, and a golf course is being built on the Bayonne dump. The chief executive of Cherokee Investment Partners, a large developer of contaminated properties, known as brownfields, said that his company expected to break ground this spring on a golf-oriented resort on four old dumps in the Meadowlands region.
 The ambitious plan is expected to include 27 or 36 holes of golf in the first phase plus a clubhouse, hotels, office buildings, homes and retail areas. A second phase would add 36 more holes on two other landfills in North Arlington and Kearney with related developments.
 Cherokee also plans a development along the Delaware River in Camden that would include residential and retail elements and a golf course on an 89-acre dump that now blocks community access to the waterfront.
 Besides providing recreation, these golf projects are expected to improve the local air and water quality by capping the old dumps and treating the methane gas produced by rotting garbage and restricting the movement of rainwater through the property. Water seeping through a landfill absorbs minerals and can contaminate groundwater and nearby rivers and lakes. Tom Darden, the chief executive of Cherokee, based in Raleigh, N.C., said these projects are moving forward because New Jersey has adopted a more attainable approach to environmental cleanups than in the past and offers incentives that pay for 75 percent of cleanup costs. ''In the past, regulations required that you remove every molecule, regardless of the risk,'' he said. ''Now they are risk based.''
 New Jersey changed its brownfield laws in the 1990's, and real estate executives say the changes led to the projects now under way or in planning. New York State changed its law last year, and there too sites that have been abandoned or underutilized for decades may be put back into service.
 New York's new law ''reduces liability and provides grants and smoother procedures,'' said Howard D. Feiler, executive vice president of Geo Oxidation Services, an environmental engineering company in Rye, N.Y. ''Projects will go ahead in places that have been abandoned for years or at best used as parking lots.''
 Golfing in the Meadowlands, with the skyline of Manhattan in the distance is one thing, but brownfield development is also coming to the gritty industrial parts of New Jersey, particularly along its northeastern waterfront. This area, from Jersey City to Perth Amboy, was thick with chemical plants and other heavy industries because of its access to ship traffic.
 Many of these companies ceased operations or moved elsewhere, leaving a legacy of contaminated land. Some of it has already been reused in places like Jersey City and Hoboken for office and residential buildings on the west coast of the Hudson.
 ''The whole gold coast of New Jersey,'' a waterfront strip of office buildings and luxury high-rise apartment towers facing Manhattan across the Hudson, ''is built on contaminated land,'' said Daniele Cervino, vice president and general counsel of Environmental Waste Management Associates, a cleanup company in Parsippany, N.J. She said New Jersey has been ahead of the federal government in dealing with brownfields. ''The trend has been to convert manufacturing sites to residential use,'' she said. ''The need is there, and there is capital available to do it.''

Eyeing Brownfields
The Appeal Of Nearby Ships
 Now interest is shifting to places like Carteret, which faces nothing more glamorous than the closed Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island -- although that view will improve in future years as the landfill becomes parkland.
 The reason for the interest in environmentally scarred areas like the Carteret dump is that shipping traffic has increased, as imports continue to flood into the ports of Newark and Elizabeth. The volume of traffic at the port increased 13 percent from 2002 to 2003.
 The rise in imports is expected to continue, and port managers are seeking to improve the flow of mostly containerized freight by improving transportation and pushing nonessential operations away from the immediate port area. This creates demand for warehouses and distribution centers that are close in, rather than a trip of 45 minutes to an hour to the warehouse complexes at turnpike Exits 8A and 7A.
 Planners have long advocated using brownfields near the port for warehousing and light manufacturing. Many goods imported from Asia need some processing -- such as attaching price tags to apparel -- before they can be shipped to stores. Operations of this sort, they have argued, could provide jobs to workers laid off as manufacturing has been transferred overseas.
 Because many brownfields in northeastern New Jersey were formerly manufacturing or processing operations, they are usually close to transportation links and have access to utilities and telecommunications.
 ''We don't have any greenfields here,'' said Daniel J. Reiman, the mayor of the borough of Carteret, as a four-wheel drive truck bounced and bucked over the hills of the old town dump, which accounts for about 70 acres of a 117-acre redevelopment district. Brownfield developments, he said, will put unproductive land back into use and generate badly needed taxes for the town of about 23,000 people.
 The Slayton group, in partnership with Panattoni Properties of Sacramento, Calif., plans to use the dump site and some additional property to build two warehouse-distribution centers, one with 1.2 million square feet of space and one with 220,000 square feet. It will pay the town $1.5 million for its property, Mr. Reiman said.
 Mr. Slayton said a tax-exempt bond issue was under discussion to finance the land purchases and construction. He said the buildings would be state of the art, with 36-foot ceilings and space for parking trailers.
 Mr. Slaylon said that he would love to find a tenant before construction begins but that the project would go forward on speculation if none had been signed. The project will be called iPort 12, the International Trade and Logistics Center at Carteret, said Aaron Malinsky, a partner at Slayton.
 The original plans were for the Jersey Gardens mall to take the Carteret dump site, but the first developer failed to start the project, and it subsequently moved a few miles up the turnpike to Elizabeth, Mr. Reiman said. With the growth of freight traffic, he said, using the land for warehouse-distribution centers became a more attractive application. 
 About a half mile away, on the site of an old chemical factory that is being demolished, the Catellus Development Corporation, a real estate investment trust, is preparing to build a 360,000-square-foot warehouse-distribution center on 25 acres of land, also on speculation. Officials of Catellus, based in San Francisco, said the port was the primary attraction for the company, which is seeking additional industrial projects in the area. 

Public Policy Changes
Why Cleanups Look More Viable
 According to brokers, there are brownfield development projects under way or planned in Woodbridge and Perth Amboy, to the south of Carteret, and to the north in Carlstadt and Jersey City, where two speculative buildings in Greenville Yards are being developed by Keystone Property Trust of suburban Philadelphia. 
 Officials of the Nascar auto racing circuit are interested in a site in Linden, brokers say, for a racetrack, having failed to locate one in the Meadowlands. Other developers are contending for the same location, and no decision has been made.
 The brownfield redevelopment activity going on today is the result of a combination of factors, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''First, the state got involved in brownfield public policy in the 1990's. Second, developers were getting whipsawed in the suburbs as highway traffic increased. But municipalities with brownfields welcomed them with open arms. And the governor's 'smart growth' policy has encouraged the reuse of underutilized land.''
 Ms. Cervino, the environmental-cleanup executive, added a developer's perspective. ''Septic and storm water rules are curbing development in the suburbs, so it is very difficult to sprawl,'' she said. ''Now the emphasis is on in-fill development.''
 State help in rebuilding the often clogged Exit 12 is an important component in the planning for the Carteret warehouses, developers say. The new design would connect the turnpike's truck lanes to Industrial Avenue in Carteret, which runs past the redevelopment areas. This would take trucks off borough streets. Heavy truck traffic, often around the clock, can cause citizen opposition to industrial projects. 
 Because tenants in warehouses that are close to the port do not have the labor and equipment expenses involved in making the trips to the distribution centers at Exits 8A and 7A, rents near Exit 12 are expected to be higher than those in central New Jersey, according to Stanley B. Danzig, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company. He said annual rents near Carteret and Woodbridge are about $6 to $7 per square foot, compared with the high $4's and low $5's at 8A and 7A for comparable new buildings, which usually have the advantage of more parking and turnaround space for trucks. But they are less than the $8's charged in the Meadowlands and the $7's in Jersey City, both of which offer easier access to Manhattan.
 Much of the northeastern part of Carteret shows the legacy of its industrial past. Hundreds of tanks that once contained fuel and industrial chemicals are near the waterfront. In addition to the municipal dump, there are privately owned landfills that were once used to dispose of often-toxic waste from chemical plants.
 In light of current environmental sensitivities, some practices of the past seem astonishing. ''There was a big, polluting chemical plant in Linden that sent its liquid wastes to pits in Carteret,'' Mr. Reiman said.

Financial Impact
How the Project Would Help Carteret
 But if the brownfield reclamation plan, which has several phases, is successful it has the potential to transform the borough's finances, he added.
 He said the planned developments would double the borough's current assessed property value of $1 billion, producing an additional $13 million a year in local taxes. Selling the town dump to the Slayton group would also save the municipality the $30 million that the cleanup is expected to cost.
 Mr. Slayton said engineering studies are under way to figure the best way to clean up the old dump to a level that would allow industrial use and prepare the site to support a heavily laden warehouse. Since dumps were often in marshy areas -- then considered bug-infested wastes, not highly productive wetlands -- supporting the buildings might be complicated. 
 Another issue is subsidence, a sinking on the surface as the garbage underneath rots away. One reason golf courses are built on old dumps is that the course can simply be regraded if the hills start to slump. Obviously, that would not work under a major building. ''All of that is being studied now,'' Mr. Slayton said. Supporting the buildings on pilings driven down to bedrock is one option under consideration, he said.
 Mr. Reiman said the brownfields developments are also intended to reconnect the town to its waterfront. This has been an ongoing theme, not only in New Jersey, but up the Hudson Valley and on the Long Island and Connecticut coastline.
 During the industrial age, waterfront locations were often taken over by companies to take advantage of the economies of water transportation. As those industries faded or moved, they often held on to their waterfront sites, either to keep their options open or to avoid cleanup costs. For example, Mr. Reiman said, DuPont bought a waterfront site in Carteret about 100 years ago and has let it sit vacant for the last 60 years.
 Now the town is building a waterfront park on the Arthur Kill, the water that separates it from Staten Island. Right now, there are a small boardwalk and fishing pier, but there are plans to dredge out a nearby cove for a marina that could accommodate 250 boats.
 The closing of the Fresh Kills landfill -- itself a huge brownfield -- made the park possible, Mr. Reiman said. ''Now that we don't have the smells and the seagulls,'' he said, ''it's pleasant.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Next to the New Jersey Turnpike and not far from the port, the Carteret town dump is seen as an attractive redevelopment site. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Reusing brownfields like the dump may double Carteret assessed values.
Old chemical factory is being demolished to make way for a warehouse.
 Carteret is building a waterfront park on Arthur Kill, with views of activity in the busy port. Ultimately, a cove is to be dredged out nearby for a marina for 250 boats across from the former Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 8)Map of New Jersey highlighting Carteret. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GOLF (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); BROWNFIELD SITES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); WATER POLLUTION (70%); RIVERS (69%); LAKES (66%); METHANE (66%); RETAILERS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); SUBURBS (52%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Landfill

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (71%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Carteret (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



95 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14; DataBank

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: On Wall Street, Applause for Job Growth

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Is the ''jobless recovery'' finally over? Wall Street seems to think so.
 Stocks ended the week -- and began the second quarter -- on a strong note after the government reported Friday that the economy created 308,000 jobs in March, nearly triple the number that economists had expected. 
Worries about the stubbornly weak jobs market had contributed to bearish sentiment in recent weeks.
 ''The jobless-recovery theories are now unquestionably baseless,'' Louis G. Navellier, a money manager from Reno, Nev., said in market commentary on Friday. 
 Although stocks stayed in positive territory for most of the week, two important indexes posted a loss for the first quarter, which ended on Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 0.92 percent and the Nasdaq composite was off 0.46 percent for the quarter. The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 1.29 percent.
 For the week, however, the Dow soared 257.62 points, or 2.5 percent, to close at 10,470.59. The Nasdaq climbed 97.15 points, or 5 percent, to 2,057.17, while the S.&P. 500 rose 36.75 points, or 3 percent, to 1,141.81. 
 In the bond market, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note jumped to 4.14 percent, from 3.83 percent a week earlier. VIVIAN MARINO


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Sabre HoldingsNYSE: TSGShares soared after the travel reservation system operator raised its forecast for the current quarter and the year, citing strong bookings and lower-than-expected expenses.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $25.10WEEK'S CHANGE: +21.49%EST. '04 P/E: 19.98Best BuyNYSE: BBYThe consumer electronics retailer reported strong fourth-quarter profits, beating expectations, raised its outlook for the current quarter and reiterated its forecast for the year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $53.92WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.89%EST. '04 P/E: 18.86QLogicNNM: QLGCThe company, whose circuit boards, chips and switches connect computers to storage devices, said it expected a revenue shortfall for the fourth quarter because of a drop in sales and declining orders from manufacturers.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.05WEEK'S CHANGE: -23.56%EST. '04 P/E: 21.68General MotorsNYSE: GEThe automaker said sales rose 6.3 percent last month. It predicted strong sales in coming months, but also said incentives like interest-free financing would continue.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $31.06WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.19%EST. '04 P/E: 19.72American International GroupNYSE: AIGA.I.G., Pfizer and Verizon all rose after an announcement that they will be added to the Dow Jones industrial average.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $74.30WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.86%EST. '04 P/E: 16.59Tyco InternationalNYSE: TYCThe judge in the corruption trial of two former Tyco executives declared a mistrial on Friday. Tyco said it would pursue civil litigation against the two. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.22WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.56%EST. '04 P/E: 19.33Brookfield HomesNYSE: BHSThe home builder and land developer declared a special dividend of $278 million, or $9 a share.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $37.18WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.45%EST. '04 P/E: --Countrywide FinancialNYSE: CFCShares of the mortgage lender fell Friday, as did those of house builders and home improvement retailers, as a strong jobs report pushed bond prices lower. As a result, mortgage rates could rise.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $91.25WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.82%EST. '04 P/E: 8.53(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%) 

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (55%) NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



96 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12; Executive Life

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: The Turnover at the Top May Be Slowing

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
MITCHELL KERTZMAN had spent more than two decades running two technology companies when he took the helm at Liberate Technologies, a Silicon Valley start-up company, in 1998. But last year, after five years as chief executive, he stepped down.
 With the technology slump of the last few years and an accounting scandal at Liberate that led to the ouster of the chief operating officer, ''I just got tired of being a C.E.O.,'' Mr. Kertzman said. He handed the top job to his successor in what he described as a friendly transition and became a general partner at the venture capital firm Hummer Winblad. 
 The average tenure of chief executives fell in recent years, as the dot-com bubble burst, corporate accounting scandals proliferated and boards grew increasingly impatient with underperforming chief executives. But now, as the economy shows signs of rebounding and corporate misdeeds seem to be surfacing less often, that average may be starting to rebound, consultants and outplacement specialists said.
 In 1995, the average tenure for a chief executive was 11.4 years, according to a survey by the consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton. By 2001, that number had dropped to 8.2 years. In 2002, it rose to 10.4 years -- but involuntary departures accounted for 39 percent of turnover in 2002, versus 25 percent a year earlier. In its study, Booz-Allen said, ''The professional life of a large company's chief executive increasingly resembles that of the Hobbesian man: It is nasty, brutish and short.''
 Chuck Lucier, senior vice president emeritus at Booz Allen, said that while the firm's 2003 report was not yet complete, he expected to see increases in chief executives' tenure from 2002 levels. ''What's happening recently is that we're getting closer to normal,'' he explained. But he said he did not expect chief executive tenure to climb sharply anytime soon.
 ''You might think with all the corporate governance in place today, we'd be at higher levels now than in 1995,'' he said, ''but if there's a greater willingness to let people implement their plans, there is also less patience by shareholders for those who don't deliver.'' 
 A more recent study, by Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an outplacement firm, compared the number of chief executives changing jobs in successive months to assess the turnover rate at the top. January is typically a month of heavy turnover, but according to the report, just 50 chief executives left their jobs in January, 25 percent fewer than the 67 who left in December 2003. It was the first time since the firm began tracking chief executive turnover in August 1999 that there were fewer changes in January than December. 
 The report also noted that the chief executives who left their jobs in December and January had spent an average of 9.7 years in those jobs, compared with 6.9 years for chief executives who moved on during the two months a year earlier. 
 John Challenger, the chief executive of Challenger, Gray, attributed the shift to a rebounding economy. ''Usually, January is a time for companies to make changes,'' he said. ''The low number of changes this past January suggests that many companies have started to participate in the strong economic growth, so the C.E.O.'s have a better track record to point to.''
 THE uneven nature of the recent boom and bust cycle made the chief executive's job especially difficult. Before Mr. Kertzman stepped down, for example, accounting irregularities had been uncovered at Liberate; the company's chief operating officer, Donald Fitzpatrick, had been fired; and the Securities and Exchange Commission had started an investigation. 
 The chief executive's job was no easier during the technology boom, Mr. Kertzman said. ''It was extremely tough during the bubble when everything became irrational,'' he said. ''I'd grown up with tools and techniques for managing people, and then suddenly the rules changed. I had engineers complaining about not being millionaires yet. I felt that I'd earned the right to not be a C.E.O. anymore.'' 
 Mr. Kertzman predicted that a new crop of chief executives who are comfortable in the current environment ''might lead to longer voluntary tenure.''
 Bill Zollars, chief executive of Yellow Roadway, is among those planning to be around for a while. Mr. Zollars has had the top job at Yellow Roadway, a $7 billion transportation company, since 1999, and he turned down an offer from an Internet start-up company at the height of the dot-com boom. Having survived what he called ''the perfect storm'' of the last few years, he said he thought chief executive tenure could be climbing for the first time in quite a while. 
 ''A drop in performance led to more C.E.O. turnover during the past few years,'' said Mr. Zollars, a regular participant in the Chief Executive Leadership Institute in Atlanta, a management education forum for chief executives. ''But now, a lot of the iffy situations have been flushed out of the system,'' he said. 
 Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, associate dean at the Yale School of Management and the founder of the Chief Executive Leadership Institute, praised the idea of a return to longer tenure, saying that some chief executives had been jettisoned too soon. ''We're giving an incumbent more time to straighten out problems,'' he said. ''It takes a few years to take charge of the business and learn the job of C.E.O.'' 
 Yet chief executives' terms are likely to remain an issue, Mr. Sonnenfeld said. Current chief executives, many of whom are in their 40's and 50's, may be no more eager to move on than their predecessors were. ''These wunderkinds of cyberspace are grown up now, and suddenly they don't want to leave,'' he said. 
 Christy Wood, a senior investment officer for global equities at the California Public Employees' Retirement System, known as Calpers, said that longer tenure for chief executives was not necessarily better. She pointed to the current debate over Michael D. Eisner of Walt Disney and said, ''He's been there about eight years too long.'' 
 Most important, she said, a chief executive must be truly working for the benefit of shareholders. ''The key issue isn't so much length of tenure but tenure with the right alignment of interests,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: After running companies for more than 20 years, Mitchell Kertzman called it quits last year. ''I just got tired of being a C.E.O.,'' he said. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); STARTUPS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); ACCOUNTING (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CHRISTMAS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%) Executives and Management; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (83%); LIBERATE TECHNOLOGIES (58%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (51%)

TICKER: BAH (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Glenn Rifkin

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



97 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Out Of The Box

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
Because it happened so peacefully, it's easy to forget that Mexico in one decade has gone through two remarkable revolutions. One of the oldest one-party governments in the world was eased out with ballots, not bullets, and a poor developing country lowered its tariff barriers and became America's second-largest trading partner. Good news, right? So why does it feel like so many people here who were riding high three years ago are losing confidence?
 The short answer is that Mexico's political and economic revolutions, driven from the top, were great for the 1990's. But unless they are followed up now by a third revolution -- a reform revolution -- that mobilizes and upgrades the skills of the whole society, Mexico will not stay competitive, and people here know it. But their politics are gridlocked. If Mexico does not get some real leadership, it's likely to have a real crisis. It is hard to stay competitive when you collect the lowest percentage of taxes among leading Western economies, or when you are an oil-rich country but you import energy from America because your constitution restricts foreign investment in the energy sector. 
 If Mexico were where Australia is, this would not worry me. Not only is it next door, but Mexico's huge bubble of baby boomers born in the 1970's are now entering their prime working years. If Mexico can't develop an economy that can keep them at home, they will flock to a theater near you.
 ''What Nafta accomplished was to get Mexicans to think forward and outward instead of inward and backward,'' said Luis Rubio, president of Mexico's Center of Research for Development. ''[But] Nafta was seen as an end, more than a beginning. It was seen as the conclusion of a process of political and economic reforms and was meant to consolidate them. . . . Not only did Mexico not have a strategy for going forward, neither did America.''
 Which is why it's time to start thinking out of the box -- or maybe into a bigger box. ''This situation doesn't have to end in crisis, but it will if Mexico, the U.S. and Canada fail to act,'' says Robert Pastor, director of the Center for North American Studies at American University and author of ''Toward a North American Community.''
 Mr. Pastor has proposed a way out -- deeper integration. Canada, Mexico and America have to go beyond Nafta and start building ''a North American Community'' -- which addresses continental issues, from transportation to terrorism, in a wider framework. Among other things, Mr. Pastor proposes that the U.S., Canada and Mexico establish a North America investment fund, which, over 10 years, will invest in roads, telecommunications and post-secondary education in Mexico. (Amazingly, there is no highway today that runs directly from resource-rich southern Mexico to the U.S. border. You have to go through clogged Mexico City.) When the European Union brought in the poorer countries of Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland, it didn't just tell them, ''O.K., now you're in our free-trade zone, let the market rip.'' The E.U. invested big, big money in roads and education in the four new states and narrowed their income gap with the rest of Europe, giving their workers an incentive to stay home.
 ''The United States and Canada should only contribute to such a fund, though, if Mexico contributes an equal amount through new taxes and implements the reforms that will make its economy more competitive,'' said Mr. Pastor. ''If the U.S. shaped this approach with Mexico as part of building a larger community, it could break the Mexican stalemate on reforms. Without reform, Mexico will never develop to the next stage, and without Mexican development, no U.S. immigration plan will stem the flow. The only effective migration strategy is one that narrows the income gap. This is also good business, because as Mexico grows, it buys 80 cents of every dollar of its imports from the U.S. -- unlike China.''
 President Dwight Eisenhower said: If a problem can't be solved as it is, enlarge it. Right now Mexico does not have the resources or consensus to reform, and America does not have a strategy for managing immigration or the relationship with its neighbors. Neither will solve its problem without a larger canvas. The Bush team is just pretending it has an immigration policy to win Hispanic votes. But it has neither a policy nor a Mexican partner. The Democrats are still debating whether Nafta was a good idea! Hello? The truth is this relationship is drifting aimlessly, and the problem won't get smaller until the thinking gets bigger. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); TRENDS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (63%); TERRORISM (50%); BABY BOOMERS (50%) Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); CANADA (93%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



98 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 31; Mutual Funds Report

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: A Blend Of Nerve And Risk Pays Off

BYLINE: By ILANA POLYAK

 BODY:
IT takes discipline to watch a portfolio's best ideas plummet month after month. Managers of the Metropolitan West Asset Management bond funds had to do that throughout 2002. 
 Metropolitan West, a bond investment firm in Los Angeles, staked its reputation on some of the shakiest bonds in the corporate bond market at the time -- securities issued by companies like Qwest Communications, the Williams Companies and WorldCom -- after deciding that the bonds were selling at bargain prices. It took almost a year for some of those companies to recover. In that time, Metropolitan West's funds languished in their category basements. 
 But the firm's funds have rebounded in the last year. Its flagship fund, the $1.2 billion Total Return Bond fund, returned 15.2 percent over the 12 months through March, placing it among the top intermediate bond funds for that period. Similarly, the Low Duration fund, with a return of 6.8 percent in that period, was among the leaders in its short-term bond category.
 ''We were early in making that judgment in 2002,'' the firm's chief investment officer, Tad Rivelle, said of the firm's bet on the corporate bonds. ''But as the returns in 2003 suggest, the value was there.''
 With $14 billion in assets, Metropolitan West is much smaller than powerhouses like Loomis Sayles & Company of Boston and Pacific Investment Management, or Pimco, of Newport Beach, Calif. 
 The Metropolitan West firm started in 1996. Four years earlier, Mr. Rivelle and Laird Landmann left Pimco's bond department and moved to Hotchkis & Wiley, then an independent asset management firm in Los Angeles, where they established a bond department. When Merrill Lynch bought Hotchkis & Wiley, the two, along with five others from their bond team, decided to start a firm.
 ''We felt there was an incompatibility,'' Mr. Rivelle recalled recently, between Merrill and the bond team. The group set up its operation in three weeks, renting office space in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles and lining up clients. 
 Employees own 64 percent of the company. The other 36 percent is owned by Metropolitan West Capital, which provided early financing, but is a separate company.
 Metropolitan West has become known for its substantial research on bonds -- research that may lead it to take credit risks that other managers shun. ''A lot of core bond managers aren't willing to tear apart a balance sheet,'' said Scott Berry, a Morningstar analyst who follows the fund complex. ''But Metropolitan West will do that.''
 Williams and Qwest are cases in point. Though the companies' bonds in 2002 were trading at what insiders call ''distressed'' levels, the bond pickers at Metropolitan West regarded both as having enough assets to cover them. Metropolitan West began buying bonds of Williams, the natural-gas pipeline concern, in the first quarter of 2002, when they were trading at 95 cents on the dollar. For the next year, as the bonds fell to 30 cents on the dollar, the managers added to their stake. They sold off their holdings last year when the bonds traded above par. 
 ''If you're convinced that a company has $1.50 to $2 of debt coverage on its balance sheet for every dollar of debt it has outstanding, then you don't have to worry about getting your money back,'' Mr. Rivelle said. ''We saw many companies that not only had excess cash flow, but also had significant amounts of assets, but the market only cared about earnings.''
 Similarly, Qwest bonds were selling cheaply in the summer of 2002 because of the company's huge debt load and falling credit rating. But Qwest owned a profitable yellow-pages business that could be sold to cover its debts, and it owned US West, a Baby Bell regional telephone company with a sizable subscriber base.
 Metropolitan West sold its bond holdings in Qwest at a tidy profit when the prices approached par. 
 ''When we buy something we know what the asset value is,'' explained Mark Unferth, Metropolitan West's director of credit. ''That helps us sleep at night.''
 Not all its picks have turned a profit. WorldCom's accounting scandal and bankruptcy protection filing did serious damage to the value of the bonds bought by Metropolitan West. They are now trading at 34 cents on the dollar, far below the 85 cents it paid; it still owns the bonds. 
 ''When you have experiences like WorldCom, that keeps you humble,'' Mr. Landmann said. ''That showed us that no matter how good your analysis is, there can be something that comes out of left field that you couldn't have predicted.'' The accounting scandal at WorldCom caught the firm off guard, he said. In response, Metropolitan West increased its investment team to 24 from 16 people, he said, and generally diversified its investments. Now the funds will not take positions that account for more than 1 to 2 percent of the portfolio, compared with 2.5 to 3.5 percent previously, Mr. Landmann said.
 Turnaround opportunities like those at Qwest and Williams are not likely to be repeated soon, Mr. Rivelle said, adding that junk bonds, those rated BB or lower, seem to be fairly valued after their recent run. ''A reasonable assessment of opportunity would have led you to corporate bonds and to the high-yield market in 2003,'' he said. ''Now the real risk for bond investors is inflation and interest rates.''
 According to the team, interest rates are artificially low because of investments in Treasury bonds made by governments like Japan and China. If foreigners decide to dump their bonds, the firm said, the impact on interest rates could be severe. 
 As a result, the Metropolitan West bond funds have trimmed their duration, or interest rate exposure, by buying shorter-maturity bonds and bonds backed by mortgages that are less volatile when interest rates rise. 
 Shorter-maturity bonds are not as sensitive to interest rate increases because an investor can quickly reinvest the proceeds into bonds that yield the new, higher rates. The Metropolitan West team prefers floating-rate debt, which is issued by banks but backed by loans made to corporations. Those bonds have maturities of 60 to 90 days, when they are reissued at the prevailing interest rate. Such debt makes up 6 percent of the Total Return fund, Mr. Landmann said.
 But Treasury bonds have too much exposure to interest rate risk, he said, so the funds are light on government issues. ''If you have the introduction of that many net dollars into the market, it pushes the price up and the yields down,'' he said. ''Do you really want to buy a two-year bond that yields 1.5 percent when inflation is higher than that?''
 Darting among investment options keeps the funds responsive to changing market conditions, Mr. Berry of Morningstar said. ''You want to see a fund that uses every tool in the box,'' he said. ''They make a duration adjustment or a credit adjustment or sector adjustment or issue selection depending on what's going on in the market.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The hallmarks of Metropolitan West in Los Angeles are good research and a tolerance for risk. From left, the chief investment officer, Tad Rivelle
Laird Landmann, portfolio manager
 and Mark Unferth, credit director. (Photo by Stefano Paltera for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); BONDS (91%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Research

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); WILLIAMS COS INC (72%); CENTURYLINK INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (54%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan West Asset Management

TICKER: WMB (NYSE) (72%); CTL (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (72%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (72%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%)

PERSON: Ilana Polyak

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



99 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 3997 words

HEADLINE: Our Sprawling, Supersize Utopia

BYLINE: By David Brooks. 
David Brooks is a Times columnist. His new book, ''On Paradise Drive: How We Live Now (And Always Have) in the Future Tense,'' from which this essay is adapted, will be published next month by Simon & Schuster.

 BODY:
We're living in the age of the great dispersal. Americans continue to move from the Northeast and Midwest to the South and West. But the truly historic migration is from the inner suburbs to the outer suburbs, to the suburbs of suburbia. From New Hampshire down to Georgia, across Texas to Arizona and up through California, you now have the booming exurban sprawls that have broken free of the gravitational pull of the cities and now float in a new space far beyond them. For example, the population of metropolitan Pittsburgh has declined by 8 percent since 1980, but as people spread out, the amount of developed land in the Pittsburgh area increased by nearly 43 percent. The population of Atlanta increased by 22,000 during the 90's, but the expanding suburbs grew by 2.1 million.
 The geography of work has been turned upside down. Jobs used to be concentrated in downtowns. But the suburbs now account for more rental office space than the cities in most of the major metro areas of the country except Chicago and New York. In the Bay Area in California, suburban Santa Clara County alone has five times as many of the region's larger public companies as San Francisco. Ninety percent of the office space built in America by the end of the 1990's was built in suburbia, much of it in far-flung office parks stretched along the Interstates. 
 These new spaces are huge and hugely attractive to millions of people. Mesa, Ariz., a suburb of Phoenix, now has a larger population than Minneapolis, St. Louis or Cincinnati. It's as if Zeus came down and started plopping vast developments in the middle of farmland and the desert overnight. Boom! A master planned community. Boom! A big-box mall. Boom! A rec center and 4,000 soccer fields. The food courts come and the people follow. How many times in American history have 300,000-person communities materialized practically out of nothing?
 In these new, exploding suburbs, the geography, the very landscape of life, is new and unparalleled. In the first place, there are no centers, no recognizable borders to shape a sense of geographic identity. Throughout human history, most people have lived around some definable place -- a tribal ring, an oasis, a river junction, a port, a town square. But in exurbia, each individual has his or her own polycentric nodes -- the school, the church and the office park. Life is different in ways big and small. When the New Jersey Devils won the Stanley Cup, they had their victory parade in a parking lot; no downtown street is central to the team's fans. Robert Lang, a demographer at Virginia Tech, compares these new sprawling exurbs to the dark matter in the universe: stuff that is very hard to define but somehow accounts for more mass than all the planets, stars and moons put together.
 We are having a hard time understanding the cultural implications of this new landscape because when it comes to suburbia, our imaginations are motionless. Many of us still live with the suburban stereotypes laid down by the first wave of suburban critics -- that the suburbs are dull, white-bread kind of places where Ozzie and Harriet families go to raise their kids. But there are no people so conformist as those who fault the supposed conformity of the suburbs. They regurgitate the same critiques decade after decade, regardless of the suburban reality flowering around them.
 The reality is that modern suburbia is merely the latest iteration of the American dream. Far from being dull, artificial and spiritually vacuous, today's suburbs are the products of the same religious longings and the same deep tensions that produced the American identity from the start. The complex faith of Jonathan Edwards, the propelling ambition of Benjamin Franklin, the dark, meritocratic fatalism of Lincoln -- all these inheritances have shaped the outer suburbs.
At the same time the suburbs were sprawling, they were getting more complicated and more interesting, and they were going quietly berserk. When you move through suburbia -- from the old inner-ring suburbs out through the most distant exurbs -- you see the most unexpected things: lesbian dentists, Iranian McMansions, Korean megachurches, outlaw-biker subdevelopments, Orthodox shtetls with Hasidic families walking past strip malls on their way to shul. When you actually live in suburbia, you see that radically different cultural zones are emerging, usually within a few miles of one another and in places that are as architecturally interesting as a piece of aluminum siding. That's because in the age of the great dispersal, it becomes much easier to search out and congregate with people who are basically like yourself. People are less tied down to a factory, a mine or a harbor. They have more choice over which sort of neighborhood to live in. Society becomes more segmented, and everything that was once hierarchical turns granular.
 You don't have to travel very far in America to see radically different sorts of people, most of whom know very little about the communities and subcultures just down the highway. For example, if you are driving across the northern band of the country -- especially in Vermont, Massachusetts, Wisconsin or Oregon -- you are likely to stumble across a crunchy suburb. These are places with meat-free food co-ops, pottery galleries, sandal shops (because people with progressive politics have a strange penchant for toe exhibitionism). Not many people in these places know much about the for-profit sector of the economy, but they do build wonderful all-wood playgrounds for their kids, who tend to have names like Milo and Mandela. You know you're in a crunchy suburb because you see the anti-lawns, which declare just how fervently crunchy suburbanites reject the soul-destroying standards of conventional success. Anti-lawns look like regular lawns with eating disorders. Some are bare patches of dirt, others are scraggly spreads of ragged, weedlike vegetation, the horticultural version of a grunge rocker's face.
 Then a few miles away, you might find yourself in an entirely different cultural zone, in an upscale suburban town center packed with restaurants -- one of those communities that perform the neat trick of being clearly suburban while still making it nearly impossible to park. The people here tend to be lawyers, doctors and professors, and they drive around in Volvos, Audis and Saabs because it is socially acceptable to buy a luxury car as long as it comes from a country hostile to U.S. foreign policy.
 Here you can find your Trader Joe's grocery stores, where all the cashiers look as if they are on loan from Amnesty International and all the snack food is especially designed for kids who come home from school screaming, ''Mom, I want a snack that will prevent colorectal cancer!'' Here you've got newly renovated Arts and Crafts seven-bedroom homes whose owners have developed views on beveled granite; no dinner party in this clique has gone all the way to dessert without a conversational phase on the merits and demerits of Corian countertops. Bathroom tile is their cocaine: instead of white powder, they blow their life savings on handcrafted Italian wall covering from Waterworks. 
 You travel a few miles from these upscale enclaves, and suddenly you're in yet another cultural milieu. You're in one of the suburban light-industry zones, and you start noting small Asian groceries offering live tilapia fish and premade bibimbap dishes. You see Indian video rental outlets with movies straight from Bollywood. You notice a Japanese bookstore, newspaper boxes offering The Korea Central Daily News and hair salons offering DynaSky phone cards to Peru.
 One out of every nine people in America was born in a foreign country. Immigrants used to settle in cities and then migrate out, but now many head straight for suburbia, so today you see little Taiwanese girls in the figure skating clinics, Ukrainian boys learning to pitch and hints of cholo culture spreading across Nevada. People here develop their own customs and patterns that grow up largely unnoticed by the general culture. You go to a scraggly playing field on a Saturday morning, and there is a crowd of Nigerians playing soccer. You show up the next day and it is all Mexicans kicking a ball around. No lifestyle magazine is geared to the people who live in these immigrant-heavy wholesale warehouse zones.
 You drive farther out, and suddenly you're lost in the shapeless, mostly middle-class expanse of exurbia. (The inner-ring suburbs tend to have tremendous income inequality.) Those who live out here are very likely living in the cultural shadow of golf. It's not so much the game of golf that influences manners and morals; it's the Zenlike golf ideal. The perfect human being, defined by golf, is competitive and success-oriented, yet calm and neat while casually dressed. Everything he owns looks as if it is made of titanium, from his driver to his BlackBerry to his wife's Wonderbra. He has achieved mastery over the great dragons: hurry, anxiety and disorder.
 His DVD collection is organized, as is his walk-in closet. His car is clean and vacuumed. His frequently dialed numbers are programmed into his phone, and his rate plan is well tailored to his needs. His casual slacks are well pressed, and he is so calm and together that next to him, Dick Cheney looks bipolar. The new suburbs appeal to him because everything is fresh and neat. The philosopher George Santayana once suggested that Americans don't solve problems; we just leave them behind. The exurbanite has left behind that exorbitant mortgage, that long commute, all those weird people who watch ''My Daughter Is a Slut'' on daytime TV talk shows. He has come to be surrounded by regular, friendly people who do not scoff at his daughter's competitive cheerleading obsession and whose wardrobes are as Lands' End-dependent as his is.
 Exurban places have one ideal that soars above all others: ample parking. You can drive diagonally across acres of empty parking spaces on your way from Bed, Bath & Beyond to Linens 'n Things. These parking lots are so big that you could recreate the Battle of Gettysburg in the middle and nobody would notice at the stores on either end. Off on one side, partly obscured by the curvature of the earth, you will see a sneaker warehouse big enough to qualify for membership in the United Nations, and then at the other end there will be a Home Depot. Still, shoppers measure their suburban manliness by how close they can park to the Best Buy. So if a normal healthy American sees a family about to pull out of one of those treasured close-in spots just next to the maternity ones, he will put on his blinker and wait for the departing family to load up its minivan and apparently read a few chapters of ''Ulysses'' before it finally pulls out and lets him slide in.
 You look out across this landscape, with its sprawling diversity of suburban types, and sometimes you can't help considering the possibility that we Americans may not be the most profound people on earth. You look out across the suburban landscape that is the essence of modern America, and you see the culture of Slurp & Gulps, McDonald's, Disney, breast enlargements and ''The Bachelor.'' You see a country that gave us Prozac and Viagra, paper party hats, pinball machines, commercial jingles, expensive orthodontia and Monster Truck rallies. You see a trashy consumer culture that has perfected parade floats, corporate-sponsorship deals, low-slung jeans and frosted Cocoa Puffs; a culture that finds its quintessential means of self-expression through bumper stickers (''Rehab Is for Quitters'').
 Indeed, over the past half century, there has been an endless flow of novels, movies, anti-sprawl tracts, essays and pop songs all lamenting the shallow conformity of suburban life. If you scan these documents all at once, or even if, like the average person, you absorb them over the course of a lifetime, you find their depictions congeal into the same sorry scene. Suburban America as a comfortable but somewhat vacuous realm of unreality: consumerist, wasteful, complacent, materialistic and self-absorbed.
 Disneyfied Americans, in this view, have become too concerned with small and vulgar pleasures, pointless one-upmanship. Their lives are distracted by a buzz of trivial images, by relentless hurry instead of contemplation, information rather than wisdom and a profusion of unsatisfying lifestyle choices. Modern suburban Americans, it is argued, rarely sink to the level of depravity -- they are too tepid for that -- but they don't achieve the highest virtues or the most demanding excellences.
 These criticisms don't get suburbia right. They don't get America right. The criticisms tend to come enshrouded in predictions of decline or cultural catastrophe. Yet somehow imperial decline never comes, and the social catastrophe never materializes. American standards of living surpassed those in Europe around 1740. For more than 260 years, in other words, Americans have been rich, money-mad, vulgar, materialistic and complacent people. And yet somehow America became and continues to be the most powerful nation on earth and the most productive. Religion flourishes. Universities flourish. Crime rates drop, teen pregnancy declines, teen-suicide rates fall, along with divorce rates. Despite all the problems that plague this country, social healing takes place. If we're so great, can we really be that shallow?
 Nor do the standard critiques of suburbia really solve the mystery of motivation -- the inability of many Americans to sit still, even when they sincerely want to simplify their lives. Americans are the hardest-working people on earth. The average American works 350 hours a year -- nearly 10 weeks -- more than the average Western European. Americans switch jobs more frequently than people from other nations. The average job tenure in the U.S. is 6.8 years, compared with more than a decade in France, Germany and Japan. What propels Americans to live so feverishly, even against their own self-interest? What energy source accounts for all this?
 Finally, the critiques don't explain the dispersion. They don't explain why so many millions of Americans throw themselves into the unknown every year. In 2002, about 14.2 percent of Americans relocated. Compare that with the 4 percent of Dutch and Germans and the 8 percent of Britons who move in a typical year. According to one survey, only slightly more than a quarter of American teenagers expect to live in their hometowns as adults.
 What sort of longing causes people to pick up and head out for the horizon? Why do people uproot their families from California, New York, Ohio and elsewhere and move into new developments in Arizona or Nevada or North Carolina, imagining their kids at high schools that haven't even been built yet, picturing themselves with new friends they haven't yet met, fantasizing about touch-football games on lawns that haven't been seeded? Millions of people every year leap out into the void, heading out to communities that don't exist, to office parks that are not yet finished, to places where everything is new. This mysterious longing is the root of the great dispersal.
To grasp that longing, you have to take seriously the central cliche of American life: the American dream. Albert Einstein once said that imagination is more important than knowledge, and when you actually look at modern mainstream America, you see what a huge role fantasy plays even in the seemingly dullest areas of life. The suburbs themselves are conservative utopias, where people go because they imagine orderly and perfect lives can be led there. This is the nation of Hollywood, Las Vegas, professional wrestling, Elvis impersonators, Penthouse letters, computer gamers, grown men in LeBron James basketball jerseys, faith healers and the whole range of ampersand magazines (Town & Country, Food & Wine) that display perfect parties, perfect homes, perfect vacations and perfect lives.
 This is the land of Rainforest Cafe theme restaurants, Ralph Lauren WASP-fantasy fashions, Civil War re-enactors, gated communities with names like Sherwood Forest and vehicles with names like Yukon, Durango, Expedition and Mustang, as if their accountant-owners were going to chase down some cattle rustlers on the way to the Piggly Wiggly. This is the land in which people dream of the most Walter Mitty-esque personal transformations as a result of the low-carb diet, cosmetic surgery or their move to the Sun Belt.
 Americans -- seemingly bland, ordinary Americans -- often have a remarkably tenuous grip on reality. Under the seeming superficiality of suburban American life, there is an imaginative fire that animates Americans and propels us to work so hard, move so much and leap so wantonly.
 Ralph Waldo Emerson once wrote that those who ''complain of the flatness of American life have no perception of its destiny. They are not Americans.'' They don't see that ''here is man in the garden of Eden; here, the Genesis and the Exodus.'' And here, he concluded fervently, will come the final Revelation. Emerson was expressing the eschatological longing that is the essence of the American identity: the assumption that some culminating happiness is possible here, that history can be brought to a close here.
 The historian Sacvan Bercovitch has observed that the United States is the example par excellence of a nation formed by collective fantasy. Despite all the claims that American culture is materialist and pragmatic, what is striking about this country is how material things are shot through with enchantment.
 America, after all, was born in a frenzy of imagination. For the first European settlers and for all the subsequent immigrants, the new continent begs to be fantasized about. The early settlers were aware of and almost oppressed by the obvious potential of the land. They saw the possibility of plenty everywhere, yet at the start they lived in harsh conditions. Their lives took on a slingshot shape -- they had to pull back in order to someday shoot forward. Through the temporary hardships they dwelt imaginatively in the grandeur that would inevitably mark their future.
 This future-minded mentality deepened decade after decade, century after century. Each time the early settlers pushed West, they found what was to them virgin land, and they perceived it as paradise. Fantasy about the future lured them. Guides who led and sometimes exploited the 19th-century pioneers were shocked by how little the trekkers often knew about the surroundings they had thrown themselves into, or what would be involved in their new lives. As so often happens in American history, as happens every day in the newly sprawling areas, people leapt before they really looked.
 Americans found themselves drawn to places where the possibilities seemed boundless and where there was no history. Francis Parkman, the great 19th-century historian, wrote of his youthful self, ''His thoughts were always in the forest, whose features possessed his waking and sleeping dreams, filling him with vague cravings impossible to satisfy.''
 Our minds are still with Parkman's in the forest. Our imagination still tricks us into undertaking grand projects -- starting a business, writing a book, raising a family, moving to a new place -- by enchanting us with visions of future joys. When these tasks turn out to be more difficult than we dreamed, the necessary exertions bring out new skills and abilities and make us better than we planned on being.
 And so we see the distinctive American mentality, which explains the westward crossing as much as the suburban sprawl and the frenzied dot-com-style enthusiasms. It is the Paradise Spell: the tendency to see the present from the vantage point of the future. It starts with imagination -- the ability to fantasize about what some imminent happiness will look like. Then the future-minded person leaps rashly toward that gauzy image. He or she is subtly more attached to the glorious future than to the temporary and unsatisfactory present. Time isn't pushed from the remembered past to the felt present to the mysterious future. It is pulled by the golden future from the unsatisfactory present and away from the dim past.
 There's a James Fenimore Cooper novel called ''The Pioneers,'' in which a developer takes his cousin on a tour of the city he is building. He describes the broad streets, the rows of houses. But all she sees is a barren forest. He's astonished she can't see it, so real is it in his mind already.
 Mentality matters, and sometimes mentality is all that matters. The cognitive strands established early in American history and through its period of explosive growth -- the sense that some ultimate fulfillment will be realized here, that final happiness can be created here, that the United States has a unique mission to redeem the world -- are still woven into the fabric of everyday life. The old impulses, fevers and fantasies still play themselves out amid the BlackBerries, the Hummers, the closet organizers and the travel-team softball leagues.
 Suburban America is a bourgeois place, but unlike some other bourgeois places, it is also a transcendent place infused with everyday utopianism. That's why you meet so many boring-looking people who see themselves on some technological frontier, dreaming of this innovation or that management technique that will elevate the world -- and half the time their enthusiasms, crazes and fads seem ludicrous to others and even to them, in retrospect. 
 We members of this suburban empire still find ourselves veering off into world crises, roaring into battle with visions of progressive virtue on our side and retrograde evil on the other, waging moralistic crusades others do not understand, pushing our movie, TV and rock-star fantasies onto an ambivalent and sometimes horrified globe. 
 This doesn't mean all Americans, or even all suburban Americans, think alike, simply that there is a prevailing current to national life that you feel when you come here from other places with other currents. Some nations are bound, in all their diversity, by a common creation myth, a tale of how they came into being. Americans are bound, in all our diversity, by a fruition myth.
 Born in abundance, inspired by opportunity, nurtured in imagination, spiritualized by a sense of God's blessing and call and realized in ordinary life day by day, this Paradise Spell is the controlling ideology of national life. Just out of reach, just beyond the next ridge, just in the farther-out suburb or with the next entrepreneurial scheme, just with the next diet plan or credit card purchase, the next true love or political hero, the next summer home or all-terrain vehicle, the next meditation technique or motivational seminar; just with the right schools, the right moral revival, the right beer and the right set of buddies; just with the next technology or after the next shopping spree -- there is this spot you can get to where all tensions will melt, all time pressures will be relieved and happiness can be realized.
 This Paradise Spell is at the root of our tendency to work so hard, consume so feverishly, to move so much. It inspires our illimitable faith in education, our frequent born-again experiences. It explains why, alone among developed nations, we have shaped our welfare system to encourage opportunity at the expense of support and security; and why, more than people in comparable nations, we wreck our families and move on. It is the call that makes us heedless of the past, disrespectful toward traditions, short on contemplation, wasteful in our use of the things around us, impious toward restraints, but consumed by hope, driven ineluctably to improve, fervently optimistic, relentlessly aspiring, spiritually alert and, in this period of human history, the irresistible and discombobulating locomotive of the world. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the new American exurban frontiers, near Boise, Idaho. (Photograph by Angela Smith)
A suburb outside Las Vegas. Few areas are too remote or forbidding that some American dreamers won't find a way to pitch their tents there. (Photograph by Michael Edwards)
Montgomery County, outside Philadelphia.
 The new suburbs are inspired by the golf ideal: they're success-oriented, well pressed but casual. (Photograph by Joseph Maida) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (92%); GEOGRAPHY (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); HISTORY (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); ICE HOCKEY (63%); SPORTS FANS (62%); SOCCER (62%) Life Styles ; Suburbs ; Housing

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



100 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Private Sector

LENGTH: 951 words

PERSON: Bill Seibel

HEADLINE: Embracing Relics and High Tech

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
BOSTON is both a technology hub and a repository of American history. A software entrepreneur, Bill Seibel, has connected the two by rescuing some of the nation's most valuable relics from the obscurity of storage rooms and displaying them on the Internet.
 Mr. Seibel began the project after his father-in-law, a retired college librarian, steered him to the Boston Public Library as a potential outlet for his philanthropic ambitions. He toured its archives and was astounded at what he saw. 
 He got a close-up look at John Adams's personal atlas of the world and Paul Revere's original sketch of the Boston Massacre. He scrutinized the original letter from Christopher Columbus to the king and queen of Spain in Latin announcing the discovery of land in the Western Hemisphere. The 1494 letter, which was translated into many languages, was essentially the deed to the New World. 
 In one corner of a room was the Congressional medal awarded to George Washington for defending Boston against the British. In another was Harry Houdini's scrapbook. Also in the archives were the original blueprints for Fenway Park, manuscripts from Emily Dickinson and a lock of John Hancock's hair. Rare prints by Rembrandt, Toulouse-Lautrec, M.C. Escher and Daumier were near a folio of William Shakespeare's complete works published in 1623 and Robert McCloskey's sketches for his children's classic ''Make Way for Ducklings.''
 ''It is unbelievable what a vast treasure house of stuff this library has collected,'' Mr. Seibel said. ''It's like going through the ultimate grandmother's attic.''
 The Boston Public Library, chartered in 1848, is among the nation's oldest public libraries and became the model for others around the United States. Charles Follen McKim, the architect of the current building, described it as a ''palace for the people'' where the common man would have free access to the collections. It was among the first to lend books. 
 In 156 years, it has amassed more than 33 million books, prints, recordings, periodicals, works of art, photographs and personal objects from the famous and the not-so-famous. 
 The public does not have access to most of the artifacts, and even accredited researchers need a pass and a guide to get close to them. But after Mr. Seibel joined the board of the Boston Public Library Foundation in 2001, he organized a private tour for his father-in-law, Jim Boudreau.
 Before Mr. Boudreau could take the tour, he fell ill with cancer and died, a loss that led Mr. Seibel to think about ways to bring the library closer to the people. 
 ''It was clear that technology could address that,'' said Mr. Seibel, 52, an information technology veteran.
 A native of Pittsburgh, he graduated from Penn State and received an M.B.A. from Carnegie Mellon. He came to Boston in 1988 to run the information technology department of Air Products and Chemicals, a big producer of industrial gases. But the entrepreneurial bug drove him to create start-up companies like Cambridge Technology Partners and later Zephyr, an Internet services company. Today, he is chief executive and chairman of Demantra, a maker of supply-chain-planning and sales-planning software in Waltham, Mass.
 Mr. Seibel told his fellow library board members that there was a way to digitize much of the library's archived material and to offer it to the public via the Internet. In April 2002, he set up a task force to look into the project and began recruiting fellow technology executives around Boston as members.
 ''Bill networked and got people excited about the project, '' said Bernard Margolis, president of the Boston Public Library. ''For someone in the world of technology, he still gets that increased heartbeat when he turns the pages of John Adams's personal atlas and realizes the second president turned these same pages to form his world view.'' 
 The first goal of the tech task force was to start an online store (http://www.bpl.org/store/index.asp) of thousands of prints, photographs and other items. It opened last June, with revenue supporting four more initiatives: upgrading the interactive technology in the children's room, introducing global-positioning technology to help library patrons navigate their way through the building, digitizing the hundreds of thousands of recordings in the library's sound archives -- like speeches by James Michael Curley, the former Boston mayor, and lectures by the author and philosopher Ayn Rand and the economist John Kenneth Galbraith -- and improving the retrieval system for quicker access to the library's huge information base.
 Other libraries are moving in a similar direction. The New York Public Library, for example, is embarking on an extensive digitization project. Paul LeClerc, the chief executive of the library, said it would spend $10 million in June through October to improve its Web site (http://digital.nypl.org) with a pictorial archive having more than 500,000 images. ''We're getting 500 million hits a year on the library's Web site from more than 200 countries and territories,'' he said. 
 MR. SEIBEL acknowledges that it is unlikely that the Boston Public Library will get all of its 33 million objects online. He says it is more important to provide access to themes and ideas that will draw people to the library. In enlisting task force members, he said, he considered asking well-known people but decided to focus on people who were trying to establish themselves in the local technology arena.
 ''I found people who are smart and talented but hadn't cashed in yet,'' he said. ''This turns out to be a great way to generate new business contacts. It's a great networking experience for everyone.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Seibel, chief executive of Demantra, with a 1623 Shakespeare folio from the Boston Public Library.
 A library's relics: a medal for George Washington, the lock from a jail where William Lloyd Garrison was hidden and a baseball signed by Jackie Robinson. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LIBRARIANS (90%); HISTORY (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); CHARITIES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); BOARD CHANGES (71%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (71%); ACCREDITATION (71%); CANCER (60%) Libraries and Librarians; Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Boston Public Library

Bill Seibel; Glenn Rifkin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Boston (Mass)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



101 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 31; Mutual Funds Report

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: A Market With Little To Tempt the Wary

BYLINE: By CHERYL STRAUSS EINHORN

 BODY:
CURTIS JENSEN, portfolio manager of the $700 million Third Avenue Small-Cap Value fund, has described his recent investment activity in rather unflattering terms. He has made so few stock purchases that his trading ''somewhat resembled that of a sloth,'' he wrote in a letter to shareholders. 
 Because of the market run-up last year, Mr. Jensen said he was not finding many good investment opportunities these days. His best ideas from last year and the top holdings today -- mainly real estate companies like Brascan, Forest City Enterprises and LNR Property have risen considerably. Over all, his fund gained 55.4 percent in the 12 months through March. In many parts of the mutual fund industry, managers have slowed down in making new investments, instead paring holdings that they consider risky and allowing cash to build. Burton J. Greenwald, a fund industry consultant in Philadelphia, said that managers at some major fund companies ''can't find any stocks to buy.'' 
 Mr. Jensen, for example, said that in January, he found one stock to add to a portfolio of 63: Quanta Services, based in Houston, which provides contract services to electric utilities and cable television operators. 
 He has built his fund's cash position to more than 20 percent of assets, from 8 percent in the spring of 2003. To reduce risk, he has pared the fund's technology holdings to about 10 percent from more than 25 percent a few months ago. And Mr. Jensen, who is co-chief investment officer of Third Avenue Management, said he sold the fund's shares of the SWS Group, a broker-dealer based in Dallas, largely because he wanted to ''reduce the fund's overall exposure to the general U.S. equity markets'' for the next three to six months.
 James P. Barrow, manager of the $1.2 billion Vanguard Selected Value fund, said that he was ''not obsessed that the market is overpriced'' but that he was nevertheless tinkering with the fund's portfolio to cut down on risk.
 The fund was up 51.6 percent in the 12 months through March. His top three stocks had strong gains over that time: Royal Caribbean Cruises, based in Miami, up 193.4 percent; Kerr-McGee, an oil and gas company based in Oklahoma City, up 26.8 percent; and the South Financial Group, a bank holding company based in Greenville, S.C., up 36.7 percent. But Mr. Barrow, who is a founding partner of Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, an investment management firm in Dallas, the Vanguard fund's adviser, said, ''We have been weeding out weak sisters,'' explaining that in a market with rich valuations, it was best to ''sell your losers because those will be hated first.''
 Thus, Mr. Barrow has sold shares of Tenet Healthcare, a hospital chain based in Santa Barbara, Calif., that is under scrutiny for its accounting and billing practices and other issues. ''We've suffered long enough in that one, and we're worried about the market,'' he said, adding that he was concerned that the market would take Tenet lower because bad-debt expenses were ''going through the roof.''
 He has also sold Millennium Chemical, a commodity and specialty chemical company based in Hunt Valley, Md., after waiting in vain, he said, ''for management to turn it around.'' Lyondell Chemical, based in Houston, agreed last week to acquire Millennium, and its hefty debt, in a $2.3 billion deal.
 Further, Mr. Barrow said that he had shortened the time he holds stocks that perform poorly. ''My patience tightens up,'' he said. Tenet lasted six months in his portfolio and Millennium about two years, compared with an average holding time of three years.
 He has added shares of companies that ''are not volatile and won't require dynamite returns to make money,'' citing Weight Watchers, the weight control program, as an example of a ''low-risk venture.'' Shares of the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, a utility holding company in Phoenix, were also acquired recently. 
 Mr. Barrow said that he had also raised the amount of cash in the fund to about 4 percent, up from an average of 3 percent.
 Thomas Atteberry, a vice president and assistant manager of the $1.4 billion First Pacific Advisors New Income fund, which owns fixed-income and convertible securities, said that the fixed-income market was also overpriced. 
 He says he is on a buyer's strike, especially ''in regard to the high-quality segment of the market.''
 With high-quality bonds yielding less than 4 percent, Mr. Atteberry said, ''they offer no value.'' 
 ''We won't commit capital to them now,'' he added. 
 Mr. Atteberry said that he did not favor lower-quality bonds, either. Holdings rated below AA have fallen to about 13 percent of the portfolio from 25 percent last June and could keep dropping. He said that the portfolio's high-yield exposure could decline to as low as 7 percent of the fund's assets in the near future, depending on economic events. 
 Mr. Atteberry is moving his fund toward short-term Treasuries. Although his duration of choice -- duration measures a bond's sensitivity to change in interest rates -- is three years or less, he said, the fund's current duration is near its shortest ever: 1.3 years. Mr. Atteberry has built the New Income fund's cash hoard to 35 percent, its highest level since 1984, the last year that the fund lost money. (It is up 8 percent this year through March, and gained 4.4 percent last year.)
 ''I can't deploy the capital, so I am protecting it,'' he said.
 In a recent letter to shareholders, he said, ''Caution is the watchword and our strategy.'' He says he figures that it may take 18 months for the economic picture to improve. 
 Ben Inker, director of asset allocation at Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Company, a global investment management firm with $56 billion under management, said he had been telling clients that it was time to invest with the simple idea of achieving a positive return. ''U.S. equities now are the most overvalued in the world,'' he said, adding, ''Everything else is expensive too.''
 HE says he is suggesting to institutional clients, who account for 90 percent of the firm's business, that because the stock market may decline in the months ahead, they may want to stop looking at the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index as a benchmark for their investments, and to seek instead a modest, positive return on their investments. ''Given that equities are expensive,'' he said, ''we are talking to clients and letting them know our view and asking if they'd like to change their investment goals.'' 
 ''We want the flexibility to buy more than one asset class, and shorting is important too,'' he said. When a manager shorts a share, he or she is betting that the price of a security will decline.
 Mr. Inker says he is emphasizing drug stocks like Merck and Pfizer. ''They are cheap in relative terms to the market and they are high-quality companies,'' he said.
 Generally, though, he said, ''When we look around the world, there are very few assets that are priced to give good returns and little you can do about it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Curtis Jensen of Third Avenue Small-Cap Value is paring tech stocks and buying little. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); BONDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (51%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: BARROW HANLEY MEWHINNEY & STRAUSS INC (61%); FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (57%); QUANTA SERVICES INC (55%); SWS GROUP INC (53%); TD BANK US HOLDING CO (51%); ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD (51%)

TICKER: FCEB (NYSE) (57%); FCEA (NYSE) (57%); PWR (NYSE) (55%); SWS (NYSE) (53%); RCL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (57%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (57%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (55%); NAICS237130 POWER & COMMUNICATION LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (55%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (55%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (51%)

PERSON: cheryl strauss einhorn

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (51%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



102 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 32; Mutual Funds Report

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Some Funds Win Big by Buying Small

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
MUTUAL funds that focused on small-capitalization stocks and value stocks achieved some of the biggest gains among domestic funds in the first quarter. 
 Managers of three top-performing no-load funds that are open to new investors talked about their funds' performance and their outlook for the market.
 The $195 million Baron Partners fund returned 12.69 percent in the first quarter. Ronald S. Baron, 60, the fund's manager, says that he looks for ''well-managed, well-financed companies that can double the size of their business in the next four or five years.'' 
 The fund, which started as a partnership in 1992 and converted to a mutual fund in April 2003, is highly concentrated. It owns about 24 stocks, and the biggest three holdings account for nearly 40 percent of the fund's assets, Mr. Baron said, so ''it's the riskiest fund'' of the five that Baron Capital manages. He recommended that investors allocate no more than 10 to 20 percent of their portfolios to shares of the fund.
 Mr. Baron attributes the fund's strong performance for the quarter to what he calls the ''megatrends'' that underlie the fund's investments. One is the growth in gambling stocks. Shares of one holding, Wynn Resorts, which is based in Las Vegas and designs and develops resort properties, rose 25 percent in the quarter. Stephen A. Wynn, the chairman and chief executive, is developing Wynn Las Vegas, a luxury hotel, and plans a similar project in Macau, near Hong Kong. 
 The fund has also profited from its holdings of the Apollo Group, based in Phoenix, up 27.1 percent for the quarter. Apollo is the ''leader in providing education for adults,'' Mr. Baron said. ''Large corporations send employees to Apollo's schools at big discounts to the price they would pay for traditional university educations.''
 The fund's biggest holding, accounting for 16 percent of assets, is ChoicePoint, in Alpharetta, Ga., which slipped 0.2 percent in the quarter. ChoicePoint provides corporate identification and credential verification services. ''Cyclically, the business is growing as employment rises,'' Mr. Baron said, ''and presumably, they'll see more activity from government agencies working to reduce the threat of terrorism.''
 Looking ahead, Mr. Baron said: ''Interest rates are low, and the companies that I talk to say their businesses are doing better. Most companies' earnings will be higher than analysts expect.''

Profit in Low-Profile Stocks
 The $208 million Babson Shadow Stock fund, which holds more than 300 stocks, was up 10.01 percent in the quarter.
 Its manager, Anthony M. Maramarco, 55, picks stocks with market capitalizations of $20 million to $500 million and low ratios of price to book value. The portfolio companies traded for 1.4 times book value, compared with a multiple of 1.7 for the stocks in the Russell 2000 value index at year-end. Mr. Maramarco also seeks stocks that have been neglected by institutional investors -- stocks that are, he said, in ''the shadow of Wall Street.'' 
 The portfolio is ''still benefiting from the positive aftershocks of the 2003 market that favored small-cap stocks,'' he said. The market capitalization of the companies in the portfolio averages about $300 million.
 The fund made money in William Lyon Homes, a builder in Newport Beach, Calif., whose shares rose 48.5 percent in the quarter. ''There's a good market for home builders because of low interest rates,'' Mr. Maramarco said, ''especially in growth areas like Southern California and Arizona.'' Another winner was the Encore Wire Corporation, in McKinney, Tex., a manufacturer of copper electrical wire and cable, primarily marketed through wholesalers to residential and commercial markets. The company's shares rose 108.6 percent, driven by the general pickup in the economy, he said.
 The fund also made money in Sanderson Farms in Laurel, Miss., which produces, processes and markets chicken products, mostly in the South and West. Its shares rose 36.7 percent in the quarter.
 Mr. Maramarco said he expected gradual improvement in the economy, boding well for smaller stocks, but he added: ''We still expect some choppy spells. It won't be a totally smooth ride for the economy or the stock market.''

Banking on Insurers
 The $125 million Fairholme fund returned 9.63 percent in the quarter.
 Like the Baron fund, Fairholme is very concentrated, holding only about 15 stocks. Its lead manager, Bruce R. Berkowitz, 45, said that he looked for companies that were ''run by people that have most of their net worth invested in the company and significant success in running the business.''
 Although Mr. Berkowitz is based in Short Hills, N.J., and the fund focuses on American stocks, it takes its name from Fairholme Close, the street in London where Mr. Berkowitz lived for a time in the late 1980's. The fund has a value orientation, and it profited from a strong quarter for property and casualty insurers. ''The sector was flat on its back because of bad pricing and losses from Sept. 11,'' Mr. Berkowitz said. ''Now they're starting to show good profitability, and the market is recognizing that.''
 One example is the Leucadia National Corporation, in New York City, up 15.6 percent. Leucadia is a diversified holding company with businesses in telecommunications, banking, lending, wine-making and property and casualty reinsurance. The fund also made money in Berkshire Hathaway, up 10.5 percent, the holding company run by Warren E. Buffett, the value investor. Its diverse businesses include Geico, the automobile insurer, and General Re, a reinsurer.
 Another of the fund's winners was the HomeFed Corporation, a small residential real estate developer in Carlsbad, Calif., which gained 19.3 percent in the quarter. It is developing two planned communities in San Diego.
 Mr. Berkowitz called himself ''agnostic about the future.'' He said, ''We look for companies that can do well even during difficult times.''


A Risk on Megatrends

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce R. Berkowitz of the Fairholme fund prefers companies whose operators are heavily invested. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
At the Babson Shadow Stock fund, Anthony M. Maramarco looks for low price-to-book-value ratios. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)
Ronald S. Baron seeks well-managed companies that are growing fast. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)Chart: ''Ahead of the Pack''Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds fared against their benchmarks in the first quarter.BARON PARTNERSGraph tracks the daily closing of Baron Partners shares and S. & P. 500 for first quarter.BABSON SHADOW STOCKGraph tracks the daily closing price of Babson Shadow Stock shares and RUSSELL 2000 for first quarter.FAIRHOLMEGraph tracks the daily closing price of Fairholme shares and S. & P. 500 for first quarter.FIRST-QUARTER RETURNSBaron Partners: +12.7%Midcap growth funds: +4.1Babson Shadow Stock: +10.0%Small-cap value funds: +6.1Fairholme: +9.6%Midcap blend funds: +4.5(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESORTS (72%); BONDS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); TERRORISM (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: WYNN RESORTS LTD (54%); APOLLO GROUP INC (53%); CHOICEPOINT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Baron Asset Management; Babson Fund Group; Fairholme Funds

TICKER: WYNN (NASDAQ) (54%); APOL (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (53%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (53%); NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (52%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: RON BARON (93%); STEPHEN A WYNN (50%) Carole Gould; Ronald S Baron; Anthony M Maramarco; Bruce R Berkowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (54%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



103 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; ECONOMIC VIEW

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Dancing, Or Not, To the Dollar's Fall

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
ECONOMISTS, chief executives and Washington policy makers have hailed the weakened dollar as good news for the United States. After all, when the dollar loses value against the euro or the British pound, for instance, it should make American-made goods cost less in markets that use those currencies. Cheaper prices should stimulate bigger orders for American companies, especially those in the hard-hit manufacturing sector. And, as manufacturers exhaust their ability to produce more goods without adding labor, the pace of job creation should accelerate.
 It sounds simple enough. But as is often the case, what economic theory says and what happens are two different things. ''There are a lot of weak links in the chain between exchange rates and jobs,'' said Catherine L. Mann, senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, based in Washington. 
 Just because the euro rises 36 percent against the dollar -- as it has since the beginning of 2002 -- does not mean that American exports to the euro zone will rise by that amount in the same time frame. Last January, exports from the United States to the 15-nation European Union amounted to a strong $12.53 billion, up 6.3 percent from January 2003. And for all of 2003, American exports to the region rose 4.7 percent. Yet over the year, the euro rose 20 percent against the dollar.
 What gives? 
 First, trade between the United States and Europe -- the two wealthiest and most developed markets in the world -- is not the relatively simple trans-Atlantic trade that it was for centuries. Because many nations today -- most notably China -- link their currencies to the dollar, a decline in the dollar does not necessarily give the United States a competitive advantage on the Continent.
 ''While we may be able to lower our prices in Europe because of the stronger euro, so can every Asian country that pegs its currency to the dollar,'' said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers. 
 And because a large and growing chunk of American exports goes to countries whose exchange rates are pegged to the dollar, the decline of the dollar against the pound, for instance, simply does not have the same impact on domestic producers that it might have had two decades ago. ''The share of our trade with the developing world has increased substantially over time,'' Dr. Mann said. ''Europe isn't as important as it used to be.'' 
 Second, currency shifts often do not translate directly into changed prices for consumers. When the euro strengthens by 10 percent against the dollar, the price a shopper pays for a bottle of Beringer wine at a liquor store in Dortmund, Germany, will not necessarily fall. ''People who import the American-made goods take the opportunity to keep prices steady and increase their profits,'' said M. Cary Leahey, senior economist at Deutsche Bank.
 THIRD, while we may live in an age of just-in-time inventory and instantaneous communication, when it comes to packing and shipping crates and containers of goods on huge boats across large bodies of water, the pace is a little slower. And a great deal of international trade is bound by contracts that fix prices for long periods.
 ''People make decisions on where to source their components in advance and tie themselves into contracts that last for several months or years,'' said Ian C. Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, based in Valhalla, N.Y. 
 That is why economists say it can take up to two years for significant currency shifts to wend their way into trade figures. Finally, it isn't just the price of goods that dictates how much you buy; it's also the amount of cash jingling in your pocket. Here again, Europe -- whose comparatively high-income population should make it a natural destination for American-made goods -- has been lagging. 
 For several years, Europe's slow growth has turned it into a heavy caboose slowing the train of global growth. And with the European Central Bank predicting growth of just 1.8 percent for 2004, we should not expect demand for American exports to rise sharply, regardless of whether the dollar slips further against its rival trans-Atlantic currencies.
 The weakened dollar is having its expected effect. Over all, United States exports rose 4.58 percent in 2003, to $1.018 trillion, according to the Census Bureau. And in January 2004, exports were 8.5 percent higher than they were in January 2003. But the enfeebled greenback may not be working its magic quickly enough for a nation that has grown impatient for job growth.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Dollar vs. Euro''Graph tracks dollar to euro since 2002.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (60%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; Labor

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



104 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Imagining a $7-a-Gallon Future

BYLINE: By DANIEL YERGIN. 
Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, is the author of ''The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power.''

 BODY:
NO price in America is more visible, indeed inescapable, than that of gasoline. And Americans don't like the numbers they're seeing today, and their anger has turned high prices at the pump into highly flammable political fodder. OPEC's decision last week to cut production has further fueled the fire. 
 But what are those prices telling us? That driving this summer will be expensive? Or that $3 a gallon, which spouted last week at a California station, is our future? Or more worrying, that after many years of false alarms, the world is truly beginning to run out of oil? 
 That last question is at the center of a fierce debate. Adherents of the ''peak oil'' theory warn of a permanent oil shortage. In the next five or 10 years, they maintain, the world's capacity to produce oil will reach its geological limit and fall behind growing demand. They trace their arguments back to the geophysicist M. King Hubbert, who in 1956 accurately predicted that American oil production would reach its apex around 1970. In a recent book, ''Hubbert's Peak,'' Kenneth S. Defeyes, an emeritus professor of geology at Princeton, wrote that ''Global oil production will probably reach a peak sometime during this decade.'' Current prices, he adds, ''may be the preamble to a major crisis.'' 
 In ''Out of Gas,'' David Goodstein, a professor at the California Institute of Technology, also argues that world oil output will peak ''most probably within this decade'' and thereafter ''will decline forever.'' 
 For Americans rattled by current prices, this theory holds out the unsettling prospect of gasoline prices at $5, $6, $7 a gallon and higher still. In the face of such a grim prospect, $1.76 -- last week's national average -- fades in importance. 
 Of course, today's average price doesn't approach the one reached in 1981, around $2.80, adjusted for inflation, and prices in Europe are typically far higher than that. 
 Still, are the peakists right? 
 Yes, oil is a finite resource, and fear of running out has always haunted the petroleum industry. In the 1880's, John Archbold, who would succeed John D. Rockefeller as head of the Standard Oil Trust, began to sell his shares in the company because engineers told him that America's days as an oil producer were numbered. 
 After World War I, the American government's top oil expert predicted a coming ''gasoline famine.'' One solution was to cobble together the three easternmost provinces of the defunct Ottoman Empire into a new country, called Iraq, believed to be rich in oil resources and safely under British control.
 After World War II, fears of shortages spiked again, and the industry invented offshore drilling. (Today, 30 percent of America's crude oil comes from the Gulf of Mexico.) Reserves in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, discovered just before World War II, were rapidly developed. 
 The oil crises of the 1970's -- the 1973 Arab oil embargo and the 1979-80 Iranian revolution -- were also seen as the harbingers of the ''end of oil.'' In 1972, an international research group called the Club of Rome predicted the world would soon run short of natural resources. Spiraling oil prices in the following years -- from $3 a barrel to $34 a barrel -- seemed like a confirmation.
 Of course, that's not what happened. Supply steeply increased from new non-OPEC sources like Alaska and the North Sea; coal and nuclear power plants pushed oil out of electricity generation, and conservation reduced demand. By the mid-1980's, oil, supposedly headed for $100 a barrel, instead fell to as low as $6.
 Historically, then, dire oil predictions have been undone by two factors. One is the opening (or reopening) of territories to exploration by companies faced with a constant demand to replace declining reserves. The second is the tremendous impact of new technology. After World War I, seismic technology, used for locating enemy artillery, was adapted to oil field exploration. And in the 1990's, it became feasible to drill into deep offshore fields, which was inconceivable during those crisis years of the 1970's.
 Better technology and management have increased Russian output by 45 percent since 1998, making Russia the world's second-largest oil producer. And if United States sanctions are lifted on Libya, new investment there could push up production. In the meantime, advanced information technologies and sophisticated remote sensing techniques are making exploration and production much more efficient, which could make an additional 125 billion barrels available over the next decade, an amount greater than the current proved reserves of Iraq.
 Those who don't believe a shortage is imminent do not deny that a peak will eventually be reached. They just believe that it is much farther off into the future. 
 ''You can certainly make a good case that sometime before the year 2050 conventional oil production will have peaked,'' said the head of exploration for a major oil company. He and others believe, however, that oil production will simply plateau, and then farther into the future begin to decline. 
 They also argue that the proponents of peak oil consistently underestimate the reserves of regions in Russia, the Caspian Sea, the Middle East and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Also, they say, the industry will continue to increase the percentage of oil that can be recovered from a given field.
 A major question concerns the real size of the Persian Gulf reserves. The world's proven reserves, in total, currently stand at 1.2 trillion barrels (almost double the level of the early 1970's). Of that, nearly 60 percent is in the Persian Gulf. But many worried about near-term oil shortages believe that the gulf reserves been overstated for political purposes by Persian Gulf countries. Others believe that with so much still to be explored, the reserves will prove to be much larger. Both views may be right.
 Meanwhile, technology is expanding the definition of oil. In the decades ahead, more and more of our gasoline, heating oil and jet fuel will be made of so-called unconventional oils. These include petroleum mined from Canada's oil sands, once prohibitively expensive to extract, and liquids derived from natural gas. Conversion of large, remote deposits of natural gas into usable liquids appears to be on the edge of commercial viability.
 The world will need all these sources of supply, since even with increased energy conservation, economic growth, led by China and India, could well mean that the world will use 20 percent more oil a decade hence. 
 Yet it looks as if supplies will meet that demand. If there is an obstacle, it won't be the predicted peak in production, at least in the next few decades. Rather, it will be the politics and policies of oil-producing countries and swings in global economic growth. And the extent of these difficulties, whatever they turn out to be, will register in the ups and downs at the gasoline pump.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CALIFORNIA, 1950'S AND 2004 -- For 30 cents a gallon, they used to check your oil and tire pressure, too. Now, below, $3 gets you one gallon of gas. (Photo by Paul Almasy/Corbis)
 (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (89%); CARTELS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); WORLD WAR I (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%) Daniel Yergin

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



105 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Outsourcing As a Trend, Not a Fad

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Sitting here in Beijing, the new playing field for global competition in industry after industry, I agree that outsourcing is not a fad and that it will be with us for a long time (''Outsourcing Joins the M.B.A. Curriculum'' Executive Life, March 28). But traditional M.B.A. programs continue to respond to new trends through a Band-Aid approach, by appending a course.
 One course cannot do it anymore, given the major shifts in business today, largely engendered by the convergence of globalization and the information technology revolution. The specialized skills required to successfully orchestrate and manage an outsourcing agenda need to be cultivated and nurtured as an integral part of a management curriculum. 
 This fall, the new M.B.A. curriculum at our school will confront head-on the need to better prepare students to operate in a fast-changing global economy by imparting the skills and tools to realign, redesign and reconfigure business operations for the 21st century.
 Outsourcing, for example, involves complex cross-border, cross-cultural managerial tasks that must be treated as an integral part of a business, especially as companies stay focused on their customers.

Denis Fred Simon
Beijing, March 28

The writer is dean of the Lally School of Management and Technology at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); CURRICULA (90%); TRENDS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); WRITERS (73%) Graduate Schools and Students; Executives and Management; Labor; Foreign Labor

PERSON: denis fred (Dean) simon

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) CHINA (91%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



106 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 13; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-4-04

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Eurabia? 

BYLINE: By Niall Ferguson. 
Niall Ferguson is Herzog professor of history at the Stern School of Business, New York University. His book ''Colossus: The Price of America's Empire'' will be published this month by Penguin Press.

 BODY:
In the 52nd chapter of his ''Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,'' Edward Gibbon posed one of the great counterfactual questions of history. If the French had failed to defeat an invading Muslim army at the Battle of Poitiers in A.D. 732, would all of Western Europe have succumbed to Islam?
 ''Perhaps,'' speculated Gibbon with his inimitable irony, ''the interpretation of the Koran would now be taught in the schools of Oxford, and her pulpits might demonstrate to a circumcised people the sanctity and truth of the revelation of Mahomet.''
 When those words were published in 1788, the idea of a Muslim Oxford could scarcely have seemed more fanciful. The last Muslim forces had been driven from Spain in 1492; the Ottoman advance through Eastern Europe had been decisively halted at the gates of Vienna in 1683. 
 Today, however, the idea seems somewhat less risible. The French historian Alain Besancon is one of a number of European intellectuals who detect a significant threat to the continent's traditional Christian culture. The Egyptian-born writer Bat Yeor has for some years referred to the rise of a new ''Eurabia'' that is hostile in equal measure to the United States and Israel. Two years ago, Pat Buchanan published an apocalyptic book titled ''The Death of the West,'' prophesying that declining European fertility and immigration from Muslim countries could turn ''the cradle of Western civilization'' into ''its grave.''
 Such Spenglerian talk has gained credibility since 9/11. The ''3/11'' bombings in Madrid confirm that terrorists sympathetic to Osama bin Laden continue to operate with comparative freedom in European cities. Some American commentators suspect Europeans of wanting to appease radical Islam. Others detect in sporadic manifestations of anti-Semitism a sinister conjunction of old fascism and new fundamentalism.
 Most European Muslims are, of course, law-abiding citizens with little sympathy for terrorist attacks on European cities. Moreover, they are drawn from a wide range of countries and of Islamic traditions, few of them close to Arabian Wahhabism. Nevertheless, there is no question that the continent is experiencing fundamental demographic and cultural changes whose long-term consequences no one can foresee. 
 To begin with, consider the extraordinary prospect of European demographic decline. A hundred years ago -- when Europe's surplus population was still crossing the oceans to populate America and Australasia -- the countries that make up today's European Union accounted for around 14 percent of the world's population. Today that figure is down to around 6 percent, and by 2050, according to a United Nations forecast, it will be just over 4 percent. The decline is absolute as well as relative. Even allowing for immigration, the United Nations projects that the population of the current European Union members will fall by around 7.5million over the next 45 years. There has not been such a sustained reduction in the European population since the Black Death of the 14th century. (By contrast, the United States population is projected to grow by 44 percent between 2000 and 2050.)
 With the median age of Greeks, Italians and Spaniards projected to exceed 50 by 2050 -- roughly 1 in 3 people will be 65 or over -- the welfare states created in the wake of World War II plainly require drastic reform. Either today's newborn Europeans will spend their working lives paying 75 percent tax rates or retirement and ''free'' health care will simply have to be abolished. Alternatively (or additionally), Europeans will have to tolerate more legal immigration. 
 But where will the new immigrants come from? It seems very likely that a high proportion will come from neighboring countries, and Europe's fastest-growing neighbors today are predominantly if not wholly Muslim. A youthful Muslim society to the south and east of the Mediterranean is poised to colonize -- the term is not too strong -- a senescent Europe. 
 This prospect is all the more significant when considered alongside the decline of European Christianity. In the Netherlands, Britain, Germany, Sweden and Denmark today, fewer than 1 in 10 people now attend church once a month or more. Some 52 percent of Norwegians and 55 percent of Swedes say that God did not matter to them at all. While the social and sexual freedoms that matter to such societies are antithetical to Muslim fundamentalism, their religious tolerance leaves these societies weak in the face of fanaticism.
 What the consequences of these changes will be is very difficult to say. A creeping Islamicization of a decadent Christendom is one conceivable result: while the old Europeans get even older and their religious faith weaker, the Muslim colonies within their cities get larger and more overt in their religious observance. A backlash against immigration by the economically Neanderthal right is another: aging electorates turn to demagogues who offer sealed borders without explaining who exactly is going to pay for the pensions and health care. Nor can we rule out the possibility of a happy fusion between rapidly secularized second-generation Muslims and their post-Christian neighbors. Indeed, we may conceivably end up with all three: Situation 1 in France, Situation 2 in Austria and Situation 3 in Britain. 
 Still, it is hard not to be reminded of Gibbon -- especially now that his old university's Center for Islamic Studies has almost completed work on its new premises. In addition to the traditional Oxford quadrangle, the building is expected to feature ''a prayer hall with traditional dome and minaret tower.''
 When I first glimpsed a model of that minaret, I confess, the phrase that sprang to mind was indeed ''decline and fall.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Alex Majoli
 Magnum)Chart: ''DECLINE AND FALL''The world's lowest fertility rates, measured by number of children born per womanArmenia 1.10Latvia 1.10Bulgaria 1.10Ukraine 1.10Spain 1.13Slovenia 1.14Russian Federation 1.14Czech Republic 1.16China 1.17Belarus 1.20Estonia 1.20Hungary 1.20Italy 1.20 Source: The New York Times Almanac, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); IMMIGRATION (86%); TERRORISM (86%); TRENDS (78%); HISTORY (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); WRITERS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); REFUGEES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%) Immigration and Refugees; Islam; Social Conditions and Trends; Population

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Niall Ferguson

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); BELARUS (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); LATVIA (58%); ESTONIA (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); BULGARIA (53%); UKRAINE (53%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



107 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 27; Mutual Funds Report

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: A Smooth Takeoff, a Bumpy Descent

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Kenneth N. Gilpin contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
AFTER a year of dramatic gains, domestic stock mutual funds drifted back toward earth in the first quarter, rising 3 percent and barely outpacing fixed-income funds, which continued to benefit from rock-bottom interest rates.
 The stock market's pause was natural and perhaps expected, many fund managers said, given gains of more than 40 percent since last April. Mixed economic news and overly optimistic expectations tempered the market in the first quarter this year, though major themes emerged.
 Small-capitalization funds generally outperformed large-cap shares while international funds, especially those invested in Asia, did better than domestic shares. Funds specializing in real estate, communications and natural resources were also strong, while tech funds grew just 1.2 percent and precious metal funds dipped 1.4 percent. 
 The mediocre performance of technology stocks, which soared last year, hurt large-cap growth funds, which gained only 1.51 percent for the first quarter after rising 21.6 percent in 2003. Midcap and small-cap growth funds, which rose even faster than large-cap growth funds last year, grew more than 4 percent each, on average, in the quarter.
 The stock-market rally last year was predicated on a continued improvement in earnings this year, several analysts said. While profits have risen in some areas of the economy, investors are starting to examine valuations of individual companies with more skepticism. 
 ''Now people are saying, 'I know news is good, but I want to know how much good news is built into the stock price,''' said Thomas McManus, chief investment strategist in the equity research department at Banc of America Securities. ''A lot of people are spending some time now thinking about asset allocation, manager selection or stock selection.''
 There is still plenty of growth left in the market for companies that produce strong earnings, said Tom Marsico, chairman of Marsico Capital, which manages about $32 billion in equities. Though his Growth and Focus funds were ''treading water'' last quarter, Mr. Marsico said, he was adding to his positions in ''higher quality'' stock names like General Electric, Caterpillar and Federal Express.
 Mr. Marsico expects the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to rise about 15 percent, to 1,300, during the next 12 to 15 months. Among specialized funds, communications funds were top performers, thanks partly to the bidding in February for AT&T Wireless, which drove up shares of many telecom stocks. Real estate funds rose 11.7 percent, benefiting from the Federal Reserve's cautious stance on interest rates and from demand for funds that pay stable dividends.
 ''Real estate funds are being driven by people looking for yield, but also for safety,'' said Tom Roseen, a senior research analyst at Lipper. ''Over the last four years, REIT's were the only equity class to be up each year.'' 
 That party may come to an end, Mr. Roseen said, if interest rates rise sharply.
 Low interest rates have also helped most fixed-income funds. Bonds rallied toward the end of the quarter after several disappointing employment reports and signals from the Fed that it was in no hurry to raise rates. Funds specializing in long-term government bonds rose 4.9 percent in the quarter, the best of any fixed-income category.
 Those gains could disappear if good economic news improves the recovery outlook and sends stocks higher, analysts said. Still, investing with an eye toward retirement can insulate bond investors from short-term swings in interest rates. Funds run by American Century Investments, which buys zero-coupon bonds at a discount and holds them to maturity, held three of the top five spots in the taxable bond category in the first quarter; its Target 2025 fund jumped 9 percent.
 ''If rates rise, it's bad for bonds, but if you hold to maturity, you are immunized against this,'' said Jeremy Fletcher, portfolio manager at American Century Investments in San Francisco. ''It's a way to help you sleep at night.''
 While bonds are known for relatively slow, steady performance, international stocks typically ride a roller coaster. Asian stock funds were among the best performers last quarter, up 10.8 percent. Previous rallies tended to track ups and downs in American shares, but fund managers said Asia was quickly becoming a more autonomous region, built around China.
 Despite jitters about a potential slowdown, China's surging economy is lifting growth in Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea. And after years of recession and deflation, Japan is convincing skeptics that it is finally on the mend. ''Until recently, Japan was the odd man out in Asia,'' said Anthony L.T. Cragg, portfolio manager at the Strong Asia Pacific fund, which jumped 11.2 percent in the quarter. ''Now we've seen China come onstream in a big way. We're possibly in the position of having two driving forces in Asia.''
 Japan is not only running on fuel from China, but also on years of interest rates near zero. That has helped Japan's banks rebuild their balance sheets and is lifting real estate prices in parts of Tokyo. ''The real buzz out there is about asset reflation,'' said Mark Headly, who manages the Matthews Japan fund, referring to rising land prices. The fund rose 12.4 percent in the quarter.
 Though the euro fell against the dollar in the quarter, European stock funds still rose 4.3 percent.
 International equity funds are not the only path to markets overseas. The Third Avenue Value fund scours the globe for well-financed companies that sell at substantial discounts. The fund, with assets of $3.3 billion, holds stakes in Toyota Industries in Japan and Hutchinson Whampoa in Hong Kong, as well as, in the United States, more than 5 percent of Kmart. 
 ''We're safe and cheap; that's what we do,'' said Martin Whitman, co-chief investment officer of the fund, which climbed 9 percent.
 The Bruce fund in Chicago and the Wasatch Small Cap Value fund are among those that bought undervalued shares with notable success. The Bruce fund, which has just under $10 million in assets and gained about 22 percent in the quarter, according to Lipper, has benefited from the increased price of Elan, a financially troubled Irish pharmaceutical company. The fund also holds shares of the America Service Group, which provides health care services at prisons for state and local governments. Wasatch Small Cap rose 10.8 percent, thanks in part to holdings of Nature's Bounty, a vitamin manufacturer.
 INVESTORS are rewarding mutual fund companies that run a clean ship. In the last four months of 2003, according to figures compiled by the Investment Company Institute, an industry trade group, investors pulled a net $10.7 billion a month, on average, out of funds run by companies including Putnam Investments and Janus Capital that have been under investigation by financial regulators over trading practices. By contrast, fund companies not named in government investigations had an inflow of $28.9 billion, on average, in those four months.
 While figures for the first quarter are not yet available, outflows from funds that were the focus of regulators are likely to continue for several months, said Brian Reid, deputy chief economist at the institute. Once companies ''got named in the press, investors walked with their feet.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Cragg tracks trends for the Strong Asia Pacific fund.(Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 30)Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)(pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BONDS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Interest Rates; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: AT&T INC (84%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (57%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



108 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3; The Nation

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: In Campaign 2004, the Crystal Ball Is Fuzzy

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT Bush and Senator John Kerry have spent close to $40 million on television advertisements in the past month alone. Their campaigns have plotted meticulously orchestrated battle plans. Mr. Bush's aides have even charted attacks on Mr. Kerry that they say will take them right through the first day of summer. Barely a week goes by without Bush or Kerry aides disappearing for a long, private strategy retreat.
 But why bother?
 It is hard to remember a presidential campaign with so many potentially critical and unpredictable events on the horizon, poised to rewrite the story line of the race within a news cycle. Because campaigns are at base a struggle for control -- over the campaign agenda, over what voters are thinking about, over what your opponent is talking about -- this has become an unsettling realization for both the Kerry and Bush campaigns. 
 Consider what everyone knows is going to happen before next November. There will be a transfer of power in Iraq this summer. The government will release new job creation and economic growth figures every month between now and Election Day. Gas prices will go up to among their highest levels in history -- or will go down. 
 A federal court will rule, probably by the summer, on the legality of multimillion-dollar expenditures by independent Democratic committees that are helping Mr. Kerry keep up with Mr. Bush in the television war. The commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks is scheduled to complete its report the same week that the Democratic National Convention opens in Boston on July 26, giving the party a chance to take advantage of any further damaging revelations. And a week before the third anniversary of the attacks the Republicans will nominate Mr. Bush just a few miles north of Ground Zero in New York, bringing a renewed examination of the attack, this time in a supercharged political context that will no doubt again raise the question of whether the White House is exploiting a tragedy for political gain.
 There's even more nervousness about the unknown. Will there be a pre-election terror attack, a concern obviously heightened by the pre-election train bombing in Madrid last month? Will Osama bin Laden be captured? Will weapons of mass destruction finally be found in Iraq? And will Bill Clinton really publish his memoir midway through the year, as has been promised, and if so, what dirt will the former president dish? ''There are a lot of outside forces that are going to be important,'' said Ken Mehlman, Mr. Bush's campaign manager. ''We recognize that. And we have got to deal with that.''
 Campaign strategists say they have been busy planning for all these contingencies. But both sides learned a lesson when the normally sure-footed Bush White House and the less-sure-footed Kerry campaign seemed caught unaware by the publication of a book by Richard A. Clarke, Mr. Bush's former counterterrorism chief, challenging the president's record on terrorism.
 While every campaign must anticipate shocks and bumps along the way (think of the New York City mayoral candidates whose primary election on Sept. 11 was canceled after it began) the sheer number of wildcards is of particular concern in a race that both sides expect to remain tight until the very end. A single event in October can wipe out everything the campaigns did until then.
 ''Every little change in the environment is reacted to with greater ferocity because people know now that the country is deeply divided and the likelihood is we could have another election that is extremely close,'' said David Axelrod, a Democratic consultant.
 Nothing, it seems, can be taken for granted. Take the prospect of the capture of killing of Mr. bin Laden. Mr. Kerry's advisers are clearly worried that an event like that would provide a major lift to Mr. Bush. The White House certainly tends to agree.
 But after Mr. Hussein was captured on Dec. 13, Mr. Bush enjoyed a spike of voter approval that barely lasted through the New Year. And what if the capture of Mr. bin Laden brings with it disclosures that the United States had missed opportunities to seize him earlier, a finding that might lend some heft to Mr. Clarke's criticisms. Mr. Clarke said that Mr. Bush's focus on Iraq diverted him from hunting down Mr. bin Laden.
 Along those lines, Republicans and Democrats are alert to the possibility that Al Qaeda would respond to the capture of Mr. bin Laden with an attack to show that it was not dependent on him, an event that certainly would blunt the significance of his apprehension.
 Beyond that, the transfer of power from American authorities to an Iraqi government takes place on July 1. Should it go well, Mr. Bush could presumably claim that he restored democracy and peace to Iraq, in addition to removing a dangerous dictator. But the White House got a reminder of one alternative course with the carnage in Falluja last week. Support for the Iraq war remains high, but Democrats say it could be replaced by impatience if Americans keep dying, or if civil rule breaks down after a new government takes power.
 Officials in both parties say anxiety about the economy is not as palpable as it was in 1992, when Bill Clinton defeated Mr. Bush's father in an election that was based largely on economic issues. Thus, with inflation, interest rates and unemployment relatively low, one major economic statistic is looming as critical over these next six months: the monthly job creation figures. 
 The government reported on Friday that the economy created 308,000 jobs in March, a number that had the Bush White House celebrating. Mr. Bush's aides argued that strong job numbers this summer would complicate Mr. Kerry's effort to make the economy the centerpiece of his challenge to Mr. Bush, taking away one tangible measure he has been able to use so far to assail the president's economic policies. At least 125,000 new jobs a month would be needed to keep pace with population gains, so anything below 200,000 would probably keep the issue on the table.
 Gas prices are another variable that has concerned both sides, as was obvious by the sparring last week by Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry over the issue. Gasoline prices typically go up in the summer, before starting to come down some time in the fall. Both campaigns are contemplating a battle that could take place against a backdrop of grumbling motorists facing record gasoline prices in crucial states like Ohio and Missouri. That is why Mr. Bush moved last week to spotlight statements Mr. Kerry had made in the past advocating a 50-cent-per- gallon tax hike on gasoline, while Mr. Kerry has reminded voters that the president and the vice president have made at least part of their fortunes in the energy industry
 Finally, there are upcoming events that might appear relatively trivial, but are no less consequential. Take Mr. Clinton's book. It certainly has the ability to roil the waters by raising all kinds of subjects, some helpful to Mr. Kerry (the Clinton economic recovery) and some perhaps not so helpful. (Do you really have to ask?)
 And finally, the Olympics take place in Athens in a two-week stretch between the two conventions, at what should be a very busy time for Mr. Kerry, coming out of his, and Mr. Bush, going into his. It could divert the electorate's attention for a few weeks. At the rate things are going, that is a break that a lot of people might welcome.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The state of gas prices and the ability of the Iraqi police to keep order are among the factors that could affect the presidential race. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)
(Photo by Associated Press)
 Job-creation numbers will be watched closely. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); JOB CREATION (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Adam Nagourney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



109 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: For Once, Latin Americans Ask the U.S. to Butt In

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
DURING the 1990's, only one president of a country in the Americas was overthrown in a coup: Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti, who was toppled by his military in 1991 and was granted exile in the United States. Since 2000, however, six elected heads of state have been ousted, including Mr. Aristide again last month. This time he claimed that the United States forced him into exile.
 The new precariousness of elected leaders suggests that an epidemic of instability is again sweeping Latin America. But some leaders in the region are wondering privately whether President Bush has retreated from the American commitment to strengthening their political and economic institutions, a policy of Democratic and Republican administrations for two decades. 
 Shortly before he left office in 2003, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil said in an interview on Mexican television that became famous throughout the region that President Bush ''knows nothing about Latin America'' and ''doesn't have the same web of contacts in the region as previous administrations.''
 ''The first time I talked with President Bush, he showed a complete hands-off attitude'' about defending free markets and democratic values, Mr. Cardoso said, adding, ''Since we are not a threat, we have been consigned to irrelevance.'' Today, expressions of such attitudes are a staple in the region's press, and they worry some American experts on Latin America.
 To such thinkers a pattern seems to have emerged in which the United States does not come to the rescue of friends of democracy and American policies like Gonzalo Sanchez de Losada in Bolivia or Fernando de la Rua in Argentina, even as it acts to help bring down leaders it cannot stomach, like Mr. Aristide and President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 Roger Noriega, the Bush administration's assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs, argues that nothing could be further from the truth. While ''we have made a conscious decision that we can't bail out every government that gets itself into financial trouble,'' he said in a telephone interview from Washington, ''we are committed to promoting and defending representative democracy across the political spectrum.''
 But a contrast with previous administrations remains. When Jamil Mahuad, the president of Ecuador, was toppled in January 2000 by a coalition of Indian groups and military officers, the Clinton administration told the junta members succeeding him that theirs would be a pariah government, cut off from aid and recognition. As a result, power passed within hours to the vice president, Gustavo Noboa, and the United States was credited with helping preserve constitutional order.
 No such message seems to have been sent in April 2002, when military and business leaders in Venezuela briefly overthrew and jailed Mr. Chavez. Instead, the United States argued that he had resigned, and it endorsed the new government. As things worked out, the new government collapsed within a day, bringing Mr. Chavez back to power. But even though he survived -- more intransigent than ever and suspicious of any opposition -- the United States was seen in the region as having backed a coup attempt. 
 Since the outset of the war on terror, Washington has seemed to many in Latin America to be disengaged from the region except when a crisis forces it to react. 
 ''This administration has been much less interested in Latin American and Caribbean issues than previous ones,'' said Robert S. Gelbard, a former career State Department official who held senior posts in the administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton. ''It is less committed, involved and willing to pour political energy into the process of consolidating democracy.''
 The first Bush administration helped organize an embargo against the government that overthrew Mr. Aristide in 1991, insisted that President Alberto Fujimori of Peru call elections after he dissolved Peru's congress and helped broker an end to El Salvador's civil war.
 It also created a plan to help Latin America out of its financial crises, a stance the Clinton administration endorsed when Mexico was in danger of collapsing late in 1994. But when Argentina imploded in 2001, the current Bush administration largely stood on the sidelines.
 ''There was a consensus of the international community that Argentina had dug itself into a fiscal hole and was not going to be able to dig itself out just by plowing a lot more loans and debt onto the heads of the Argentine people,'' Mr. Noriega said in explaining that policy. ''But they are digging themselves out now with our help, making progress and turning the corner.'' The United States did press for the International Monetary Fund to roll over Argentine debt, but has not provided cash aid.
 Mr. Sanchez de Losada was overthrown last October by a coalition of Indian and labor groups. He is an enthusiastic advocate of free markets who supported an American war on drugs that many Bolivians disliked. Yet after he personally warned Mr. Bush of rising discontent at home and asked for $150 million in emergency aid, Bolivia received only $10 million.
 ''There was lots of verbal support, but when it came down to the hard facts, the money was not there, and it still has not emerged,'' said Miguel Diaz of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, who in general likes Mr. Bush's policies in the region.
 As the cases of Argentina, Bolivia and Haiti indicate, the threat to stability today bears little resemblance to the classic Latin American military coup. Instead, the model is one of a popular uproar that forces an elected but unpopular (and in Mr. Aristide's case increasingly autocratic) leader to step down.
 So while leaders may no longer look over their shoulders at the barracks, they have to worry about being thrown out of office because an impatient citizenry expects immediate results from a weak state with weak institutions. ''That's an extremely disturbing attitude, because it provides no incentive to engage in democratic politics'' and ''only emboldens and heartens groups that are more interested in violence,'' said Michael Shifter of Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington-based group.
 In 1991, the Organization of American States adopted rules for cooperative action in an effort to assure that the turn to democratic rule would be made permanent.
 Now, in Venezuela and Haiti, the Bush administration has been criticized for failing to support that policy. In Haiti, it focused more on detaching Mr. Aristide from the levers of power than on shoring up democracy with new political institutions and help for the economy. ''They think they have solved the problem by getting rid of a leader, when the problem is far more complex'' in Haiti, said Arturo Valenzuela, the National Security Council's director for Latin America under President Clinton. ''My fear is that what we've done now is to create a Peron, who will always be there, forever and ever.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Unrest ousted Argentina's Fernando de la Rua, left, in 2001, and Bolivia's Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada in 2003. (Photo by Reuters)
 (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COUPS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (66%) Politics and Government; Elections; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%) Larry Rohter; George W (Pres) Bush; Fernando Henrique Cardoso

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); HAITI (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); BRAZIL (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



110 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; Executive Pay: A Special Report

LENGTH: 3155 words

HEADLINE: Two Pay Packages, Two Different Galaxies

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
RUNAWAY executive pay generates more shareholder rage than any other corporate issue today. So far this year, almost 40 percent of the proposals to be voted on at annual meetings relate to how much the corner-office crowd pulls down, according to the Investor Responsibility Research Center in Washington. That is up from 19 percent two years ago. 
 But even as shareholders' ire rises, so, too, does chief executives' pay. As the most recent numbers show, compensation for the boss remains stuck on the up escalator. Granted, the rate of increase may not be as high as it was previously, and some chief executives took a pay cut this year. But for the most part, critics say, this year's figures prove that the compensation committees of corporate boards are still in a bounteous mood. 
 Given human nature, few expect executives themselves to lobby for lower pay. And because boards seem reluctant to rein in compensation, some critics conclude that the system is irreparably broken. 
 ''One of the things you are supposed to do when you rise to a leadership position is to be an exemplar, and a man who rises to be an exemplar should not be fanning the flames of envy,'' said Charles T. Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway and chairman of Wesco Financial in Los Angeles. ''But now people are afraid they will leave something on the table; there will be one damn perk that somebody else has that they don't have. They just want every last nickel.''
 Yet there are some corporate executives who do not grab for every last perquisite, who embrace the concept of enough rather than ever more. James D. Sinegal of Costco Wholesale is one. His pay package seems a throwback to another era, especially when compared with the lavish compensation of Henry R. Silverman of Cendant. A look at those two chief executives provides a stark contrast in how American companies are approaching compensation for their leaders these days.

Costco's Old-School Chief
 When it comes to pay, Mr. Sinegal, president and chief executive of Costco, the warehouse retailer based in Issaquah, Wash., seems to inhabit an alternate universe. His salary last year, $350,000, was not much different from the $300,000 he earned 10 years ago. He received 150,000 stock options last year but has refused a bonus in each of the last three years. The terms of his employment contract could fit on a cocktail napkin. 
 As a Costco founder, Mr. Sinegal, 68, has amassed an enormous stake in the company: three million shares. At current prices, his holding is worth $113 million. 
 ''What is striking about Sinegal's compensation compared to various other C.E.O.'s with $100 million-plus stock positions, is that he hasn't sought a full competitive pay and severance package as part of having enough skin in the game,'' said Brian Foley, an executive compensation expert in White Plains. 
 Mr. Foley said Mr. Sinegal's salary, bonus and realized stock option gains over the last 10 years totaled less than $11 million, or an average of $1.1 million a year. Adding the value of his unexercised options at the end of the 2003 fiscal year, the salary, bonus and stock options total $25 million over the decade. Several chief executives -- including Mr. Silverman of Cendant, whose remarkable pay package is examined in detail later in this article -- made more than double that amount last year alone. 
 ''By today's standards, Sinegal's compensation clearly seems skinny for a company whose stock price has roughly quadrupled,'' Mr. Foley said. 
 In the most recent proxy, members of Costco's compensation committee describe Mr. Sinegal with a word seldom heard in connection with chief executive compensation: ''underpaid.'' The committee members are Hamilton E. James, vice chairman of the Blackstone Group, an investment firm; Jill S. Ruckelshaus, a director at the Lincoln National Corporation; Mr. Munger; and Benjamin S. Carson Sr., director of pediatric neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins University. Each makes $30,000 a year for serving on the board and receives options on 12,000 shares of stock, as all Costco directors do. The committee does not employ consultants to determine executive pay at the company. 
 ''Jim is a highly ethical capitalist of the old school,'' said Mr. Munger, a Costco director since 1997. ''He's not in some lofty place where he's sitting around with compensation consultants. He must visit hundreds of stores per year; he's mixing with the troops. If you were to rank retail executives, I would say Sinegal would be in the top 10 of the last century, as far as talent and work. And it's there in the numbers.'' 
 A 2000 survey by Towers Perrin, the consulting firm, found that the pay of chief executives, on average, was 531 times that of their lowest-paid rank-and-file workers. But Mr. Sinegal's salary is less than 10 times that earned by his company's top hourly employees and roughly double the salary of a Costco warehouse manager, he said.
 ''But bear in mind I have been rewarded by the stock,'' he said. ''I rejected my bonus because we had a couple of years where we hadn't performed up to our standards. We were more profitable than the year before, but we didn't hit the standards we had set for ourselves, so we didn't think we were entitled.'' 
 While Mr. Sinegal keeps a lid on his own pay, his company is known for providing salaries and health care benefits to lower-level workers that are higher than average for the industry. For example, Mr. Sinegal said, a forklift driver at the company typically makes more than $40,000 annually, after three years on the job. And Costco pays 92.5 percent of employees' health care costs.
 ''We just believe firmly that if you're taking care of your customers and taking care of your people, you're not too far off target,'' Mr. Sinegal said. ''The profits will come and you'll be successful.'' 
 One measure of how this approach succeeds is found in the rate of theft by customers and employees at Costco stores -- what the retail industry charmingly calls shrinkage. Mr. Sinegal says such losses run under two-tenths of 1 percent at Costco each year. Other companies have 10 to 15 times that amount of theft. 
 Unlike many other chief executives, Mr. Sinegal has not sold a great deal of stock over the years. George Muzea, an expert in insider sales at Muzea Advisors in Reno, Nev., said Mr. Sinegal had made just six trades since February 1998, selling stock worth $37 million over the period.
 Mr. Sinegal attributed his work ethic and management philosophy to his mother and father and a Catholic school education. An important mentor was Sol Price, founder of Price Clubs, a warehouse retailer that merged with Costco in 1993. 
 ''He clearly taught me everything I know about the business,'' he said of Mr. Price. ''When we started Costco, the idea was to build an organization that would have strength and be around for a long time. There was never any exit strategy, and that gives you a different mind-set off the bat.'' 
 Mr. Munger called Mr. Sinegal one of a rare breed of chief executives who are worth far more than they are paid. ''Here's Sinegal,'' Mr. Munger said. ''Not part of a Wall Street scene in any way. He just has a moral compass. He has that old-fashioned idea that being an exemplar is important.''
 But Mr. Sinegal countered that it is just good business. ''If you're going to say to all the people that you're working with, 'We want you to treat the customers honestly; don't lie and don't cheat,' it is somewhat hypocritical if you're not following the same rules,'' he said. ''Everybody is watching you every minute anyways. If they think the message you're sending out is phony, they're going to say, 'Who does he think he is?' It's again good business. But it is also an obligation.''

Cendant Piles It On
 IF Mr. Sinegal's compensation is skinny, then corpulent is the word that comes to mind when considering the pay bestowed on Mr. Silverman, the chairman and chief executive of Cendant, the travel, real estate and direct marketing concern. 
 Last year, Mr. Silverman received salary of $3.3 million and a bonus of almost $14 million, and he realized $37 million in options gains. But the company did not stop there. In 2003, Cendant shareholders contributed $1.025 million to Mr. Silverman's pension plan and paid premiums of $4.574 million for a $100 million life insurance policy. 
 ''Salary is clearly excessive, the annual bonus is excessive, former grants of stock options were clearly excessive, and the provision of life insurance is also excessive,'' said Paul Hodgson, senior research associate at the Corporate Library, a governance research organization in Portland, Me.
 Cendant also takes pains to ensure that Mr. Silverman, who has been chief executive of the company and its predecessor, HFS Inc., since 1990, receives each and every nickel to which he is entitled. ''Due to an administrative error,'' the company's most recent proxy said, ''Mr. Silverman was underpaid by $50,000 in 2002 and a payroll adjustment was made in 2003.'' The $50,000 that the company hurried to reimburse Mr. Silverman amounted to less than half of 1 percent of his 2002 salary and bonus. 
 Although he received no options last year, he has gotten so many grants over the years that the value of his unexercised options holdings totaled $287 million at the end of last year. He owns 41.6 million Cendant shares, or 4.07 percent of the stock outstanding. At recent prices, that stake is worth more than $1 billion. 
 The terms of Mr. Silverman's 10-year employment contract, struck in July 2002, are similarly lavish, Mr. Hodgson said. The contract ensures that the company will provide -- for life -- medical and welfare benefits, office and clerical support, use of corporate aircraft on terms applicable to senior executives of the company, access to a corporate car and driver, appropriate security when traveling on company business and reimbursement of any properly documented business expenses. 
 Even by today's standards, 10- year contracts, especially those with guaranteed salaries and bonuses like Mr. Silverman's, are highly unusual in corporate America. A study by Equilar Inc., a compensation analysis firm in San Mateo, Calif., of executive employment contracts at 70 large companies found that only 1 percent of the agreements carried 10-year terms. The average length is 3.1 years. 
 Fewer than half the contracts studied by Equilar -- 45 percent -- had a minimum salary guarantee, and only 16 percent had minimum guaranteed bonus arrangements. Mr. Silverman's bonus deal is set up so that he is guaranteed annually as much as $100,000 for every penny a share that Cendant earns. 
 Then there is the post-retirement consulting arrangement that gives Mr. Silverman $83,000 a month (or $996,000 a year) for as long as he lives. In exchange for this pay, Mr. Silverman has agreed to provide advice and services to Cendant for no more than 90 days a year. 
 ''This level of benefits is more appropriate for a lord and his fiefdom, rather than the C.E.O. of a publicly held company,'' Mr. Hodgson said.
 A Cendant spokesman declined to make Mr. Silverman available for an interview and said he would not comment on the executive's pay.
 But Leonard S. Coleman, the Cendant director who is also chairman of the compensation committee of the board, made this statement: ''The compensation package is a reflection of the belief and foresight the board of directors had in 2002, altering terms of payment from being equity heavy to direct compensation, and its belief that Mr. Silverman's continuing vision and management would bring even greater rewards to the Cendant portfolio. The company's outstanding performance this past year inarguably proves that the board was correct. 
 ''Mr. Silverman's compensation is a reflection of the board's respect for his vision, business model and management skill,'' Mr. Coleman added. ''The Cendant model was Mr. Silverman's creation and his direct and continuing hands-on contribution is invaluable.''
 Mr. Coleman also noted that Cendant's stock in the last two years has outperformed broad market indexes by more than 10 percent.
 The Cendant proxy for 2003 said that Mr. Silverman did not receive a salary increase during the year, even though his employment agreement entitled him to a 3.3 percent increase, and that he gave up $46 million worth of options he could have received under the contract. Mr. Foley, the compensation expert, called that a significant giveback, but he said, ''At least for now, it seems to pale when compared to the option grants he got on 12 million shares from 1999 through 2001, his $260 million of realized option gains for 1998 to 2003 and the $287 million of unrealized option spread as of Dec. 31, 2003.'' 
 Mr. Silverman's pay has stirred up some shareholder outrage. The Catholic Equity Funds, a mutual fund concern that owns Cendant shares, submitted a proposal that would require the company to limit Mr. Silverman's compensation to 100 times the average compensation paid to the company's nonmanagerial workers in the previous year. Under the proposal, the chief executive would be entitled to more than that amount only if the company achieved one or more goals mainly reflecting his contributions. 
 In a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission asking it to keep the proposal from being voted on by shareholders, Eric J. Bock, Cendant's corporate secretary, said that if Mr. Silverman's compensation were capped at 100 times the salary of nonmanagerial workers, he would receive $2.7 million even though his contract guaranteed him $3.3 million plus a bonus. In attacking the proposal, Mr. Bock wrote, ''How will the company distinguish between those achievements stemming from 'the C.E.O.'s contribution' versus those that are the result of favorable economic conditions or other factors?'' 
 Cendant shareholders will vote on the proposal at the company's annual meeting on April 20 in New York. The company advised shareholders to vote against it. ''The proponent's arbitrary and formalistic pay cap proposal would restrict the compensation committee's role in engaging in the complex analysis necessary to determine appropriate compensation levels,'' the proxy said.
 Daniel J. Steininger, chairman of the Catholic Funds and author of the proposal, said: ''It doesn't take a rocket scientist to understand you create an imbalance in the corporation when you see these kinds of excesses at the top. And why can't Cendant explain why it is the C.E.O. should be getting this extravagant amount of money? Is he another Bill Gates?'' 
 At a news conference this Thursday, Pat Quinn, the lieutenant governor of Illinois, plans to urge all of the state's pension funds to vote in favor of the proposal, he said. ''We want to make sure the companies we are investing in are compensating their leaders in a way that is reasonable and there are some objective standards in determining whether the pay of the C.E.O. is related to the performance of the company,'' Mr. Quinn said. ''We shouldn't stand by the side of the road when we see things that are clearly not in the shareholders' interest.''
 THE compensation committee responsible for Mr. Silverman's pay has been led since 2000 by Mr. Coleman, who was also a director of HFS from April 1997 until December 1997. He is a senior adviser to Major League Baseball. Other members are Robert F. Smith, chairman of American Remanufacturers Inc., a Chicago automobile parts remanufacturer in which he is an investor; and Myra J. Biblowit, president of the Breast Cancer Research Foundation. 
 Along with other Cendant directors, the members of the compensation committee receive $160,000 a year, half in cash and half in Cendant stock, which is put into a deferred compensation plan. The company has also bought a $1 million life insurance policy for each director, as well as a $100,000 term life policy. 
 Mr. Coleman, as chairman of the compensation committee, makes an extra $20,000, while the other members of the committee make $10,000 each, again divided equally between shares and cash. 
 Even as Mr. Silverman prepares to meet his shareholders at the annual meeting, jury selection will be under way in Hartford in the criminal trial of Walter A. Forbes and E. Kirk Shelton, the former chief executive and president at CUC International, a company that acquired HFS Inc. in late 1997. The merged companies became Cendant; the two men are accused of accounting fraud that ultimately cost investors $19 billion.
 Late last year, Mr. Silverman took the stand at another criminal trial. That case involved Monty D. Hundley, a former owner of Days Inn of America and a principal at Tollman-Hundley Hotels, who along with his partner Stanley S. Tollman, a fugitive assumed to be living in London, sold their company to HFS in the early 1990's. Mr. Hundley and three other executives at the company were convicted in February of a $100 million bank fraud. 
 Under the terms of the sale of their hotel company to HFS, the executives were to receive more than one million HFS shares in total, if the hotels did well. At the trial, prosecutors showed that Mr. Hundley and Mr. Tollman had sold more than $100 million worth of HFS stock from 1993 to 1995. 
 AROUND 1994, Mr. Silverman testified, Mr. Tollman offered to share some of those gains with him because the deal had been such a success. Over time, he told the court, he received more than $3.5 million from Mr. Tollman. Mr. Silverman testified that he gave some of this money to Martin L. Edelman, a Cendant director and a lawyer at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker in New York for help he had provided in the arrangement with Tollman-Hundley. The Cendant chief also donated $1 million of it to charity, according to his testimony. In 1994, Mr. Silverman, who was then the chief executive of HFS, earned a salary of $1.4 million. 
 The Cendant spokesman declined to comment on why Mr. Silverman would accept Mr. Tollman's offer to share personally in profits from a deal that was struck by his company, HFS. Mr. Edelman did not return a phone call seeking comment.
 As for Mr. Silverman's more recent compensation, Mr. Foley, the executive pay expert, said of Cendant: ''It's the supersizing that stands out. The quadruple witching, heavy-on-the-gravy impact of big cash compensation plus huge stock options, plus huge life insurance benefits. And this on top of an unusually long, 10-year employment agreement with balance-of-the-term severance rights.''
 Mr. Munger said he thought the never-ending escalation in executive pay was bound to create a backlash. ''By the way, we believe in high pay for superior performance,'' he said. ''But if you let it go just crazy, people find it deeply offensive. It's terribly contrary to the wider civilization to have this stuff go on and on.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry R. Silverman (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
James D. Sinegal (Photo by Bloomberg News)
Peter Jackson (Photo by Getty Images)
David Letterman (Photo by CBS)
Alex Rodriguez (Photo by Getty Images)
Charlize Theron (Photo by Getty Images)
Annika Sorenstam (Photo by Getty Images)
Simon Cowell (Photo by Associated Press)
President Bush (Photo by Doug Mills/ The New York Times)
William H. Rehnquist (Photo by Getty Images)
Alan Greenspan (Photo by Reuters)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Tipping the Scales''On average, the combination of salary, bonus and option grants awarded to Henry R. Silverman over the last five years was about 11 times that of James D. Sinegal.CHIEF EXECUTIVE: Henry SilvermanCOMPANY: CendantSALARY (5-YR. AVG.): $ 3,125,000BONUS (5-YR. AVG.): $ 7,054,000OPTION GRANTS (5-YR. AVG.): $19,158,000MARKET VALUE CHANGE (5 YEARS): -29%OPERATING INCOME CHANGE (5 YEARS): +36%CHIEF EXECUTIVE: James SinegalCOMPANY: Costco WholesaleSALARY (5-YR. AVG.): $ 351,000BONUS (5-YR. AVG.): $ 75,000OPTION GRANTS (5-YR. AVG.): $2,187,000MARKET VALUE CHANGE (5 YEARS): -18%OPERATING INCOME CHANGE (5 YEARS): +28%(Sources by Brian Foley & Company
Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Contrasting Compensation''2003 PAY PACKAGESHenry R. SilvermanCHIEF EXECUTIVECendantSALARY: $ 3,350,000*BONUS: 13,788,000UNEXERCISED OPTION VALUE: 287,194,000REALIZED OPTION GAINS: 37,160,000DEFINED-CONTRIBUTION PLAN: 1,025,000$100 MILLION INSURANCE POLICY PREMIUMS: 4,574,000POST-RETIREMENT CONSULTING PAY PER MONTH, FOR LIFE: 83,000WHAT OUTSIDE DIRECTORS RECEIVE: $160,000 a year, plus $1 million life insurance policy and $100,000 term life policyJames D. SinegalCHIEF EXECUTIVECostco WholesaleSALARY: $ 350,000BONUS: 0UNEXERCISED OPTION VALUE: 14,092,000REALIZED OPTION GAINS: 1,504,000DEFINED-CONTRIBUTION PLAN: N.A.$100 MILLION INSURANCE POLICY PREMIUMS: N.A.POST-RETIREMENT CONSULTING PAY PER MONTH, FOR LIFE: N.A.WHAT OUTSIDE DIRECTORS RECEIVE: $30,000 a year, plus options on 12,000 shares of company stock*Adjusted for $50,000 underpayment in 2002.(Sources by Brian Foley & Company)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Payday for the Famous . . .''Peter Jackson$37 millionFor 12 months ended June 2003, from share of movie profits Director, ''Lord of the Rings''David Letterman$33 millionTalk show hostAlex Rodriguez$21 million2004 salaryThird baseman New York YankeesKatie Couric$13 million''Today'' anchorJames Gandolfini$13 millionActor, ''The Sopranos''Charlize Theron$10 millionSalary for role in ''Aeon Flux,'' which is being filmed this year ActressBill Clinton$9 millionMostly from speaking fees and consultingHeidi Klum$8.2 millionModelAnnika Sorenstam$5.5 millionProfessional golferSimon Cowell$2.3 millionSalary from ''American Idol'' alone
does not include income from music production company ''American Idol'' judgeThe Powerful . . . 2003 SALARIESPresident Bush$400,000William H. Rehnquist$203,000Chief justice of the United StatesAlan Greenspan$175,700Federal Reserve chairmanHillary Rodham Clinton$158,100U.S. senatorEliot Spitzer$151,200New York attorney generalWilliam H. Donaldson$142,500Securities and Exchange Commission chairmanAnd the Everyday2003 MEDIAN SALARIESLawyers$81,100Doctors and surgeons$73,100Computer programmers$55,400Registered nurses$46,700High school teachers$44,500Firefighters$42,400Police officers$39,700Clergy$39,600Electricians$38,900Sales representatives$25,400(Sources by Forbes
Congressional Research Service
Variety
Hollywood Reporter
U.P.I.
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LOBBYING (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (73%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (68%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%); WESCO FINANCIAL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); INVESTOR RESPONSIBILITY RESEARCH CENTER (58%) Costco Wholesale Corp; Cendant Corp

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (68%); BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (68%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (68%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%); NAICS532420 OFFICE MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (54%); NAICS532299 ALL OTHER CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (54%)

PERSON: HENRY R SILVERMAN (90%); JAMES SINEGAL (90%); DAVID LETTERMAN (75%); ANNIKA SORENSTAM (74%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (74%); SIMON COWELL (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); ALAN GREENSPAN (64%) James D Sinegal; Henry R Silverman; Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



111 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 8689 words

HEADLINE: Changing All the Rules

BYLINE: By Bruce Barcott. 
Bruce Barcott is a contributing editor at Outside magazine. This is his first cover article for The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
President Bush doesn't talk about new-source review very often. In fact, he has mentioned it in a speech to the public only once, in remarks he delivered on Sept. 15, 2003, to a cheering crowd of power-plant workers and executives in Monroe, Mich., about 35 miles south of Detroit. It was an ideal audience for his chosen subject. New-source review, or N.S.R., involves an obscure and complex set of environmental rules and regulations that most Americans have never heard of, but to people who work in the power industry, few subjects are more crucial.
 The Monroe plant, which is operated by Detroit Edison, is one of the nation's top polluters. Its coal-fired generators emit more mercury, a toxic chemical, than any other power plant in the state. Until recently, power plants like the one in Monroe were governed by N.S.R. regulations, which required the plant's owners to install new pollution-control devices if they made any significant improvements to the plant. Those regulations now exist in name only; they were effectively eliminated by a series of rule changes that the Bush administration made out of the public eye in 2002 and 2003. What the president was celebrating in Monroe was the effective end of new-source review. 
 ''The old regulations,'' he said, speaking in front of a huge American flag, ''undermined our goals for protecting the environment and growing the economy.'' New-source review just didn't work, he said. It dissuaded power companies from updating old equipment. It kept power plants from operating at full efficiency. ''Now we've issued new rules that will allow utility companies, like this one right here, to make routine repairs and upgrades without enormous costs and endless disputes,'' the president said. ''We simplified the rules. We made them easy to understand. We trust the people in this plant to make the right decisions.'' The audience applauded.
 Of the many environmental changes brought about by the Bush White House, none illustrate the administration's modus operandi better than the overhaul of new-source review. The president has had little success in the past three years at getting his environmental agenda through Congress. His energy bill remains unpassed. His Clear Skies package of clean-air laws is collecting dust on a committee shelf. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge remains closed to oil and gas exploration. 
 But while its legislative initiatives have languished on Capitol Hill, the administration has managed to effect a radical transformation of the nation's environmental laws, quietly and subtly, by means of regulatory changes and bureaucratic directives. Overturning new-source review -- the phrase itself embodies the kind of dull, eye-glazing bureaucrat-speak that distracts attention -- represents the most sweeping change, and among the least noticed. 
 The changes to new-source review have been portrayed by the president and his advisers as a compromise between the twin goals of preserving the environment and enabling business, based on a desire to make environmental regulations more streamlined and effective. But a careful examination of the process that led to the new policy reveals a very different story, and a different motivation. I conducted months of extensive interviews with those involved in the process, including current and former government officials, industry representatives, public health researchers and environmental advocates. (Top environmental officials in the Bush administration declined to comment for this article.) Through those interviews and the review of hundreds of pages of documents and transcripts, one thing has become clear: the administration's real problem with the new-source review program wasn't that it didn't work. The problem was that it was about to work all too well -- in the way, finally, that it was designed to when it was passed by Congress more than 25 years ago.
 Having long flouted the new-source review law, many of the nation's biggest power companies were facing, in the last months of the 1990's, an expensive day of reckoning. E.P.A. investigators had caught them breaking the law. To make amends, the power companies were on the verge of signing agreements to clean up their plants, which would have delivered one of the greatest advances in clean air in the nation's history. Then George W. Bush took office, and everything changed.

II.
 The Clean Air Act, adopted by Congress and signed by President Nixon in 1970, required industrial polluters to clean up their operations. The law forced power plants and large factories to minimize their emissions of harmful pollutants like sulfur dioxide and lead, and it established national air-quality standards to be met by 1975. Congress acknowledged, however, that forcing polluters to retrofit every existing plant immediately would be tremendously costly, potentially crippling entire industries. So in a concession to industry, the lawmakers agreed to apply the tough standards only to newly built facilities.
 Seven years passed, and the national air-quality standards went unmet. Instead of building new, cleaner plants, many companies simply patched and upgraded their old, dirty plants. So Congress updated the act in 1977, introducing a regulation called new-source review to bring older plants into compliance. Under N.S.R., a company could operate an old factory as long as it wasn't substantially modified. Eventually, it was assumed, the company would have to update its equipment, at which point new-source rules required the company to install the best available pollution-control technology. It was a way to let companies phase in the switch to cleaner factories over a number of years instead of all at once. 
 The legislators who passed new-source review expected the law to encourage electric utilities to replace old, heavily polluting coal-fired plants with cleaner new ones. And during the 80's and 90's, some power companies did replace coal plants with cleaner ones that burned natural gas. But many others retooled plants to keep them running long past their expected life spans, and few were fitted with the scrubbers and other equipment required under N.S.R. 
 The electric industry complained that N.S.R. rules were so complicated and confusing that it was impossible for utilities to determine the difference between ''routine'' maintenance, which wouldn't require an upgrade, and a significant ''physical change,'' which would. An examination of documents made public as a result of lawsuits, however, makes it difficult to credit these complaints. Beginning soon after N.S.R. was implemented, E.P.A. officials issued frequent letters and bulletins telling power companies exactly where the agency was drawing the line. And in 1990, after a Wisconsin power company lost a suit against the E.P.A. over N.S.R., Henry Nickel, an attorney representing the Utility Air Regulatory Group, an industry association, complained in a letter to William Reilly, the head of the E.P.A. under the first President Bush, that the court's decision meant that ''any time a component breaks -- even a minor component -- and repair is needed to maintain normal operations,'' new-source standards would ''be triggered unless the work is found to be 'routine' by the E.P.A. staff.'' Nickel seemed to understand clearly what the new-source rules said -- but that didn't mean he and other industry representatives liked them. Nickel said that the rules were bad not only for utilities but also for clean air, because power companies would be discouraged from updating their plants with cleaner, more efficient technology. 
 Officials in the Clinton administration spent years trying to make the N.S.R. program more palatable to industry without sacrificing public health. Carol M. Browner, President Clinton's E.P.A. administrator, floated new ideas like plantwide applicability limits (P.A.L.'s), a program to cap and reduce emissions on a plant-by-plant basis, but chose not to pursue them when it became apparent that they wouldn't reduce pollution faster than the existing new-source regulations. Robert Perciasepe, Browner's assistant administrator for air and radiation, kept the flagging effort alive by bringing together industry officials, state and local clean-air regulators, environmental leaders and public health advocates in an ad-hoc working group that struggled to find a mutually acceptable way to implement N.S.R. regulations. But by the end of 2000, Browner told me, the E.P.A.'s efforts to find a compromise ''were essentially dead.''
 When I spoke to him recently, Perciasepe, now C.E.O. of the National Audubon Society, put the matter bluntly. The reason new-source review did not get streamlined during the Clinton years, he said, was that the energy companies, utilities and other industries had no interest in any sort of workable reforms. ''In hindsight, maybe we were going after a sort of holy grail,'' he told me. ''You were not going to reach agreement with some of these folks,'' he said, referring to industry representatives, ''because what they really wanted was to not have to do it.''
 Oddly, while industry and government haggled fruitlessly over potential rule changes, nobody was making sure that companies were complying with the existing law. Mostly the E.P.A. was leaving them alone. ''There were other things that had to be done first,'' Browner explained. ''We looked at where we could get the biggest bang for the buck in terms of pollution reduction.'' Coal-fired power plants didn't move to the top of the agency's list until late 1996, when Bruce Buckheit, a former Justice Department lawyer who had recently joined the E.P.A. as director of its air-enforcement division, happened to notice an article in The Washington Post about proposed changes to the ownership rules that govern the power industry. ''The story predicted that deregulation would increase the use of coal-fired power generation in the Midwest,'' Buckheit recalled. ''So we thought, If they're going to have all that expansion, they're going to have to pay attention to new-source review rules.'' That led him to wonder, he said, whether utilities had been paying attention to the rules at all. 
 Buckheit and other E.P.A. officials began asking questions. They found disturbing answers. Industry records indicated that many power plants had upgraded their facilities to burn more coal, which required new-source review permits, but ''we started looking around for the permits,'' Buckheit said, ''and there weren't any.'' Many of the nation's biggest energy companies, E.P.A. officials found, had updated their plants without putting in any new pollution controls and were illegally releasing millions of tons of harmful pollutants. ''Companies understood what was going on, and a lot of them thought they could evade the law,'' recalled Sylvia Lowrance, who was the E.P.A.'s top official for enforcement and compliance (and Buckheit's boss) from 1996 to 2002. 
 At the same time, a growing body of medical research indicated that industrial air pollution was making a lot of people sick. Power plants pump dozens of chemicals into the air; among the most harmful are nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury. Nitrogen oxides are major producers of ground-level ozone, or smog, and they interact in the atmosphere with sulfur dioxide, water and oxygen to form acid rain. Mercury, a highly toxic chemical that is emitted as a vapor when coal is burned, has been found to cause brain disorders in developing fetuses and young children, and unhealthy levels of it have recently been detected in swordfish and tuna. 
 The most disturbing research, though, involved fine particulates, the tiny particles of air pollution that spew out of smokestacks and lodge deep within the lungs of people nearby and even miles away. During the late 80's and 90's, medical researchers found that long-term exposure to fine particulates caused asthma attacks in children and raised the risk of chronic bronchitis in adults. Coal-fired plants account for about 60 percent of the nation's sulfur dioxide emissions and 40 percent of the mercury, and power plants as a whole are the nation's second-largest source of nitrogen-oxides pollution, after automobiles. Public health researchers estimate that fine-particulate pollution from power plants shortens the lives of more than 30,000 Americans every year. Pollution-controlling technology, while costly, can make an enormous difference. A new scrubber can cut emissions up to 95 percent. 
 Spurred on by that research, E.P.A. officials mounted a campaign to clean up the illegally polluting coal-fired power plants. E.P.A. agents began to go after suspected Clean Air Act violators through the companies' own accounting books. In any corporation, big capital improvement projects usually leave a trail of documents. Any department in a company that proposes a capital improvement has to justify it to the company's higher-ups, often by way of memos, briefing books, e-mail messages or PowerPoint presentations. In 1997, the E.P.A. started collecting such data, threatening subpoenas if companies didn't comply. ''We got lists of capital projects, then went after the internal justifications for those projects,'' Buckheit said. 
 After two years of investigation, E.P.A. officials had accumulated a daunting amount of evidence of wrongdoing by the coal-burning power industry. ''This was the most significant noncompliance pattern E.P.A. had ever found,'' Sylvia Lowrance said. ''It was the environmental equivalent of the tobacco litigation.'' Records compiled by the utilities themselves showed, according to former E.P.A. officials, that companies industrywide had systematically broken the law. If that was true, E.P.A. officials noted, the agency might have enough legal leverage to force the industry to install up-to-date pollution controls and achieve something truly historic: not merely incremental cuts in emissions but across-the-board reductions of 50 percent or more. ''On sulfur dioxide alone, we expected to get several million tons per year out of the atmosphere,'' Buckheit said. 
 E.P.A. agents are sometimes portrayed as eco-cops, but they function more like overworked and financially strapped prosecutors. Big enforcement actions are rarely carried out in courtrooms; instead, there's a lot of negotiating and plea bargaining involved. From the E.P.A.'s perspective, at least during the Clinton years, the point was not to hammer violators with big fines but to get them to reduce the amount of pollution they were creating. That strategy had proved effective with the oil-refinery industry, which like the utilities had systematically skirted the new-source review law in the 80's and 90's: E.P.A. officials presented their case, and many refinery executives agreed to pay fines and install new pollution-control measures. Once the agreements had been reached, some refinery officials even embraced the changes. Tim Scruggs, the manager of BP's Texas City refinery, the nation's largest, told Octane Week, an industry publication, ''We are a society that can afford a few cents per gallon to achieve cleaner air.''
 Utility officials, however, weren't going to give in so easily. In the summer of 1999, Buckheit and other E.P.A. officials asked executives at the worst-offending power companies to come to the agency's headquarters in Washington. In a series of meetings, E.P.A. officials sat down with representatives from each company, one by one, and laid out their evidence. ''Is there something we're missing?'' Buckheit said he asked them. Later, he gathered all the executives together in one room and reiterated the agency's suspicion that their companies had systematically violated the Clean Air Act. ''Unless we're getting something wrong here,'' Buckheit recalled saying, ''these are violations of the law. Y'all want to step up to the plate?'' No one did. 
 Months passed. Industry executives and lawyers refused to address the E.P.A.'s complaints. Finally, in November 1999, the agency decided to take the polluters to court. The Justice Department, on behalf of the E.P.A., announced lawsuits against seven electric utility companies in the Midwest and South, charging that their power plants had been illegally releasing enormous amounts of pollutants, in some cases for 20 years or more. The companies included FirstEnergy, American Electric Power and Cinergy, all headquartered in Ohio; Southern Indiana Gas and Electric; Illinois Power; Tampa Electric, in Florida; and Alabama Power and Georgia Power, two subsidiaries of the Atlanta-based Southern Company, the biggest power supplier in the Southeast. The E.P.A. also issued a compliance order to the Tennessee Valley Authority (T.V.A.), the nation's largest public power company, charging T.V.A. with similar violations at seven of its coal-fired plants in Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama. In addition, the E.P.A. put a number of other utilities on notice, warning them that the Justice Department would come after them next if they didn't clean up their acts. 
 Taken together, the companies named in the suits emitted more than 2 million tons of sulfur dioxide every year and 660,000 tons of nitrogen oxides. Attorney General Janet Reno announced the suits herself. ''When children can't breathe because of pollution from a utility plant hundreds of miles away,'' she said, ''something must be done.'' 

III.
 From the perspective of the utility industry, the E.P.A. was changing the rules in the middle of the game. Dan Riedinger, spokesman for the Edison Electric Institute, the leading trade association for electric utilities, told me that the lawsuits came as a surprise. ''For years we'd asked the E.P.A. for guidance about how we should meet N.S.R. requirements,'' Riedinger said. ''That guidance never came. Instead, the agency just began suing power plants.'' 
 ''I've heard that argument,'' Eric Schaeffer, a former E.P.A. official, responded in an interview. ''And I've got to say, that's completely hokey. I was in dozens of conversations with company officials and their lawyers, and the idea that we were enforcing regulations they were unaware of -- that simply didn't come up.'' 
 A statement issued by the Southern Company shortly after the lawsuits were announced noted that the utility had cooperated with the E.P.A.'s investigation by providing the agency with more than 120,000 pages of documents. ''Our goal throughout this process has been to cooperate with E.P.A. and find a workable solution to this issue,'' the statement said. 
 The amount of money at stake was enormous. Potential penalties ran to $27,500 per plant for each day it had been in violation. Since many of the violations the utilities were charged with began in the 70's, they faced potential fines of tens of millions of dollars. Cost estimates for fitting power plants with new scrubbers and, in some cases, reconfiguring entire plants to run on cleaner-burning natural gas were estimated in the hundreds of millions of dollars. The cost of installing new equipment was, of course, the reason the companies had, according to the E.P.A., skirted the new-source review rules in the first place. (Still, the companies were not about to be put out of business by complying with E.P.A. regulations. In 1999, the Southern Company reported profits of $1.3 billion.) 
 The utility industry immediately turned to the Republican-controlled Congress for relief from the lawsuits. A few days after the suits were announced, power companies and industry trade groups asked sympathetic House members to attach a rider to an appropriations bill. The rider would allow companies to perform ''routine maintenance'' while the lawsuits were pending. In the opinion of the rider's opponents, it would let power companies perform more illegal retooling while the industry's lawyers delayed the E.P.A.'s lawsuit in court. But Representative C.W. Bill Young, a Tampa-area Republican, unexpectedly turned a deaf ear to the overtures of his local utility company, Tampa Electric, and refused to put the rider on the bill. As chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Young had fought to keep House members from sneaking special-interest riders onto spending bills. He stood on principle, and the rider died.
 Faced with Congressional rejection and mounting fines, some utilities struck bargains with the federal government. Tampa Electric, unable to make any headway with Young, agreed in February 2000 to spend more than $1 billion on new pollution controls and pay a $3.5 million civil penalty. The agreement took 123,000 annual tons of pollution out of the sky, and the civil penalty amounted to a little less than 2 percent of Tampa Electric's profits from 1999. Officials at some other utilities followed Tampa Electric to the negotiating table. 
 But others took an alternate route: they started writing checks to George W. Bush's presidential campaign fund. The Bush campaign had a special title for contributors who raised at least $100,000: Pioneers. Among the more than 200 Pioneers during the 2000 Bush election campaign were FirstEnergy's president, Anthony Alexander; Reliant Resources' C.E.O., Steve Letbetter; and Reliant's chairman, Don Jordan. (MidAmerican Energy's C.E.O., David Sokol, has joined the elite rank for the 2004 re-election campaign; Southern Company's executive vice president Dwight Evans has been named a Ranger, meaning he has raised more than $200,000.) Each of these executives' companies was either in litigation or was soon to be under investigation for new-source review violations. Six other Pioneers were lawyers or lobbyists for companies charged with N.S.R. violations. 
 Even in the early stages of Bush's 2000 run, energy executives understood what strong support of a winning candidate could mean. Thomas R. Kuhn, a Yale classmate of President Bush's and president of the Edison Electric Institute, was a 2000 Pioneer and is a Pioneer for the 2004 campaign as well. On May 27, 1999, Kuhn sent energy-industry executives a confidential memo, later made public in the course of a lawsuit, advising them to bundle their contributions to the Bush campaign under a tracking number to ''ensure that our industry is credited'' for its generosity. 
 After Bush eventually emerged as the winner of the 2000 election, industry leaders were upbeat about the prospect of the coming four years. The president and the vice president, Dick Cheney, were, after all, oilmen. The coal-industry trade magazine Coal Age exulted in the industry's ''high-level access to policymakers in the new administration.'' Soon after Bush's inauguration, the electric utilities sought relief from the E.P.A. and its new-source review program. The problem was that most voters -- including Republican voters -- opposed rollbacks. A Gallup poll in 2001 found that 81 percent of Americans supported stronger environmental standards for industry. According to another 2001 poll, only 11 percent thought the government was doing ''too much'' to protect the environment. 
 Previous Republican leaders tried to enact a pro-industry environmental agenda and met with only limited success. In 1981, President Reagan took office promising that in his administration the E.P.A. would have ''leaders who know and care about the coal industry.'' He appointed as head of the E.P.A. Anne Gorsuch, an attorney who had fought the E.P.A.'s enforcement of clean-air laws, and he named James Watt, a staunch defender of private enterprise against environmental regulation, as secretary of the interior. Watt pushed to open up potential federal wilderness lands to developers. Gorsuch took office under instructions from the White House to make the E.P.A. more friendly to industry. Within two years, they had become provocative symbols of anti-environmentalism and were forced to resign in separate scandals. Similarly, in 1994, Newt Gingrich and his House Republicans rode into power determined to weaken the Clean Water Act and the E.P.A.'s Superfund program. Their bold frontal attacks galvanized environmental activists and the Clinton administration, and Congress was persuaded to leave the laws alone. 
 The Bush administration seemed determined not to repeat those political mistakes. Taking a lesson from Reagan's experience with Gorsuch and Watt, Bush officials realized that it would be self-defeating to appoint to public positions people with outspoken views on the environment, so they found noncombative figures instead. They named as head of the E.P.A. Christie Whitman, who was seen as a moderate when she was appointed, in part because she had participated in a clean-air lawsuit against a power company as governor of New Jersey. Learning from the Gingrich defeat, administration officials recognized that bills that overtly attacked environmental protections stood little chance of surviving in Congress. So they adopted a two-track strategy. Publicly, the president asked Congress to pass major environmental legislation like the Clear Skies Initiative and a sweeping energy bill, which he knew would face considerable opposition. Privately, the president's political appointees at the Department of the Interior, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Agriculture and Office of Management and Budget would carry out those same policies less visibly, through closed-door legal settlements and obscure rule changes.
 One key element of the strategy was putting the right people in under-the-radar positions. The Bush administration appointed officials who came directly from industry into these lower rungs of power -- deputy secretaries and assistant administrators. These second-tier appointees knew exactly which rules and regulations to change because they had been trying to change them, on behalf of their industries, for years. One appointee was Jeffrey Holmstead, a lawyer and lobbyist for groups like the Alliance for Constructive Air Policy, an electric utility trade group that sought to weaken the Clean Air Act. Holmstead stepped into the role of assistant E.P.A. administrator for air and radiation, where he would oversee changes to new-source review.

IV.
 In the past, industry succeeded in blocking environmental reforms by arguing that they would mean lost jobs. But the jobs-versus-the-environment defense became less convincing during the economic expansion of the 90's, which took place under the relatively tough environmental restrictions of the Clinton administration. The Bush administration needed a different engine of necessity to propel environmental rollbacks like the scuttling of new-source review. It found one in the Cheney energy task force.
 Nine days after his swearing in, President Bush created the National Energy Policy Development Group, a task force headed by Vice President Dick Cheney and charged with developing a national energy policy. The timing of Bush's ascendance to the presidency could not have been better for the energy industry. When Bush came to office, the nation was riveted by a bizarre energy crisis unfolding in California. We now know that California's energy shock was largely caused by market manipulation (by Enron, among other companies) and regulatory breakdown, not by a drought in supply. But we didn't know it then. A few days after he created the energy task force, President Bush went on CNN and blamed environmentalists for the crisis. ''If there's any environmental regulation that's preventing California from having 100 percent max output at their plants -- as I understand there may be -- then we need to relax those regulations,'' he said. California utility officials denied that environmental rules had anything to do with the crisis. But their protests didn't matter. The president had forged the link. 
 Cheney's energy task force solicited suggestions from various quarters, but few outside a tight circle of industry insiders were able to make themselves heard. Although the vice president continues to fight a lawsuit -- now before the Supreme Court -- that would require him to divulge the names of industry executives consulted by his task force, documents released in the course of the legal battle reveal the tenor of the exchanges. 
 On March 18, 2001, Joseph Kelliher, a top assistant to Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, e-mailed Dana Contratto, an energy-industry lobbyist. ''If you were King, or Il Duce,'' Kelliher wrote, ''what would you include in a national energy policy . . . ?'' Apparently that was one of many e-mail messages to industry lobbyists, for Kelliher's electronic mailbox was soon pinging with activity. A March 20, 2001, message from Jim Ford, lobbyist for the American Petroleum Institute, a powerful oil-and-gas-industry trade group, included a ready-made decree. ''The last document,'' Ford wrote, referring to one of 10 attachments, ''is a suggested executive order to ensure that energy implications are considered and acted on in rulemakings and other executive actions.'' President Bush would issue a very similar executive order two months later, the day after the energy task force report was released. 
 Another Kelliher correspondent, Stephen Sayle, a Republican Congressional aide, who is now an energy lobbyist, added a somewhat abashed note to the end of his March 23, 2001, wish list, which included a plea to stop enforcement of new-source review. ''Obviously, this is a dream list,'' he wrote. ''Not all will be done. But perhaps some of these ideas could be floated and adopted.'' In fact, Sayle was being needlessly pessimistic; most of the items on his list, many of which dealt with new-source review, were eventually adopted. 
 Many more wish lists arrived at the Energy Department, and many of them led with the same idea: gutting new-source review. In case the administration didn't get the message, a consortium of energy companies hired Haley Barbour, former chairman of the Republican National Committee, to press their cause in a face-to-face meeting with Vice President Cheney. According to a recent article by Christopher Drew and Richard A. Oppel Jr. in The New York Times, Barbour was accompanied in that meeting by Bush's friend Marc Racicot, who is now chairman of the president's re-election campaign. 
 Over at E.P.A., Whitman and other top officials tried to resist the policy changes coming out of the Energy Department. When a draft of the National Energy Policy circulated in late April 2001, Tom Gibson, an associate E.P.A. administrator appointed under President Bush, sent a memo to the task force director arguing that one of the president's, and the policy's, fundamental assumptions -- that environmental regulations had hamstrung American domestic energy production -- was flat wrong. ''Costs of compliance with environmental regulations are overstated, several inaccurate statements and opinions are presented as factual and no citations are provided for many of these statements,'' Gibson wrote. He and other E.P.A. officials, he continued, ''are very concerned that this language is inaccurate and inappropriately implicates environmental programs as a major cause of supply constraints. . . . Such a conclusion, in our opinion, is overly simplistic and not supported by the facts.'' 
 Whitman, who was a member of Cheney's task force, often found herself and Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill acting as the panel's only defenders of environmental protections. In Ron Suskind's recent book ''The Price of Loyalty,'' O'Neill recalls Whitman saying after one meeting: ''This is a slaughter. It's 10 on 2, not counting White House people and all the advisers to the group from the various industries.'' (Whitman, who is co-chairman of President Bush's re-election campaign in New Jersey, declined to comment for this article. According to her spokesman, she has criticized O'Neill's book as inaccurate in many of its details.) 
 Whitman was in an especially tough position with respect to new-source review. Thirteen months before she was named to the Bush cabinet, when she was governor of New Jersey, Whitman joined a lawsuit to force Ohio-based American Electric Power to clean up its coal-fired plants, and now that she was head of the E.P.A., American Electric was one of the seven utilities the agency was suing for new-source review violations. In the spring of 2001, as the energy task force was completing its work and preparing its report, Whitman understood that new-source review faced effective elimination under industry pressure, and she worried about the environmental and political implications of such a move. In May 2001, less than two weeks before the final energy report was released, Whitman sent a memo to Cheney. ''As we discussed, the real issue for industry is the enforcement cases,'' she wrote. ''We will pay a terrible political price if we undercut or walk away from the enforcement cases; it will be hard to refute the charge that we are deciding not to enforce the Clean Air Act.'' 
 President Bush's final National Energy Policy (N.E.P.) was published on May 16, 2001. In its 170 well-designed, color-illustrated pages lay the administration's vision of the environmental future of the United States. The policy's defining notion was simple: environmental regulations have constrained America's domestic energy supply. In broad strokes, the N.E.P. laid out the next three years of the Bush administration's energy and environmental agenda: roll back wilderness and wildlife protections to open up more public land to oil and gas development; establish fast-track hydropower permits; expand offshore oil and gas drilling; and replace tough Clean Air Act rules, including new-source review, with an industry-friendly market-based pollution trading system. These weren't items on a wish list. They were marching orders. Among the first to be carried out was the mandate to overhaul new-source review. 
 To that end, the White House directed the Justice Department to review its cases against the Southern Company, American Electric and others to see if any of the suits might be dropped outright. According to a senior E.P.A. adviser supportive of the administration's policies, who spoke on condition of anonymity, ''The administration believed some of those cases were brought'' -- by the Clinton Justice Department -- ''without regard to whether they were really egregious violations of the Clean Air Act worthy of enforcement.'' Certain lawsuits, he said, ''were regarded as more punitive than designed to achieve environmental goals.'' 
 During the same period, Bush appointees at the E.P.A. disbanded Robert Perciasepe's N.S.R. working group and, led by Jeffrey Holmstead, the former industry lobbyist who had become an assistant administrator at the E.P.A., started to rewrite the rules. Publicly, the president ordered the agency to conduct a 90-day review of its new-source rules, and officials dutifully sat through four public hearings during the summer of 2001 and took note of the hundreds of comments regarding the policy. Privately, though, the E.P.A. and the Energy Department were already moving to undo new-source review. At a Senate hearing that July, Whitman outlined a plan to replace the E.P.A.'s toughest clean-air programs with a more flexible, industry-friendly regimen. ''New-source review is certainly one of those regulatory aspects that would no longer be necessary,'' she said. 
 The Energy Department took an unusually active role in drawing up the proposed new-source review changes. In November 2001, D.O.E. officials circulated their proposed changes among the E.P.A. staff for feedback. Officials at the E.P.A.'s air-enforcement division were appalled. ''The current draft report is highly biased and loaded with emotionally charged code words,'' E.P.A. officials wrote in an internal memo. ''It is drafted as a prelude to recommendations to vitiate the N.S.R. program.'' The agency's memo noted that the report ''contains only comments by industry and ignores the comments of all other stakeholders.'' 
 In January 2002, the White House suffered a setback. The Justice Department delivered its report on the legality of the E.P.A.'s lawsuit against the Southern Company and other N.S.R. violators. The department found that contrary to the administration's hopes, all of the lawsuits were legal and warranted. In fact, Justice's lawyers said they intended to prosecute the cases ''vigorously.'' 
 Shortly thereafter, White House officials decided it was time to try the Congressional track. On Feb. 14, 2002, President Bush unveiled his Clear Skies Initiative. The president declared that his proposed legislation ''sets tough new standards to dramatically reduce the three most significant forms of pollution from power plants -- sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury.''
 It was true that the new standards, if enforced, would reduce emissions from their current rate -- but the president's formulation was somewhat misleading. Clear Skies was to replace Clean Air Act regulations with a cap-and-trade market system. On its face, that was not an unreasonable proposition. Many Republicans and some moderate Democrats embrace the general concept of cap-and-trade, in which Washington sets pollution standards for the entire country (the ''cap'') and then allows companies that manage to reduce their emissions below the standard to sell their extra pollution ''allowance'' to companies that haven't met the standard (the ''trade''). The key to cap-and-trade lies in the standard -- how low it is set and how quickly it shrinks. And when President Bush announced Clear Skies, the E.P.A. was already on track to require deeper reductions in air pollution than his cap-and-trade proposal would produce. So the air would actually be dirtier under Clear Skies than if the president allowed the E.P.A. to enforce the existing law. Clear Skies allowed 50 percent more sulfur dioxide, nearly 40 percent more nitrogen oxides and three times as much mercury as the Clean Air Act -- rigorously enforced -- called for. 
 Because of this discrepancy, the legislation was not greeted with much enthusiasm in Congress. Clear Skies wasn't helped by the fact that a former top E.P.A. official went on ABC's ''This Week'' to denounce the proposal two weeks after it was introduced. ''We can do better under current law than what they're putting on the table,'' Eric Schaeffer told George Stephanopoulos. Schaeffer, the E.P.A.'s head of civil enforcement from 1997 to 2002, had worked on the new-source review lawsuits since their inception. He left the E.P.A. in early 2002, tired, as he said in his letter of resignation, of ''fighting a White House that seems determined to weaken the rules we are trying to enforce.'' 
 Schaeffer's frustration stemmed from the collapse of talks that had been leading, in his estimation, to the elimination of more than four million tons of air pollution annually. Officials at the power companies named in the new-source review lawsuits, who had been negotiating with E.P.A. officials, were well aware that White House appointees were drafting new rules that would all but scuttle N.S.R., and they lost their incentive to cut deals. Beginning in 2001, soon after Bush took office, negotiations began to break down. ''We were 80 percent of the way done with seven or eight companies, and one by one they just walked away,'' said Bruce Buckheit, who conducted many of the negotiations himself. Even done deals fell apart. In late 2000, E.P.A. officials reached an agreement in principle with Cinergy that was designed to cut nearly 500,000 tons of the company's annual emissions. By 2002, Cinergy had backed out. 
 Christie Whitman did little to help the negotiations. In her testimony before the Senate Committee on Government Affairs in March 2002, she described new-source review as ''a program that needs to be fixed,'' but assured the committee that the E.P.A. would not eviscerate the program. Later in her testimony, though, Whitman offered unsolicited advice to the companies her agency was suing for N.S.R. violations. At the time, the Tennessee Valley Authority, which had refused to settle with the Justice Department, had gone to court to challenge the E.P.A. over new-source review. ''If I were a plaintiff's attorney,'' Whitman said, ''I would not settle anything until I knew what happened'' with the T.V.A. case. The message to the power industry, critics charged, was clear: don't settle the cases; change is coming.

V.
 Meanwhile, Bush appointees at the E.P.A. and the Energy Department continued to undo the longstanding N.S.R. rules. There was one technical question that was very important to both sides: where would the line be drawn between ''routine maintenance'' of plants, meaning changes that did not trigger N.S.R. pollution upgrades, and significant overhauls that did. In the spring of 2002, Jeffrey Holmstead, the E.P.A.'s assistant administrator, asked Sylvia Lowrance, the E.P.A.'s deputy assistant administrator for enforcement, to suggest a financial threshold -- a percentage of the total value of each generator that a utility would be permitted to spend on renovations and still define them as routine. Lowrance, a 24-year veteran of the agency, had officials in her office study years of data, looking at figures that came from actual power plants, and on June 3, 2002, she wrote a memo to Holmstead indicating that her office thought 0.75 percent was a reasonable figure. (The memo was later released to reporters by a former E.P.A. official critical of the administration's policies.) In other words, if the total value of a generating unit was $1 billion, a power company should be able to legitimately spend up to $7.5 million a year on routine repair and maintenance without being required to install new pollution controls.
 In a separate memo, Lowrance, Buckheit and Schaeffer warned Holmstead that the proposed changes in new-source review could seriously undermine the E.P.A.'s lawsuits against N.S.R. violators. There were several proposed changes, they wrote, ''that, if included in the final version of the recommendations, could undercut ongoing enforcement activities, including efforts to reach environmentally beneficial settlements.'' Holmstead does not appear to have worried much about the warning from his colleagues. A few weeks later, on July 16, 2002, he went before Congress and testified that officials at the E.P.A. ''do not believe these changes'' -- to new-source review -- ''will have a negative impact on the enforcement cases.'' 
 Holmstead did not seem to believe in the very notion of new-source review. Speaking at an energy-industry conference in Washington in September 2002, Holmstead noted that N.S.R. had spawned thousands of pages of guidance documents, and, he said, ''we can't even say we've gotten any emissions reductions from existing sources.'' The E.P.A.'s own documents, however, show that from 1997 to 1999 alone, the program reduced emissions nationwide by a total of more than four million tons. Holmstead's statement also ignored the fact that the main reason the new-source review law hadn't brought greater across-the-board pollution reductions was that many power companies had systematically violated it for 20 years. (Holmstead declined to be interviewed for this article.)
 Through the spring and into the summer of 2002, President Bush's Clear Skies Initiative was stalled in Congress. The bill's principal sponsor, Representative Joe Barton, a Texas Republican, formally introduced it on the last Friday in July 2002, just before the House adjourned for summer vacation. That fall, an internal E.P.A. analysis, later leaked to the media, found that a rival bill sponsored by Senator Tom Carper, a Democrat from Delaware, would reduce more emissions, on an earlier schedule and at a comparable cost to consumers, than the president's Clear Skies plan. If the Bush administration was going to bring about changes, it was becoming clear that they would have to be done administratively.
 The E.P.A. revealed its overhaul of new-source review on Friday, Nov. 22, 2002. For all the buildup, it was a conspicuously low-key debut. President Bush issued no statement about the new guidelines. Christie Whitman declined to attend the news conference, which was run by Jeffrey Holmstead. Cameras were not allowed at the event, which seemed timed to hit the weekly news cycle at its Friday night nadir. 
 ''There will be emissions reductions as a result of the final rules that we are adopting today,'' Holmstead said. The new rules gave utilities much more maneuverability under N.S.R. The E.P.A. adopted Carol Browner's old ''micro-cap'' idea -- but abandoned its critical component, the gradual tightening of the cap. Utilities that installed new pollution-control equipment were given 10-year exemptions from further upgrades. An official with the National Association of Manufacturers called the new rules ''a refreshingly flexible approach to regulation.'' The usually staid American Lung Association, in a report issued with a coalition of environmental groups, called the rule changes ''the most harmful and unlawful air-pollution initiative ever undertaken by the federal government.'' 

VI.
 Bush's E.P.A. appointees left one crucial detail out of the final report. They said they were still working on a final revision of N.S.R. having to do with the often contested definition of ''routine maintenance.'' The agency published its proposed rule in the Federal Register but left the crucial percentage -- the one Sylvia Lowrance and the E.P.A.'s enforcement office had suggested setting at 0.75 percent -- unspecified. 
 In early 2003 -- before that important percentage was arrived at -- the Bush changes were being challenged. The attorneys general of nine states filed suit to stop the new rules from taking effect. Attorney General Eliot Spitzer of New York and his colleagues, almost all of whom were from states in the Northeast, charged that the changes were so sweeping and damaging that the E.P.A. could not make them without Congressional approval. The lawsuit argued, in effect, that the Bush administration's entire administrative approach to undoing new-source review was against the law. Administration officials brushed off the suit as a political maneuver, noting that most of the attorneys general were Democrats. 
 On Aug. 27, 2003, two days before Labor Day weekend, the other N.S.R. shoe dropped. By then, Whitman was gone, having announced her resignation in May. She said she was tired of making the New Jersey-to-Washington commute and wanted to spend more time with her husband. ''I'm not leaving because of clashes with the White House,'' she said in a television interview. ''In fact, I haven't had any.'' A number of career E.P.A. officials told me they suspected that she'd had enough of the White House's dictating policies with which she disagreed, but, if true, Whitman never let on. 
 So it was Marianne Horinko, acting E.P.A. administrator, who announced in August that the agency had finalized its rule on routine maintenance. The new formula would not adopt Lowrance's suggested threshold of 0.75 percent. Instead, Horinko said, utilities would be allowed to spend up to 20 percent of a generating unit's replacement cost, per year, without tripping the N.S.R. threshold. 
 In other words, a company that operated a coal-fired power plant could do just about anything it wanted to a $1 billion generating unit as long as the company didn't spend more than $200 million a year on the unit. To E.P.A. officials who had worked on N.S.R. enforcement, who had pored over documents and knew what it cost to repair a generator, the new threshold was absurd. ''What I don't understand is why they were so greedy,'' said Eric Schaeffer, the former E.P.A. official. ''Five percent would have been too high, but 20? I don't think the industry expected that in its wildest dreams.'' 
 The framework of new-source review would remain, but the new rules set thresholds so high that pollution-control requirements would almost never come into effect. ''It's a moron test for power companies,'' said Frank O'Donnell, executive director of the Clean Air Trust, a nonprofit watchdog group. ''It's such a huge loophole that only a moron would trip over it and become subject to N.S.R. requirements.'' 
 The report from the American Lung Association and various environmental groups estimated that compared with enforcement of the old N.S.R. rules, the new rules would result in emissions increases of 7 million tons of sulfur dioxide and 2.4 million tons of nitrogen oxides per year by 2020. Had the new rules been in effect before 1999, the lawsuits that the Justice Department filed against the power companies would have been impossible: nearly every illegal action the power companies were accused of back then would have been legal under the new rules. 
 The announcement of the 20 percent limit had a devastating effect on the E.P.A.'s enforcement division. ''Under the new rules,'' Buckheit said, ''almost everything we worked to achieve is wiped out.'' Two months after Horinko's announcement, in November 2003, J.P. Suarez, the Bush-appointed E.P.A. assistant administrator for enforcement, informed staff members that the agency would newly ''evaluate,'' and perhaps choose not to pursue, existing N.S.R. investigations, except those cases that the Justice Department had already taken to federal court. Investigations into 70 companies suspected of violations of the Clean Air Act were abandoned.
 On Christmas Eve, 2003, two days before the new-source review rules were to take effect, a federal appeals court halted their implementation. The court ruled that the new regulations could not go into effect until the lawsuit brought by Eliot Spitzer and 14 other attorneys general (6 more had joined the suit since its inception) was heard. The ruling meant that the new rules would be delayed for at least a year and signaled the beginning of what could be a years-long legal battle. 
 By the end of 2003, with new-source review all but dead, the White House began moving on to other projects. Mike Leavitt, the newly installed E.P.A. administrator, proposed two new regulations. The first suggested new standards for mercury emissions that would in the short term permit the release of as much as seven times as much mercury as current law allows. The second, known as the interstate air-quality rule, set new national caps on sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, and was seen by many as the administrative enactment of Bush's Clear Skies Initiative. Supporters of the administration contend that the interstate air-quality rule will accomplish all the goals of new-source review in a more efficient and comprehensive way. ''All the arguments about N.S.R. and the ability to control pollution from power plants are made moot'' by the new rule, according to the senior E.P.A. adviser who is a supporter of the administration's policies and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
 Yet the new rule set higher national limits for emissions of dangerous chemicals like sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides than Clear Skies, which in turn was considered by critics to be weaker than the existing Clean Air Act. Around that time, some longtime E.P.A. officials decided they'd had enough. Bruce Buckheit and Rich Biondi, Buckheit's deputy, took retirement buyouts and left the agency. Buckheit and Biondi said they could no longer carry out their jobs effectively, given the Bush administration's attitude toward the Clean Air Act. 
 The White House's reversal of clean-air gains was especially disturbing to Biondi, who joined the agency in 1971, six months after its inception under President Nixon. The rule changes and the abandonment of the new-source review investigations ''excuse decades of violations,'' he said. ''We worked 30 years to develop a clean-air program that is finally achieving our goals. It was frustrating to see some of our significant advances taken away. I left because I wanted to make a difference, and it became clear that that was going to be difficult at the E.P.A.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Power plants are the second-largest source of nitrogen-oxides pollution, after cars.
 Scrubbers, as required by new-source review, can cut smokestack emissions up to 95 percent. (Photographs by Mitch Epstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); WILDLIFE (77%); AIR QUALITY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); NITROGEN OXIDES (69%); LEGISLATION (65%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (64%); OIL EXPLORATION (50%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%) Air Pollution; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Law and Legislation; Electric Light and Power; Sulfur Dioxide; Nitrogen Oxide; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Air Pollution; Air Pollution

COMPANY: DETROIT EDISON CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%) Environmental Protection Agency; Energy Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Bruce Barcott; George W (Pres) Bush; Jeffrey (Asst Admr) Holmstead; Rich Biondi; Bruce Buckheit

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (66%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2004



112 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1635 words

HEADLINE: AIDS FEARS GROW FOR BLACK WOMEN

BYLINE: By LINDA VILLAROSA

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Once a week, the five friends, all members of the Abundant Life Cathedral here, get together to eat sushi, sip wine and talk. But one recent afternoon, the women chose a different activity: They went to see ''Not a Day Goes By,'' a musical about black men on the ''down low'' who, while not calling themselves gay or bisexual, have sex with other men, often behind the backs of their wives and girlfriends.
 To these women, it was a subject of increasing urgency.
 ''Once I found out how prevalent the down low was in our community, I was very afraid,'' said one of the women, Tracy Scott, a 37-year-old government relations consultant.
 Her friend Misha King, 35, said she needed to get as much information as she could, as quickly as she could. 
 ''I've been on field trips to the gay bars and have seen guys that look like men you would date,'' Ms. King said. ''I treat every man as a bisexual because I don't want to end up as the sister with H.I.V.''
 In the past, concern about black women and AIDS was mainly focused on those who had used drugs or had had sex with users. But increasingly, women like Ms. Scott and her friends have begun to worry, too.
 In government studies of 29 states, a black woman was 23 times more likely to be infected with AIDS than was a white woman, and black women accounted for 71.8 percent of new H.I.V. cases in women from 1999 to 2002. Though new cases of H.I.V. among black women have been stable in the past few years, the number of those who have been infected through heterosexual sex has risen.
 In 2001, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit group focusing on health issues, an estimated 67 percent of black women with AIDS contracted the virus through heterosexual sex, compared with 58 percent four years earlier. Black women accounted for half of all H.I.V. infections acquired through heterosexual sex, in men or women, from 1999 to 2002, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.
 Though heterosexual transmission has risen for all women, researchers say a black woman has a greater chance of coming into contact with the virus when she has sex with another black person because, compared with the general population, there is a higher rate of H.I.V. among black Americans.
 Recent studies suggest that 30 percent of all black bisexual men may be infected with H.I.V., and up to 90 percent of those men do not know they are infected. Researchers for the Centers for Disease Control have referred to these men as a ''bridge'' to infection from gay men to heterosexual women.
 In February, health officials identified a fast-spreading outbreak of infections among 84 men, primarily black students at 37 colleges in North Carolina. The majority were infected through sex with other men, but a third reported that they had had sex with men and women.
 ''What we learned from the research we did with college men here is the potential for H.I.V. to enter the mainstream population of the black community,'' said Dr. Peter Leone, medical director of the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services H.I.V. prevention unit and a co-author of a study of the 84 men. 
 ''This is a big change and may be a defining moment,'' Dr. Leone added. ''I don't mean to sound like Chicken Little, but if we don't react to this very quickly and aggressively, it'll be like the 80's all over again. Instead of gay white men, though, we'll be dealing with large numbers of young black men and their female partners.''
 The fear of H.I.V. among blacks is not new, and the down low has been part of the black lexicon at least since the mid-1990's, when E. Lynn Harris's novels about bisexual black men who lead double lives first appeared on best-seller lists. 
 AIDS prevention efforts have generally focused on drug users and men who have sex with men. But the North Carolina findings made it clear that H.I.V. had the potential to spread to a wider circle of blacks. In particular, the new research has alarmed black women. Now in online chat rooms, at book clubs, on radio call-in shows and in whispered conversations with friends, many are trying to piece together information to figure out if men, whether one-night stands or their husbands, may have secret lives putting them at risk.
 ''H.I.V./AIDS is a disease of opportunity, not socioeconomics,'' said Phill Wilson, executive director of the Black AIDS Institute in Los Angeles. ''The research out of North Carolina reveals that among black folks, no matter who you are or who you think you are, you are not safe from H.I.V.''
 Dr. Robert S. Janssen, director of the Centers for Disease Control's divisions of H.I.V./AIDS prevention, warned that evidence was lacking about what was driving infection in black women.
 ''Yes, the risk of contracting H.I.V. is highest in the African-American community and there's no question black women are at higher risk compared to other women, but there's still a lot we don't understand,'' Dr. Janssen said.
 ''However, we are concerned enough to tell women of all socioeconomic groups to ask their partners about their sero status and if they are having sex with men,'' he said, referring to H.I.V. status.
 A tangle of factors heightens the risk for black women.
 No one knows for sure how much the spread of the AIDS virus among blacks can be attributed to the behavior of bisexual men. Some reports have suggested that black men are more likely to keep their bisexuality a secret for a variety of reasons, but that, too, is hard to quantify.
 Still, researchers say it comes down to a numbers game: blacks make up roughly 12 percent of the nation's population but in 2002 accounted for 42 percent of people living with AIDS and more than half of all new infections. Blacks tend to have sexual relations with other blacks, experts say, which works to confine the virus within the African-American ''sexual network.''
 ''A high prevalence of infection in the pool of potential partners can spread sexually transmitted infections rapidly within the ethnic group and keep it there,'' said Dr. Adaora A. Adimora, an infectious disease physician and associate professor at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine in Chapel Hill.
 She and others cite several other factors. Perhaps the most vexing may be the shortage of black men as potential partners. This gender gap, experts say, may lead black women to make unsafe sexual decisions and raise their risk of infection.
 ''Large numbers of black men are in prison, or unemployed, or dead, so there is simply a smaller pool of available partners to choose from,'' said Dr. Gail E. Wyatt, a psychiatry professor and an associate director of the University of California, Los Angeles, AIDS Institute. ''So while women are quite concerned about being infected with H.I.V., the threat of death is not enough to persuade black women to protect themselves if it means being alone, childless and with less income.''
 Though women outnumber men in the general population, the gap is wider among blacks. According to 2002 census data, there are 12.6 million black women 21 or older, compared with 9.9 million black men. On college campuses, the numbers are particularly lopsided: in 2000, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, more than one million black women were enrolled in degree-granting institutions, compared with 635,000 black men.
 ''Many of the women on campus are panic-stricken because of the feeling of scarcity,'' said Dr. Beverly Guy-Sheftall, professor of women's studies and English at Spelman College in Atlanta. ''This shortage of desirable partners creates a sense of desperation. I see a lot of problematic sexual decision-making among black women across class and age lines.'' 
 The shortage of available black men can contribute to the spread of H.I.V. in other ways.
 ''Because of the lack of marriageable black men, marriage rates have dropped among African-Americans,'' said Dr. Edward O. Laumann, a professor of sociology at the University of Chicago and an editor of the new book ''The Sexual Organization of the City.'' In 2002, according to the census, 37.7 percent of black men 15 or older were married and living with their spouses, compared with 58.5 percent of white men. Among women 15 or older, 29.2 percent of blacks were married and living with their spouses, compared with 54.3 percent of whites.
 ''When marriage rates are low, there is a higher likelihood of concurrence -- the pattern of having more than one partner at the same time,'' Dr. Laumann said. ''The less educated and the higher educated are more likely to be in these kinds of fragile relationships, which can facilitate the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.''
 Dr. Adimora said the research did not suggest greater promiscuity among blacks. ''No one is saying that black people don't care about long-term, stable relationships,'' she said. ''But the lower number of economically viable black men destabilizes marriage and long-term partnering. One pattern is the man who has sex with one girlfriend, goes back to a previous girlfriend and then returns to the new one. This kind of pattern can increase H.I.V. spread.''
 Vanessa Johnson said she wished she had been more careful a decade ago. She did not learn that her boyfriend and the father of her son was bisexual until he contracted an AIDS-related illness. She learned she had H.I.V. in 1990, right after she graduated from law school.
 ''I understood that there was a possibility he was seeing other people, but I was willing to overlook it,'' said Ms. Johnson, now 46, who is deputy director of the Capital District African American Coalition on AIDS in Albany.
 Ms. Johnson said that she forgave her boyfriend, who died in 1994. 
 ''His infection most likely came from having sex with another man,'' she said, ''but he was afraid to say that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Clockwise from left, Harlesica Wooten, Somayya Scott, Misha King, Deatree Durham and Tracy Scott after seeing ''Not a Day Goes By,'' a musical about black men who keep their bisexuality a secret. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); WOMEN (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (87%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (86%); MEN (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (73%) 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

PERSON: Linda Villarosa

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



113 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Germany's Cable Industry Gets Foreign Investment
Germany's huge cable television industry -- fragmented, financially stressed and firmly regulated -- is getting a jolt from a group of American and British investors.
 Kabel Deutschland, a cable operator owned by Providence Equity Partners, Goldman Sachs and Apax Partners of London, announced that it would acquire three big regional cable systems here for 2.7 billion euros (about $3.3 billion). The deal would reassemble the nationwide cable system originally built by the German state telephone carrier, Deutsche Telekom. [C2.]

Readers Polled on Living Magazine
With its founder and namesake a convicted felon, Martha Stewart Living magazine is contemplating changes, and it wants to know what readers think. Last week, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia circulated a multiple-choice survey to some subscribers by e-mail to gauge their feelings on, among other things, renaming the magazine (to just Living), redesigning the cover, renaming some of the columns that now include Ms. Stewart's name and replacing at least one regular feature. [C8.]

Cars in the Spotlight Again
Detroit, which has long feasted on trucks, says it has rediscovered the car. Will the public buy it? This week, General Motors and the Ford Motor Company will make their case at one of the busier New York International Auto Shows in recent years. [C2.]

Si TV Raises $60 Million
Si TV, a fledgling English-language television channel aimed at Hispanic Americans, is expected to announce that it has raised $60 million from eight investors. [C5.]

Obstacles to E-Procurement
Among large companies, the practice of connecting to suppliers via the Web and automating purchases is rising. But for small- and medium-sized businesses, such investments are often impossible to justify. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C7.]

Narrowing the Field for I.M.F. Post
European finance ministers narrowed their field of candidates to run the International Monetary Fund, and settled on two names: Rodrigo Rato of Spain and Jean Lemierre of France. [C7.]

Help for Internet Address Books
Will ''Plaxo'' become the next ubiquitous Internet verb, like Google? That is the hope of the founders of Plaxo, who include Todd Masonis, left, and Cameron Ring. The company helps computer users keep their address books updated with the latest postal addresses and phone numbers. [C4.]

Agencies Chosen for Casino Work
Two ad agencies have been hired by two Connecticut casinos for creative assignments after closely watched reviews. The changes point up the intensifying competition in the casino category. Advertising. [C10.]

Patents as Economic Indicator
According to several important indicators, the economy could be on the rebound. But a very unofficial indicator -- filings with the Patent and Trademark Office -- suggests that a big bounce will not come soon. Patents. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,470.59 up 257.62Nasdaq composite -- 2,057.17 up 97.1510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.14% up 0.31The euro -- $1.2131 up 0.0008The dollar -- 104.49 yen down 1.41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (94%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); EURO (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); FELONIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); STOCK INDEXES (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%); PATENTS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (58%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (58%); KABEL DEUTSCHLAND GMBH (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (57%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); DTE (FRA) (57%); DTE (BIT) (57%); MSO (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



114 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Offerings Set for The Week

 BODY:
This week's schedule of Treasury auctions includes the sale of new three- and six-month bills today and four-week bills, a 10-year Treasury inflation protected security tomorrow and a five-year note on Wednesday. At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 0.93 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 1.01 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.91 percent. The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT
TOMORROW
 Henry County Hospital Authority, Ga., $60 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Mecklenburg County, N.C., $150 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 New Jersey Education Facilities Authority, $76.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
WEDNESDAY
 Frederick County, Md., $125.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 South Carolina, $60 million of debt securities. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Birmingham, Ala., Water and Sewer, $67 million of debt securities. Raymond James and Associates.
 Department of Water and Power of Los Angeles, $50 million of revenue bonds. E.J. De La Rosa and Company.
 Harris County, Tex., Toll Road, $467 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Maryland Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $89.5 million of revenue bonds. Legg Mason Wood Walker.
 Palm Beach County, Fla., school board, $97 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Public Works of the State of California, $505 million of revenue bonds. First Albany Capital.
 Puerto Rico Highway and Transportation, $600 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (70%); HOSPITALS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (55%); LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (53%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



115 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Organized Militia Uprising In Iraq Kills 7 U.S. Soldiers
A coordinated uprising against the American-led occupation rippled across Iraq. Seven American soldiers were killed in Sadr City, one of the worst losses for the American forces in any firefight since Baghdad was captured a year ago. The thousands of militiamen are loyal to Moktada al-Sadr, a 31-year-old Shiite cleric. A1

Moktada al-Sadr, a radical Shiite cleric, has been spewing invective and threatening a widespread insurrection for months, while American occupation authorities have been focused on a more moderate Shiite leader, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani. A1

L. Paul Bremer III, the civilian administrator in Iraq, is scheduled to hold a closed-door briefing on Capitol Hill, and two senior senators warn that the June 30 date for transferring sovereignity to the Iraqis may be premature. A8

Renewed Seal Hunt in Canada
Canada's seal hunt, by far the world's largest and commercially most valuable, has undergone a gradual revival over the last six years that has virtually escaped world attention. This year, the government will allow the killing of up to 350,000 baby harp seals. A1

Top Suspect Among Dead
Forensic experts in Madrid have identified one of at least four bodies of the men who blew themselves up during a police raid of an apartment as the man suspected of masterminding the March 11 train bombings. Another suspect was also identified among the dead. A3

Basque Arsenal in France
French and Spanish investigators have uncovered in southwestern France what may be ''one of the largest weapons arsenals'' of the Basque separatist group ETA. The police raid also resulted in the arrests of two suspected ETA members. A3

Sri Lankan Parliament Elections
President Chandrika Kumaratunga's alliance won the most seats in Sri Lankan parliamentary elections, but it does not have the clear majority needed to form a government. Despite complaints of irregularities, election officials said that any call for a new election would be rejected. A13

Indonesians Focus on Economy
Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, will vote in parliamentary elections that surveys indicate will turn on the country's widespread dismay with the limping economy rather than on questions about Islam. A6

Peru's Corruption Fight
President Alejandro Toledo's government is carrying out its promise to pursue corrupt officials in what is considered the most far-reaching and aggressive anticorruption investigation in Latin American history, but his own integrity has been tarnished by a string of scandals. A6

NATIONAL A12-19

Stymied by Politicians, Wal-Mart Turns to Voters
Voters will go to the polls in Inglewood, Calif., to decide whether to turn over 60 acres of barren concrete to Wal-Mart, a test of the company's political and marketing muscle. Wal-Mart sponsored the ballot initiative, collecting signatures to put it to voters, after the City Council blocked the proposed development. A14

Preview of Rice Interview
The leaders of the independent commission investigating the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks agreed that evidence gathered by their panel suggested that the attacks could have been prevented. Their remarks offered a preview of the difficult questions likely to confront Condoleezza Rice when she testifies. A16

New Park Name, New Visitors
When Congaree Swamp National Monument dropped the word S-word from its name and upgraded its status from a monument, backpacking and birding hordes bore down on the 22,000-acre flood plain, South Carolina's first national park. Since the new park designation, the monthly visitor count has more than doubled. A14

Foundation Grants Slip
Grants from the nation's almost 65,000 independent, community and corporate foundations in 2003 totaled an estimated $29.7 billion, a 4.7 percent decrease from 2002, says a survey from the Foundation Center. The decrease is a result of the stock market malaise in 2002. A19

Kerry Returns to Campaigning
Senator John Kerry issued a report accusing the Bush administration of fueling the deficit and crippling state budgets by approving or proposing programs costing more than $6 trillion without paying for them. After Mr. Kerry's two-week hiatus, aides said it was the opening round in a weeklong focus on the economy. A18

Editing Ban Is Eased
The federal government has eased a ban on editing manuscripts from nations that are under United States trade embargoes, a move that appears to leave publishers free to edit scholarly works from Iran and other such countries. A15

SCIENCE/HEALTH

The New Face of AIDS
A black woman was 23 times more likely to have AIDS than a white woman, according to government studies of data from 1999 to 2002 from 29 states. Though new cases of H.I.V. among black women have remained stable in the past few years, the number of those who have been infected through heterosexual sex has risen. A1

OBITUARIES B7

John Taras
The internationally known American choreographer and balletmaster, he was 84. B7

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Statue of Liberty Donations Under Investigation by U.S.
Federal investigators have begun an inquiry into the National Park Service's dealings with a nonprofit foundation it relied on to handle the reopening of the Statue of Liberty, according to a government official. They are investigating how the foundation spent donations it raised for projects at the monument and whether it followed federal guidelines on competitive bidding for certain contracts. A1

Palm Sunday Relived
For the second consecutive year, congregants from the cathedrals and storefront churches of the South Bronx gathered to re-enact the events of Palm Sunday. Every detail was faithful to the Biblical text, except a last minute replacement of a mule for Jesus' donkey. B5

Inside the Tyco Jury
Interviews with more than half the members of the jury in the Tyco International trial have helped reconstruct some pivotal moments in their deliberations and shed light on the thought processes of Ruth B. Jordan, Juror No. 4, who said at one point during deliberations that she could not in good conscience vote to convict the two defendants. B1

College Dance Turns Violent
A student was shot and at least six other people were slashed or bludgeoned when a fight escalated into a free-swinging melee at a student center dance on the Madison, N.J., campus of Fairleigh Dickinson University, law-enforcement and school officials said. B1

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Connecticut Women in Final
The University of Connecticut's 67-58 victory over Minnesota put them in the National Colligate Athletic Association's national championship game against Tennessee. Connecticut will be vying for its third straight national championship. D1

The star-free Tennessee Lady Vols scrapped their way to a 52-50 victory over Louisiana State University, whose fans had made the short, hour's drive from Baton Rouge to New Orleans, in the first women's semifinal. Guard Shanna Zolman led Tennessee with 12 points and guard Tasha Butts had 11. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Web Engines Plan To End Gambling Ads
Google and Yahoo, two of the most widely used Web search engines, have decided to stop running advertisements for online casinos, a shift that could thwart the growth of Internet gambling. The move comes as federal prosecutors are threatening action against American companies that do business with Internet casinos that are based abroad. C1

Gauging Effect of File Sharing
While the music industry holds that downloading hurts sales, two economists have released a draft of the first study that makes an economic comparison of directly observed activity on file-sharing networks and music buying that reveals quite the opposite. The study states that downloads have no effect on record sales. C1

Taxation of the Internet
Because of a strange tax glitch, consumers are paying monthly taxes on their high-speed Internet connection depending on whether they use a cable connection or a telephone data line. This odd situation has grabbed attention in the Senate, and it is part of a debate on whether to extend a tax moratorium on Internet services. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: False promises on gas; finding money for better schools; terror in Tashkent; reproductive rights assaulted.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Autos D10
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E8
TV Listings E7
Crossword E6
Weather D12


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); CORRUPTION (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); RELIGION (76%); POLITICS (75%); MARINE MAMMALS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); SCANDALS (68%); FORENSICS (66%); HISTORY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); CANADA (92%); SPAIN (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); PERU (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



116 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: We're More Productive. Who Gets the Money?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's like running on a treadmill that keeps increasing its speed. You have to go faster and faster just to stay in place. Or, as a factory worker said many years ago, ''You can work 'til you drop dead, but you won't get ahead.''
 American workers have been remarkably productive in recent years, but they are getting fewer and fewer of the benefits of this increased productivity. While the economy, as measured by the gross domestic product, has been strong for some time now, ordinary workers have gotten little more than the back of the hand from employers who have pocketed an unprecedented share of the cash from this burst of economic growth. 
 What is happening is nothing short of historic. The American workers' share of the increase in national income since November 2001, the end of the last recession, is the lowest on record. Employers took the money and ran. This is extraordinary, but very few people are talking about it, which tells you something about the hold that corporate interests have on the national conversation.
 The situation is summed up in the long, unwieldy but very revealing title of a new study from the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University: ''The Unprecedented Rising Tide of Corporate Profits and the Simultaneous Ebbing of Labor Compensation -- Gainers and Losers from the National Economic Recovery in 2002 and 2003.''
 Andrew Sum, the center's director and lead author of the study, said: ''This is the first time we've ever had a case where two years into a recovery, corporate profits got a larger share of the growth of national income than labor did. Normally labor gets about 65 percent and corporate profits about 15 to 18 percent. This time profits got 41 percent and labor [meaning all forms of employee compensation, including wages, benefits, salaries and the percentage of payroll taxes paid by employers] got 38 percent.''
 The study said: ''In no other recovery from a post-World War II recession did corporate profits ever account for as much as 20 percent of the growth in national income. And at no time did corporate profits ever increase by a greater amount than labor compensation.''
 In other words, an awful lot of American workers have been had. Fleeced. Taken to the cleaners.
 The recent productivity gains have been widely acknowledged. But workers are not being compensated for this. During the past two years, increases in wages and benefits have been very weak, or nonexistent. And despite the growth of jobs in March that had the Bush crowd dancing in the White House halls last Friday, there has been no net increase in formal payroll employment since the end of the recession. We have lost jobs. There are fewer payroll jobs now than there were when the recession ended in November 2001.
 So if employers were not hiring workers, and if they were miserly when it came to increases in wages and benefits for existing employees, what happened to all the money from the strong economic growth?
 The study is very clear on this point. The bulk of the gains did not go to workers, ''but instead were used to boost profits, lower prices, or increase C.E.O. compensation.''
 This is a radical transformation of the way the bounty of this country has been distributed since World War II. Workers are being treated more and more like patrons in a rigged casino. They can't win.
 Corporate profits go up. The stock market goes up. Executive compensation skyrockets. But workers, for the most part, remain on the treadmill.
 When you look at corporate profits versus employee compensation in this recovery, and then compare that, as Mr. Sum and his colleagues did, with the eight previous recoveries since World War II, it's like turning a chart upside down.
 The study found that the amount of income growth devoured by corporate profits in this recovery is ''historically unprecedented,'' as is the ''low share . . . accruing to the nation's workers in the form of labor compensation.''
 I have to laugh when I hear conservatives complaining about class warfare. They know this terrain better than anyone. They launched the war. They're waging it. And they're winning it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%) Center for Labor Market Studies

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



117 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Insight Into Tyco Juror No. 4
Interviews with some of the jurors in the Tyco case, which ended in a mistrial Friday, reveal a complex picture of Juror No. 4, Ruth B. Jordan, who was at the center of the decline in deliberations. PAGE B1

A Referendum on Wal-Mart
In what is seen as a test case, voters in Inglewood, Calif., will decide tomorrow whether to cede control of 60-acres to Wal-Mart for a megastore. PAGE A14

New View of File Sharing
Contrary to what the music industry has long contended, Internet downloading does not cut into CD sales, according to a draft of an economic study. PAGE C1

Foundation Grants Down
Giving by foundations decreased in 2003, a victim of the stock market malaise of 2002 and the uncertainty of the economic recovery. PAGE A19

It's UConn vs. Tennessee
Diana Taurasi, shooting over Janel McCarville, led Connecticut to a 67-58 victory over Minnesota and into the N.C.A.A. final against Tennessee tomorrow. Tennessee beat Louisiana State, 52-50. SPORTSMONDAY, PAGE D1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISTRIAL (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); REFERENDUMS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); RETAILERS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



118 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: A Heretical View of File Sharing

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
The music industry says it repeatedly, with passion and conviction: downloading hurts sales. 
 That statement is at the heart of the war on file sharing, both of music and movies, and underpins lawsuits against thousands of music fans, as well as legislation approved last week by a House Judiciary subcommittee that would create federal penalties for using what is known as peer-to-peer technology to download copyrighted works. It is also part of the reason that the Justice Department introduced an intellectual-property task force last week that plans to step up criminal prosecutions of copyright infringers. 
 But what if the industry is wrong, and file sharing is not hurting record sales?
 It might seem counterintuitive, but that is the conclusion reached by two economists who released a draft last week of the first study that makes a rigorous economic comparison of directly observed activity on file-sharing networks and music buying. 
 ''Downloads have an effect on sales which is statistically indistinguishable from zero, despite rather precise estimates,'' write its authors, Felix Oberholzer-Gee of the Harvard Business School and Koleman S. Strumpf of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
 The industry has reacted with the kind of flustered consternation that the White House might display if Richard A. Clarke showed up at a Rose Garden tea party. Last week, the Recording Industry Association of America sent out three versions of a six-page response to the study.
 The problem with the industry view, Professors Oberholzer-Gee and Strumpf say, is that it is not supported by solid evidence. Previous studies have failed because they tend to depend on surveys, and the authors contend that surveys of illegal activity are not trustworthy. ''Those who agree to have their Internet behavior discussed or monitored are unlikely to be representative of all Internet users,'' the authors wrote.
 Instead, they analyzed the direct data of music downloaders over a 17-week period in the fall of 2002, and compared that activity with actual music purchases during that time. Using complex mathematical formulas, they determined that spikes in downloading had almost no discernible effect on sales. Even under their worst-case example, ''it would take 5,000 downloads to reduce the sales of an album by one copy,'' they wrote. ''After annualizing, this would imply a yearly sales loss of two million albums, which is virtually rounding error'' given that 803 million records were sold in 2002. Sales dropped by 139 million albums from 2000 to 2002.
 ''While downloads occur on a vast scale, most users are likely individuals who would not have bought the album even in the absence of file sharing,'' the professors wrote.
 In an interview, Professor Oberholzer-Gee said that previous research assumed that every download could be thought of as a lost sale. In fact, he said, most downloaders were drawn to free music and were unlikely to spend $18 on a CD. 
 ''Say I offer you a free flight to Florida,'' he asks. ''How likely is it that you will go to Florida? It is very likely, because the price is free.'' If there were no free ticket, that trip to Florida would be much less likely, he said. Similarly, free music might draw all kinds of people, but ''it doesn't mean that these people would buy CD's at $18,'' he said.
 The most popular albums bought are also the most popular downloads, so the researchers looked for anomalous rises in downloading activity that they might compare to sales activity. They found one such spike, Professor Oberholzer-Gee said, during a German school holiday that occurred during the time they studied. Germany is second to the United States in making files available for downloading, supplying about 15 percent of online music files, he said. During the vacation, students who were home with time on their hands flooded the Internet with new files, which in turn spurred new downloading activity. The researchers then looked for any possible impact in the subsequent weeks on sales of CD's. 
 Professor Oberholzer said that he had expected to find that downloading resulted in some harm to the industry, and was startled when he first ran the numbers in the spring of 2003. ''I called Koleman and said, 'Something is not quite right -- there seems to be no effect between file sharing and sales.''' 
 Amy Weiss, an industry spokeswoman, expressed incredulity at what she deemed an ''incomprehensible'' study, and she ridiculed the notion that a relatively small sample of downloads could shed light on the universe of activity. 
 The industry response, titled ''Downloading Hurts Sales,'' concludes: ''If file sharing has no negative impact on the purchasing patterns of the top selling records, how do you account for the fact that, according to SoundScan, the decrease of Top 10 selling albums in each of the last four years is: 2000, 60 million units; 2001, 40 million units; 2002, 34 million units; 2003, 33 million units?''
 Critics of the industry's stance have long suggested that other factors might be contributing to the drop in sales, including a slow economy, fewer new releases and a consolidation of radio networks that has resulted in less variety on the airwaves. Some market experts have also suggested that record sales in the 1990's might have been abnormally high as people bought CD's to replace their vinyl record collections.
 ''The single-bullet theory employed by the R.I.A.A. has always been considered by anyone with even a modicum of economic knowledge to be pretty ambitious as spin,'' said Joe Fleischer, the head of sales and marketing for BigChampagne, a company that tracks music downloads and is used by some record companies to measure the popularity of songs for marketing purposes. 
 The industry response stresses that the new study has not gone through the process of peer review. But the response cites refuting statistics and analysis, much of it prepared by market research consultants, that also have not gone through peer review.
 One consultant, Russ Crupnick, vice president of the NPD Group, called the report ''absolutely astounding.'' Asked to explain how the professors' analysis might be mistaken, he said he was still trying to understand the complex document: ''I am not the level of mathematician that the professors purport to be.''
 Stan Liebowitz of the University of Texas at Dallas, author of an essay cited by the industry, said the use of a German holiday to judge American behavior was strained. Professor Liebowitz argued in a paper in 2002 that file sharing did not affect music sales, but said he had since changed his mind. 
 The Liebowitz essay appeared in an economics journal edited by Gary D. Libecap, a professor of economics at the University of Arizona, who said that his publication was not peer reviewed, though the articles in it were often based on peer-reviewed work. Professor Libecap said he attended a presentation by Professor Strumpf last week, and said the file-sharing study ''looks really good to me.''
 ''This was really careful, empirical work,'' Professor Libecap said.
 The author of another report recommended by the industry said that the two sets of data used by the researchers should not be compared. ''They can't get to that using the two sets of data they are using -- they aren't tracking individual behavior,'' said Jayne Charneski, formerly of Edison Media Research, who prepared a report last June that she said showed that 7 percent of the marketplace consists of people who download music and do not buy it. That number is far lower than the authors of the new study estimated. ''There's a lot of research out there that's conducted with an agenda in mind,'' said Ms. Charneski, now the head of research for the record label EMI.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Cash, Credit or Click?''Analysts find it difficult to show a direct cause-and-effect relationship between peer-topeer music downloading and music sales. Here are some indicators.Graph tracks new albums released from 1999-2003.Graph tracks albums sold from 1999-2003.Graph tracks downloading users (usage peak per month*) from 2002-2004.*Major peer-to-peer networks: Kazaa, iMesh, DirectConnect, Gnutella and eDonkey (since Jan. 2003)(Sources by Nielsen SoundScan
 BigChampagne)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); WRITERS (87%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); COPYRIGHT (76%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%); MATHEMATICS (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

PERSON: John Schwartz; Felix Oberholzer-Gee; Koleman S Strumpf

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



119 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Patents

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Trademark applications, by one theory an economic gauge, remain low in some sectors.

BYLINE: By Sabra Chartrand

 BODY:
ACCORDING to several important indicators, the economy could be on the rebound. But a very unofficial indicator -- filings with the Patent and Trademark Office -- suggests that a big bounce will not come anytime soon. 
 For 12 years the intellectual-property law firm of Dechert has tracked trends in trademarks. Manufacturers, retailers, marketers and advertisers file trademark applications to secure brand names or images that they believe represent ''potential new businesses, product launches, line extensions or ad campaigns,'' according to a survey by Dechert. 
 Because it can often take the Patent and Trademark Office months or years to process an application, they are frequently filed well in advance of their actual use. As such, the applications can provide a snapshot of what businesses expect from the economy in the near term.
 ''Our reports have shown how the flow of applications to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office can reflect either economic optimism or pessimism,'' wrote Glenn A. Gundersen, the partner in Dechert's Philadelphia office who originated the trademark survey, in the current report. ''Through good times and bad, trademark filings have echoed the larger economy in uncanny ways.''
 It found that in 2003, some companies remained pessimistic. Overall applications increased 5 percent -- an improvement, certainly, over the decreases in 2001 and 2002 but were down for several industries often cited as the future of American business and job creation -- high technology, computer hardware and software, the Internet, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals and financial services. 
 The report says that the overall increase in applications came from ''filings for marks for the basics of life -- food, drink, clothing.''
 Mr. Gundersen remarked: ''To me, the report is a reflection of what I read about anecdotally in the newspaper about the economy. Over all, when we sit down and crunch these numbers, what we find usually rings true in terms of what we see and hear in these industries.'' 
 The big growth area for trademarks seemed to be in food with a huge jump in applications incorporating the word ''carb,'' short for carbohydrate, the forbidden fruit of faddish dieters who follow the Atkins and similar weight-loss plans. Requests for variations on ''carb'' marks quadrupled in 2003, and over half of those were filed at the end of the year. The rush meant that many people filed applications for similar brand names -- producing a sort of ''carb gridlock,'' Mr. Gundersen said.
 ''It's very rare to see this phenomenon with variations on the same word filed so quickly, and it creates great uncertainty,'' Mr. Gundersen continued. ''They can't move to market with their brand name until that gap is filled.'' 
 Over all, applications increased each year through the 1990's, reflecting the decade's strong economic growth. But as much of the economy contracted, applications dropped. In 2001 they were off 23 percent, and in 2002 they fell 3 percent further, Dechert found.
 ''When companies file applications, about half are filed for products not on the market or businesses or services not yet launched,'' Mr. Gundersen said in an interview. ''So we see in the applications filed now what plans people are making for products or services in the coming months or years.'' 
 Like patents, trademarks are a capital asset -- property that a company can own to enhance a brand, product or service. An exclusive name or image associated with a product in the mind of consumers often increases its value. 
 But the reverse can also be true -- as the Martha Stewart case has recently shown. As Ms. Stewart's personal fortune took a turn for the worse, so have the fortunes of her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. The company controls 43 registered trademarks and has 36 more pending for segments of its magazine, television and sales businesses. Since Ms. Stewart was indicted on obstruction of justice and conspiracy charges last June, the company has applied for 12 new trademarks, none of which include her name. In mid-March, it requested a trademark for ''Living,'' to cover a ''general interest magazine and section or column of a newspaper.'' 
 ''Only a few people have built that much of a group of businesses all centered around their name,'' Mr. Gundersen said. ''Oprah comes close. There are lots of marks that have been around so long that none of us remember the individual. I'd have to go back and do research to remember who Duncan Hines was.
 ''Those other people are not quite as visible,'' he added. ''For example, there was an Estee Lauder, but she didn't have a TV show.''
 After Sept. 11, 2001, there was a rush to trademark slogans and images incorporating the attack date and the American flag. There was also a sudden surge in applications for marks using the name ''Osama.'' Entrepreneurs of various kinds wanted to emblazon Al Qaeda's leader on T-shirts and bumper stickers, among other products. But last year, after the war in Iraq began, Mr. Gundersen found, applications dropped for comparable products. Only three applications were filed requesting rights to the name ''Saddam,'' the report says -- one for golf balls, one for condoms, and one for novelty items like most-wanted cards and key chains. 
 Evidence of a continuing slump in some areas of the economy can be seen in the decrease in applications for high-technology and telecommunications brands, which only a few years ago led the pack in popularity. The decrease began with the bursting of the dot-com bubble, but Mr. Gundersen did not expect it to continue.
 ''I was surprised,'' he said. ''I would have thought there would have been some recovery there, or that if the overall applications were up, those would be flat rather than continuing to go down. But marks for products and services in the technology sector are still slumping, even though applications over all started to increase again.'' Financial services companies filed fewer requests in 2003 for trademarks on mutual funds, investment management and securities brokerage services. 
 More unexpected was a slump in the pharmaceutical industry. ''Pharmaceutical applications went up in 2000,'' Mr. Gundersen said, ''and were flat the next two years. And then this year we saw a dip, and they decreased 15 percent.'' 
 He added that the industry rarely sees such declines in applications. ''That one is a little more of a head-scratcher,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Unofficial Indicator''Trademark applications have decreased over the last three years in categories thought to be predictors of the job market.NEW TRADEMARK APPLICATIONS2001Number: 222,800Percentage change from previous year: -23%2002Number: 215,900Percentage change from previous year: -32003Number: 226,700Percentage change from previous year: +5COMPUTER-RELATED2001Number: 43,000Percentage change from previous year: -46%2002Number: 30,000Percentage change from previous year: -322003Number: 26,000Percentage change from previous year: -13INTERNET-RELATED2001Number: 17,300Percentage change from previous year: -59%2002Number: 11,500Percentage change from previous year: -342003Number: 10,700Percentage change from previous year: -7TELECOMMUNICATIONS2001Number: 6,200Percentage change from previous year: -44%2002Number: 4,000Percentage change from previous year: -342003Number: 3,500Percentage change from previous year: -13PRESCRIPTION DRUG-RELATED2001Number: 4,800Percentage change from previous year: -2%2002Number: 4,800Percentage change from previous year: 0%2003Number: 4,100Percentage change from previous year: -15(Source by U.S. Patent and Trademark Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADEMARKS (92%); TRADEMARK LAW (92%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PATENTS (90%); BRANDING (89%); TRENDS (79%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); DIETING (68%); JOB CREATION (67%) 

COMPANY: DECHERT LLP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (94%) Dechert (Law Firm)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: Sabra Chartrand

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



120 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Fluctuating Market a Culprit As Foundation Grants Slip

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Giving by foundations last year fell victim to the stock market malaise that pummeled foundation assets in 2002 and the uncertainty of the economic recovery.
 Grants from the nation's almost 65,000 independent, community and corporate foundations in 2003 totaled an estimated $29.7 billion, compared with $30.3 billion in 2002, a 4.7 percent decrease when adjusted for inflation, says a survey to be released today by the Foundation Center, an organization in New York that tracks grant making and reports on trends.
 In 2002, foundation giving fell by 1.8 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis.
 Foundation leaders and experts had expected the decline last year but were relieved that the drop in giving was not more precipitous, given that foundation assets fell 10.5 percent from 2000 to 2002. 
 Although many foundation endowments benefited from the stock market's rise over the past year, foundation executives are not convinced that the gains will stay in place. ''Foundations have yet to recover from the drop in their assets that started in 2000,'' said Loren Renz, vice president for research at the Foundation Center. ''Until they have fully realized that recovery and seen that the stock market is stable and the prospects for economic growth are more consistent, they're going to be more cautious.''
 The caution is justified. The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation lost more than $1 billion in 2002, largely because of a decline in the value of its stakes in Hewlett-Packard and Agilent, which it has been gradually selling off to diversify.
 The foundation's assets then rose roughly $900 million, reaching $6 billion last year, and it made grants totaling $258 million, said Paul Brest, its president.
 Assets now stand at $6.2 billion, including amounts that are being transferred from the trust set up to endow the foundation, and Mr. Brest said its giving would total $284 million to $305 million, depending on the market's performance. 
 As Hewlett demonstrates, the market recovery last year is likely to increase foundation giving this year, although sharp swings in the market have prompted caution. ''The market has done well so far, but you don't want to count your chickens too fast,'' Mr. Brest said.
 Also, foundation giving does not directly correlate to the performance of a single year's assets because many foundations determine their spending using a three-year average of their assets.
 Thus, while assets performed much better in 2003 than in 2002, giving in 2003 still reflected the depressed asset values of 2001 and 2002.
 For example, the Duke Endowment's assets climbed roughly 10 percent to $2.3 billion last year, said Elizabeth H. Locke, its president, but its grants fell to $108.1 million from $116 million in 2002 because of averaging and because some investment values improved but produced no liquid income.
 ''The thing a lot of nonprofits don't understand is that 2003 being a good year doesn't translate instantly into more money,'' Ms. Locke said. ''It's hard to explain how you had a good year but you're not giving away an equivalently larger amount.'' She said it was too early to predict what the endowment's giving would be this year. ''We're hopefully waiting to see what happens in the stock market and the economy.'' 
 Ten of the country's 50 largest foundations reported gains in their assets in 2002, compared with just six in 2001. Only the Robert R. McCormick Tribune Foundation, the Donald W. Reynolds Foundation and the Marin Community Foundation posted gains of 10 percent or more. But the gain at Reynolds was due largely to a change in accounting, its president, Steven L. Anderson, said.
 Reynolds gave away $122 million last year, compared with $98.2 million in 2002, even though returns on its investments declined for the first time since it was founded six years ago. But Reynolds is scheduled to go out of business in 44 years, so its giving is not tied to fluctuations in assets.
 The center reported that 30 of the 50 largest foundations suffered double-digit declines in their assets in 2002, with six -- the Lilly Endowment and the Ford, Starr, David and Lucile Packard, Robert Wood Johnson and Hewlett foundations -- losing at least $1 billion.
 Giving by corporate and community foundations also very likely slipped last year, the center said. 
 Giving by community foundations was flat at an estimated $2.57 billion, a 0.7 percent decline when adjusted for inflation, in part because contributions to those foundations were flat in 2002. Assets at community foundations fell 2.2 percent in 2001 and 2002 after six straight years of double-digit growth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (94%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%) 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOUNDATION CENTER (83%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (54%); A (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (54%)

PERSON: Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



121 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Indonesians Vote, With the Economy, Not Islam, in Spotlight

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, April 4 

 BODY:
Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, will vote on Monday in parliamentary elections that surveys indicate will turn on the country's widespread dismay with the limping economy rather than on questions about Islam.
 This is the second parliamentary election since the fall of Suharto in this country known for moderate Islamic beliefs. The polls indicate that Indonesians are likely to choose between the two well-established secular parties and give only fleeting attention to the small Islamic parties.
 The elections will set the stage for presidential elections in July and most analysts will be watching to see how the Democratic Party for Struggle of President Megawati Sukarnoputri will fare against Golkar, the party founded by General Suharto. 
 A poll published over the weekend, by the Washington-based International Foundation for Election Systems, gave Golkar a substantial lead, which seemed to reflect the general disaffection with Ms. Sukarnoputri's relaxed leadership style. But it also showed a large group of undecided voters.
 Unlike more populous India, which staggers its voting over a number of days, Indonesia has decided to accomplish the vote on one day.
 With 147 million eligible voters living on 17,000 islands, 585,000 polling places have been established so that villagers do not have to travel far. Voting will be from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. to allow for counting to take place during daylight. 
 But with many polling places far from telephones and electricity, it is likely to be weeks rather than days before the official vote tally is completed. 
 ''Will the infrastructure work?'' asked Hank Valentino, a senior adviser to the International Foundation for Election Systems. ''Where election workers have to bring the ballots by road, will there be an avalanche? If they have to go by boat, will the boat be there?''
 Given the complicated logistics, Mr. Valentino, who advised the Indonesians in their first post-Suharto parliamentary election in 1999, said the participation in the preparations had been encouraging. About five million poll workers, most of them teachers, have been designated.
 ''Indonesia has made tremendous steps in democratic reforms, especially given the size of the country,'' he said. ''It's a huge leap.''
 The Indonesian Election Commission carefully regulated campaigning during the 22-day campaign period, giving each party designated days to stage rallies. But many rallies were little more than pop concerts, with hired singers often outperforming the candidates. The timetable also gave little room for real discussion of the issues.
 But polls and informal comments by voters demonstrate a hankering for a return to some of the stability that many Indonesians felt before the economic collapse in 1997.
 About one-third of the 100-million-member labor force is either unemployed or underemployed, according to Western economists. The World Bank said last December that Indonesia's economic growth could not absorb the 2 million to 2.5 million new entrants in the labor force every year. The bank said child health had deteriorated to such an extent that the rate of immunization of children was lower than in 1990, and that one quarter of all children were underweight. To add to the dark picture, the bank noted that Indonesia had one of the world's weakest education systems. 
 One of the surprises in the last few weeks has been the large crowds who came to hear a former senior minister in Ms. Megawati's cabinet, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.
 Mr. Susilo is running on the platform of the little known Party Democrat. To nominate a presidential candidate, a party must reach 5 percent of the popular vote or 3 percent of the parliamentary seats.
 Mr. Susilo's party seemed within reach of 5 percent, according to the International Foundation's poll. Mr. Susilo's personal rating jumped from 8 percent on March 10 to 18.4 percent on March 28, the survey said. 
 Support for Ms. Megawati has remained flat in the polls, around 11 percent in the last several months. The leader of the Golkar party, Akbar Tandjung, whose conviction on embezzlement charges was overturned by the Supreme Court in February, had 6 percent in a question about the popularity of leaders in the International Foundation survey.
 Another candidate for the Golkar nomination, Gen. Wiranto -- who has been indicted by a United Nations tribunal for East Timor on charges of crimes against humanity connected with the turmoil there in 1999 -- slightly trailed Mr. Akbar in the survey.
 In some respects, the Indonesian results are expected to mirror the outcome in Malaysia two weeks ago when the radical Islamic party, Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party, lost considerable ground from gains it had made several years ago. 
 As in Malaysia, the Islamic parties in Indonesia will not attract a substantial vote. 
 But one of the Indonesian Islamic parties, the Prosperous Justice Party, which is run by relatively young Western-educated men and women, is expected to do better than in the past.
 Yet even this Islamic party has based its campaign on an anticorruption theme rather than emphasizing its beliefs in the need for a system of Islamic law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (93%); RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ISLANDS & REEFS (51%) 

PERSON: Jane Perlez

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



122 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Stymied by Politicians, Wal-Mart Turns to Voters

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: INGLEWOOD, Calif., April 2 

 BODY:
As Wal-Mart continues its march across the American landscape, this Los Angeles suburb of 112,000 people is the latest testing ground for the company's exercise of political and marketing muscle.
 Inglewood voters go to the polls on Tuesday to decide whether to turn over 60 acres of barren concrete adjacent to the Hollywood Park racetrack to Wal-Mart to create a megastore and a collection of chain shops and restaurants.
 The ballot initiative is sponsored by Wal-Mart, which collected more than 10,000 signatures to put the question to voters after the Inglewood City Council blocked the proposed development last year, citing environmental, traffic, labor, public safety and economic concerns.
 While Wal-Mart has turned to the ballot in a number of cities and towns to win the right to build its giant emporiums, the Inglewood initiative is significantly different. The proposal would essentially exempt Wal-Mart from all of Inglewood's planning, zoning and environmental regulations, creating a city-within-a-city subject only to its own rules. Wal-Mart has hired an advertising and public relations firm to market the initiative and is spending more than $1 million to support the measure, known as initiative 04-A. 
 The company is blanketing the community, which is roughly half African-American and half Latino, with mailers and telephone calls and is broadcasting advertisements on television stations with black and Latino audiences.
 Company officials say that Wal-Mart adopted this aggressive new tactic only after it became clear that Inglewood officials -- backed by allies in organized labor, church groups and community organizations -- would never approve the complex. Wal-Mart is strongly anti-union.
 ''We were told, basically, 'Don't waste your time,' '' said Peter Kanelos, the Southern California coordinator for Wal-Mart's community affairs division.
 ''But these groups are not representative of the community,'' he said. ''Organized labor is attempting to bully Wal-Mart and its customers. If organized labor and those elected officials they put into power think they're going to attack Wal-Mart, then they better expect Wal-Mart to fight back.''
 The project's opponents say that Wal-Mart is the one doing the bullying. They noted that the company paid signature gatherers for the ballot initiative more than it pays its average clerk.
 And they say that Inglewood will be a test case. If the initiative succeeds here, they say, it will become a model for Wal-Mart sovereignty across the nation and around the globe.
 ''This is the first time in the country they've tried to do something this extreme,'' said Madeline Janis-Aparicio, leader of the Coalition for a Better Inglewood, a group formed to fight the Wal-Mart project. ''They are driving a Mack truck through California land use, planning and environmental law and trying to create a Wal-Mart government on this 60-acre site. If they succeed in doing this, it will be their blueprint.''
 Ms. Janis-Aparicio's coalition expects to spend about $35,000 to oppose the project. The Los Angeles County Federation of Labor will add about $125,000 and provide logistical aid in the form of phone banks and precinct walkers.
 They are joined by many of the merchants along Inglewood's downtrodden Market Street, whose store windows display signs reading: ''Save Our Community From Wal-Mart. No on 4A.''
 Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, has announced plans to build 40 supercenters in California over the next five years, combining its usual assortment of goods with a full line of groceries. California's grocery workers and supermarket chains are trying to slow or stop the company's expansion. They have enlisted the support of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the Nation of Islam and a number of elected officials and community groups opposed to Wal-Mart's employment practices and its impact on local merchants.
 Voters in San Marcos, in northern San Diego County, last month rebuffed Wal-Mart's effort to open a second store in the community. But citizens of Contra Costa County, in the San Francisco Bay area, voted by a large margin last month to repeal a council-passed ordinance banning construction of retail behemoths.
 Wal-Mart's first California supercenter opened in La Quinta, a desert community about 100 miles east of Los Angeles. Two more are scheduled to open soon in the Palm Springs area.
 The groups opposed to the Inglewood development have already gone to state court to try to block the project, but a judge ruled that any legal challenge would have to await the outcome of the April 6 vote. Ms. Janis-Aparicio said that if the measure is approved, the coalition will return to court immediately.
 A December opinion from the state attorney general indicates that the opponents may be on solid ground.
 The attorney general's letter to the Inglewood City Council states that while the initiative process may be used to adopt land-use and planning measures, the ballot cannot be used to usurp powers granted to elected bodies, like issuing building permits. The attorney general also said the initiative might be in conflict with state laws governing subdivisions and the environment.
 The initiative, which can pass by a simple majority vote, includes a provision requiring a two-thirds vote of the public to alter any of the terms of the development project. The attorney general said that provision also appeared to conflict with state law.
 Mr. Kanelos, the Wal-Mart official, said that the 71-page initiative spells out the project in minute detail, including building materials, traffic flows, landscaping and even plumbing fixtures. Each of these provisions ''meets or exceeds every local and state building and environmental requirement,'' he said.
 All four members of the Inglewood City Council oppose the project, along with the area's congresswoman and state assemblyman. One Inglewood council member, Curren D. Price Jr., who is a lawyer and expert on community development, said he had researched Wal-Mart's plans across the country and had not found a single instance in which the company sought such broad exemption from local control.
 ''That's what's so offensive,'' Mr. Price said. 
 ''We're talking about 60 acres and an area covering 17 football fields and they don't want to have any give and take on how this thing rolls out,'' he said. 
 The only city official vocally supporting the project is the mayor, Roosevelt F. Dorn. He said the complex would bring more than 1,000 new permanent jobs, add $3 million to $5 million a year to the distressed city's tax base and provide a revenue stream to finance as much as $100 million in new bonds. ''We're talking about a new police station, a new community and cultural center, a new park in District 4, upgrades for every park and recreation area in Inglewood,'' Mr. Dorn said. ''As far as I'm concerned, it's a no-brainer.''
 David Karjanen, research coordinator at the Center on Policy Initiatives, a nonprofit group in San Diego that studies the impact of development on low- and moderate-income families, said he had studied Wal-Mart's efforts to win approval for projects across the nation and found the Inglewood case to be unique in the breadth of the exemption it would win from local land-use planning.
 ''If this succeeds in Inglewood, it will set a precedent and send a message to developers who have an unpalatable project,'' Dr. Karjanen said. ''It will open the door for others, not just Wal-Mart, and we can expect to see this happen across California and elsewhere.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a ballot initiative in Inglewood, Calif., on whether to allow the building of a Wal-Mart incompletely described the Center on Policy Initiatives, whose research director said the measure could open the door for other developers across the country. Several members of the Center's board of directors have ties to organized labor, which worked to defeat the Wal-Mart measure.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Voters in Inglewood, Calif., will decide tomorrow whether to let Wal-Mart build a megastore on 60 acres of barren concrete by Hollywood Park racetrack, top. Curren D. Price Jr., a city councilman, says the company is seeking too broad an exemption from local control. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)Map of Inglewood, California, highlighting the location of Wal-Mart area. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); BALLOTS (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ZONING (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); BULLYING (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); RELIGION (50%) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Inglewood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



123 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Narrow Field For Director Of I.M.F. to 2

BYLINE: By BRIAN LAVERY

DATELINE: DUBLIN, April 4 

 BODY:
Over two days of talks at a racetrack outside Dublin, European finance ministers narrowed their field of candidates to run the International Monetary Fund, and settled on two names: Rodrigo Rato of Spain and Jean Lemierre of France.
 The Irish finance minister, Charlie McCreevy, presided at the talks because Ireland holds the rotating presidency of the European Union. He said he hoped that a consensus would emerge over the next two weeks, as his British counterpart, Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, consults with other I.M.F. nations. 
 The European choice is likely to be named at the annual meeting of the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development on April 18 in London, Mr. McCreevy said. The final decision is to be made near the end of the month in Washington.
 The I.M.F.'s executive board is officially responsible for choosing a new managing director, but the European ministers' choice is a clear indicator of who will get the job because it is customarily held by a European, while an American usually heads the World Bank.
 Mr. Rato, the departing Spanish finance minister, was the early front-runner after Horst Kohler announced his resignation from the I.M.F. post on March 4 to run for the German presidency, a race he is expected to win. Mr. Rato enjoys support from smaller European countries and from Latin America, though he suffered a setback when his political group, the Popular Party, was ousted in the Spanish national elections last month.
 When France and Germany proposed Mr. Lemierre, the president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the move was interpreted by Mr. Rato's backers as an attempt to undermine Mr. Rato's candidacy. Mr. Lemierre is benefiting from an informal agreement under which France will back a German for a new European commissioner's post with oversight of economic, industrial and trade policy.
 That deal has prompted criticism from other countries in the I.M.F. about a lack of transparency in its operations. A strong consensus candidate is also needed to avoid repeating the situation in 2000, when the United States vetoed the initial European proposal.
 Applauding the current choices, Hans Eichel, the German finance minister, said, ''We have two candidates with different profiles -- one a financial expert, the other the experienced politician, Lemierre and Rato.'' 
 Before this weekend's action, several other names, including those of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy and the European Union's competition commissioner, Mario Monti, had also been raised. That situation led Mr. McCreevy to play down expectations that the ministers would be able to agree on a candidate. That they have come closer to selecting one provides further credit to Ireland's presidency of the European Union, which ends in June. The term so far has been characterized by surprising cooperation on European constitutional negotiations.
 The two days of meetings, which covered consultations on broad economic topics like the European Union's operating budget, were not without disappointments. The European Union's stability and growth pact, which limits national budget deficits, is threatened by breaches from Italy and the Netherlands.
 But winnowing the I.M.F. front-runners was enough of a success for Mr. McCreevy. As a die-hard horse-racing fan, he may have benefited from having the event at the Punchestown racetrack in County Kildare, his home constituency, even if government financing for the site is the subject of recent regulatory investigations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); VETO (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (75%); HORST KOHLER (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%) Brian Lavery; Rodrigo (Min) Rato; Jean Lemierre; Charlie (Min) Mccreevy; Gordon (Chancellor of the Exchequer) Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); IRELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



124 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: False Promises on Gas

 BODY:
Though the recent spike in gasoline prices invites serious debate about America's long-term energy policy, President Bush and Senator John Kerry seem more interested in scoring quick political points. Mr. Kerry's campaign literature offers the makings of a broad energy strategy that would reduce the nation's reliance on fossil fuels -- and therefore on Persian Gulf oil. Yet the prospect of capitalizing on consumer anxieties has enticed the president and Mr. Kerry into useless finger-pointing. 
 Last week Mr. Kerry said that the president had allowed gasoline prices to rise 12 percent, suggested that he could do a better job of ''jawboning'' countries like Saudi Arabia into producing more oil and promised to divert oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in order to increase market supplies and lower prices. On all three points, the senator implied that a president can influence short-term world oil prices, and thus prices at the pump. No president can, except at the margins, and Mr. Kerry knows that. As if to prove the point, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps about one-third of the world's oil, announced on Wednesday its intention to cut output by 4 percent.
 The administration promptly retaliated with a television commercial accusing Mr. Kerry of favoring a 50-cent rise in the gasoline tax that would cost the average family $657. The ad failed to mention that Mr. Kerry favored this a decade ago and only as part of a deficit-reduction plan. 
 The sad part about this squabbling is that it drives the debate toward short-term fixes of dubious value and away from the heart of the matter, which is getting the country to cut consumption while embarking on a serious program of alternative fuels. Tweaking the petroleum reserve, jawboning foreign leaders, even increasing refining capacity -- none of these ideas have ever provided sustained protection against the volatility of world oil prices. A better approach would be to wean the nation from its profligate use of oil. In that context, a 50-cent gasoline tax is not a ridiculous idea; had such a tax been imposed a decade ago, consumption might well be less than it is now.
 The more reliable way to reduce consumption is to raise fuel economy standards. On this score, at least on paper, Mr. Kerry has much the better of the argument. Despite Mr. Bush's claim of having a comprehensive energy strategy, the administration and its allies on Capitol Hill have made sure to stuff just about everything but meaningful efficiency standards into their proposed legislation. Mr. Kerry's broad plan for ''energy independence'' offers greater hope, embracing as it does a proposal he co-sponsored two years ago with Senator John McCain that would increase fuel economy by 50 percent by 2015. At the moment, however, these bold targets reside safely and quietly on Mr. Kerry's campaign Web site. It would be useful if they could find their way into his stump speech. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GASOLINE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



125 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Tries to Portray Bush As Borrow-and-Spend Leader

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 4 

 BODY:
Seeking to define himself as a deficit hawk, Senator John Kerry on Sunday issued a report accusing the Bush administration of fueling the deficit and crippling state budgets by approving or proposing programs worth more than $6 trillion without paying for them.
 As Mr. Kerry, the likely Democratic presidential nominee, emerges from a two-week hiatus -- part vacation, part recuperation from minor shoulder surgery -- the report is the opening round in what Kerry aides said would be a weeklong focus on the economy.
 Polls show that voters perceive the economy as the most important issue in the campaign as well as one on which President Bush is vulnerable. But the release of the report is significant, too, because it signals a new aggressiveness by Mr. Kerry, who, some Democrats have said, has allowed Mr. Bush to define him as a tax-and-spend liberal while he has been largely out of sight and off the trail. 
 Mr. Kerry's strategy of focusing this week on economic issues was planned before the government's release on Friday of numbers showing an increase of 308,000 jobs last month. Democrats said that news made it even more imperative for Mr. Kerry to demonstrate that he would be a better steward of the economy than Mr. Bush has been. His most recent public event was on Wednesday, before entering a hospital here for surgery.
 He re-emerged in public on Sunday in a cold rain, attending Palm Sunday services at the Charles Street A.M.E. Church here with his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry. Mr. Kerry did not speak, but he took communion and was welcomed by the minister, the Rev. Gregory Groover, who declared, ''We're thankful that there's going to be a revolution in this country.''
 Kerry aides said that the report on Mr. Bush's spending, prepared by Mr. Kerry's economic advisers and based on the administration's official estimates, showed that the White House was on a spending spree that would severely hamper the government's ability to pay for Medicare and Social Security in the future as well as immediate needs like domestic security.
 The Kerry campaign said Mr. Bush's initiatives, particularly in expanding entitlement programs like Medicare, would cost $4.9 trillion in the next decade alone and with debt service costs would increase the deficit by $6.5 trillion in that period. The report factors in the future cost of Mr. Bush's tax cuts but does not include the cost of the tax cuts to date, nor does it include the cost of the war in Iraq or Mr. Bush's proposal for a new Mars mission.
 ''In public, this president professes to be a fiscal conservative,'' Roger Altman, who was deputy treasury secretary in the Clinton administration and is an economic adviser to Mr. Kerry, said in a statement Sunday. ''But in truth, he has pushed $6 trillion in new spending without ever paying for a penny of it. That's reckless, and it's the American people who will pay in the end.''
 Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said the report was full of ''specious'' numbers and was intended to distract voters from Mr. Kerry's spending proposals, which, Mr. Schmidt said, go beyond his ability to pay for them.
 ''John Kerry is trying to project the vulnerability of his own campaign onto the president,'' Mr. Schmidt said.
 In the past few days Mr. Kerry has indicated he will have to scale back his proposals because the deficit is larger than he expected when he drew up his plans last summer. 
 Mr. Bush also expects to devote much of this week to the economy. He has said the deficit could be cut in half over the next five years by slowing the growth in spending, and he has indicated he might veto a $275 billion highway and transit bill passed by the Republican-controlled House to make that point.
 Mr. Kerry plans to hold discussions with regional newspapers on Monday to describe the effects of the deficit around the country. On Tuesday he travels to Ohio, a battleground state that has lost 169,000 manufacturing jobs and where 31,300 unemployed workers have exhausted their unemployment benefits.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Kerry is to deliver a major economic address in Washington on his plan to create 10 million jobs in his first four years as president.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In his first public appearance since shoulder surgery last week, Senator John Kerry attended Palm Sunday services yesterday in Boston. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); MEDICARE (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); EASTER SEASON (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); SPACE EXPLORATION (50%) 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ROGER ALTMAN (50%) Katharine Q Seelye; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARS (50%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



126 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Park Is Still a Swamp, but Please Don't Tell the Tourists

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: GADSDEN, S.C. 

 BODY:
Nearly 30 years ago, federal officials declared the soggy bottomland near Columbia the Congaree Swamp National Monument. Then they stepped back and waited for the waves of tourists.
 Instead, intrepid botanists and canoeists poked around the watery expanse of knobby-kneed cypress and loblolly pines. But many would-be vacationers, envisioning plumes of mosquitoes and flesh-eating gators, stayed away. Some of those visitors who did make it down the park's single-lane gravel road would arrive to ask, ''Where's the monument?'' (There is none, at least not a man-made one.) 
 Then, with the help of a little editing, everything changed. In November, President Bush signed legislation that renamed the place Congaree National Park, dropping the S-word as well as upgrading its status from a monument, and as fast as you can say GrandCanyonGrandTetonYellowstoneYosemite, the backpacking, birding hordes started to bear down on this 22,000-acre flood plain, the largest tract of old-growth hardwood in North America, and South Carolina's first national park. 
 ''I guess you could describe us as giddy,'' said Fran Rametta, who has been the park's naturalist since 1980, not long after the area's towering sweet gum and swamp tupelos were saved from the clutches of the logging industry. ''I used to be the loneliest ranger in town. Now the phones are ringing off the hook.''
 Since the new park designation, the monthly visitor head count has more than doubled, with about 12,800 arrivals in March. Mr. Rametta's daily nature walks are booked weeks in advance, and campers now have to compete for the best tent sites.
 ''If I can use a terrible pun, we're getting swamped,'' said Mr. Rametta, who is perhaps best known for his ability to draw in barred owls with his birdlike falsetto.
 People from as far away as France and Canada have been stopping by, and a growing number of residents from Columbia, just 20 miles away, have discovered a place they once associated with the fantastical lore of hikers swallowed up by a black malarial goo.
 ''Unfortunately, I think the word swamp gave people an incomplete picture of what the Congaree is like,'' said Guy Jones, who owns River Runner Outdoor Center, a canoe rental shop in Columbia. ''Now people here are actually proud of the place.'' 
 What visitors quickly discover is a hauntingly beautiful landscape of Spanish-moss-draped trees, some of them 800 years old and 15 stories high. A meandering boardwalk carries hikers above parts of the park that flood up to 10 times a year, and trails that wind deep into the primeval forest itself offer more opportunities for spotting river otters, wild boars, bobcats and more than a few of the 170 species of birds that arrive each spring.
 It is the seasonal flooding of the Congaree River that saved this ancient forest, the last of 24 million acres of riverine woodlands that once blanketed the East Coast. Loggers tried their hand in the 1890's but quickly gave up after the felled trees, heavy with water, refused to float downriver to the sawmills. As lumber prices soared in the 1960's, another effort was made to take down the champion bald cypress and cherry bark oak, spurring local conservationists into action and leading to the creation of the monument in 1976.
 In anticipation of the park's elevated status last fall and increased popularity, a National Guard crew built a museum and visitors center, replacing the double-wide trailer that served the park for two decades. A paved entrance road was also built. 
 ''The only downside of changing the name is you have to buy new letterheads, new signs and new business cards,'' Martha Bogle, the park superintendent, said. ''It's no easy task.'' 
 Another big change is that the park's boundaries will expand by about 5,000 acres in the coming years through the purchase of adjacent private land. 
 Some of the park's newest devotees are much like Jewell Smith, a self-described National Park groupie who made the two-and-a-half-hour drive from Asheville, N.C., as soon as she heard about the National Park family's newest baby.
 ''My goal is to see all of them before I die,'' said Ms. Smith, 47, an unemployed camp administrator, as she set off with her camera. Many hikers come through carrying their National Park Passports, a souvenir booklet they fill with stamps received at the nation's 56 parks and 300 monuments.
 ''Some folks, especially retirees, just spend their free time going between the green dots on the map,'' said Don Barger, southeast regional director of the National Parks Conservation Association. In recent months, magazines like National Geographic, Backpacker and Outside have also helped put the park on the outdoor enthusiasts' to-do list. 
 Those who live near the park's entrance are also excited about the upgrade, even if they are disinclined to visit themselves. Nearly half the area's residents are unemployed and 40 percent live below the poverty line, according to the 2000 census. The surrounding area has a predominantly African-American population, with about a third of the households earning just $10,000 a year.
 ''We could really use the extra business,'' said Anna Lloyd, who owns two of the few commercial enterprises here in Gadsden, a 10-minute drive from the park entrance. ''There just aren't a lot of opportunities around here.'' 
 Although park employees are steady lunch patrons at Ms. Lloyd's diner, J D's Place, and maintenance crews make a point of buying supplies at her hardware store, the trickle-down effect has so far been minimal. It remains to be seen whether local residents can tap into the surge of eco-tourists, many of whom have no choice but to sleep and eat in Columbia, said Ilene Zeldin, a spokeswoman for Senator Ernest F. Hollings, the South Carolina Democrat who was instrumental in getting Congressional support for the National Park designation.
 ''Our hope is that there will be some economic spinoff from tourism, but because they lack the education and business skills, local residents need more help from the state,'' Ms. Zeldin said. 
 In the meantime, recreational outfitters in Columbia are feeling a jump in business. At Adventure Carolina, a kayak and canoe store not far from the Statehouse, Corey Ruth has seen the number of rentals triple since November.
 ''Things are doing great, and my season doesn't really even start until next month,'' Mr. Ruth said. ''The way things are going, I may have to buy more boats.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Parts of Congaree National Park flood 10 times a year, making the environment just right for the bald cypress and swamp tupelo. (Photographs by Perry Baker for The New York Times)
 Jim Hughes of Summerville, S.C., making his wildlife-watching way along the boardwalk that winds through Congaree National Park.Map of South Carolina highlighting Congaree National Park. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); WETLANDS (89%); BOTANY (89%); HIKING (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (74%); BIRDING (73%); MAMMALS (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (72%); FLOOD ZONES (72%); MALARIA (71%); BIRDS (68%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Andrew Jacobs; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (52%) Congaree National Park (SC); Columbia (Sc)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



127 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Investors to Buy 3 German Cable Systems

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 4 

 BODY:
Germany's huge cable television industry fragmented, financially stressed and firmly regulated -- is getting a jolt from a group of American and British investors.
 Kabel Deutschland, a cable operator owned by Providence Equity Partners, Goldman Sachs and Apax Partners of London, announced on Sunday that it would acquire three big regional cable systems in Germany for 2.7 billion euros (about $3.3 billion).
 The deal would reassemble the nationwide cable system originally built by the state phone carrier, Deutsche Telekom. The German government pressed Deutsche Telekom to get out of the cable business four years ago, and it sold the bulk of its systems to Kabel Deutschland last year. 
 In buying the remaining systems, in the states of North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse and Baden-Wurttemberg, Kabel Deutschland's foreign backers will have access to 17 million customers through the country.
 Their goal is to propel Germany's large, but lagging cable industry into the ranks of advanced markets like those in Britain and France, by offering hundreds of channels and high-speed Internet access. 
 ''These acquisitions will give Kabel Deutschland the scale to invest in broader offerings to subscribers across Germany,'' said Jonathan Nelson, the chief executive of Providence Equity Partners in Providence, R.I.
 Kabel Deutschland will spend about 500 million euros ($616 million at current exchange rates) over three years to upgrade its network for digital services.
 If these outsiders prevail, they will succeed where John C. Malone, the American cable entrepreneur, failed. Mr. Malone sought to acquire Deutsche Telekom's cable systems, but could not come to terms with German antitrust regulators over his plan to upgrade the systems to offer telephone and Internet service.
 Kabel Deutschland's backers expressed confidence that their acquisitions would pass muster with German authorities because they are not proposing to marry distribution with programming, as Mr. Malone did.
 ''Nothing will change in the competitive environment,'' said Roland Steindorf, the chief executive of Kabel Deutschland. ''For the time being, we will not be involved in the programming or licensing business.''
 Germany's television landscape has become more varied than when it was controlled by Deutsche Telekom and a handful of state-owned broadcasters. Mr. Steindorf noted that Germans had access to satellite and digital terrestrial broadcasting, which is being introduced in Berlin and other cities.
 With 33 million households, Germany is Europe's largest TV market. Its size and affluence has lured foreign investors, despite the nation's lingering economic slump and a depleted advertising market.
 Last year, a Hollywood television mogul, Haim Saban, won a bidding war for control of ProSiebenSat.1, a leading German broadcaster. Providence Equity Partners was one of Mr. Saban's backers.
 But the cable industry here is a far cry from its heyday in the late 1990's. Mr. Malone's company, Liberty Media, bid about $5 billion for Deutsche Telekom's systems. With Deutsche Telekom burdened by debt and desperate to sell, Kabel Deutschland was able to pick up the systems for about $2 billion early in 2003. 
 The three systems in this latest deal -- known as Ish, which is based in Cologne; Iesy, based in Frankfurt; and Kabel Baden-Wurttemberg, based in Heidelberg -- were heavily indebted and effectively insolvent. Ish, with four million subscribers, had been taken over by more than 30 banks.
 Because they were in such financial straits, German cable operators were never able to upgrade their systems to offer new services. Complicating things further is the peculiar structure of the German cable industry. Unlike in the United States, where companies like Time Warner or Comcast control the cable all the way from their offices into a subscriber's television set, the household connection in this country is often controlled by a middleman: a housing association or a separate agent known as a Level 4 operator.
 That agent bills the customer for cable service, splitting the revenue with Level 3 operators, like Kabel Deutschland. Service costs range from $6 to $16 a month, and are included in the monthly rent. For that, the customer receives some 33 analog television channels.
 ''Germany is way behind other markets in digital networks,'' said Adam Bird, who is in charge of the media practice at Booz, Allen & Hamilton in Munich. ''This is the Stone Age here, compared to Britain.''
 Mr. Malone sought to acquire both Level 3 and Level 4 operators, which would have given him direct access to subscribers. Executives at Kabel Deutschland acknowledge that the industry's structure will not change soon. Their solution is to forge ties with the middlemen, persuading them to promote a wider range of choices to their subscribers in return for higher monthly charges.
 ''We are selling our signals too cheaply to the Level 4 guys,'' Mr. Steindorf said. ''They take our signal, triple the price and sell it to the customer. We're going to say, 'Look, guys, the world is changing.''' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (94%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BROADBAND (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); EURO (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%) 

COMPANY: KABEL DEUTSCHLAND GMBH (90%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (58%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Kabel Deutschland; Providence Equity Partners Inc; Goldman Sachs & Co; Apax Partners & Co; Deutsche Telekom

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (84%); DTE (BIT) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (74%) Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); BADEN-WURTTEMBERG, GERMANY (79%); HESSE, GERMANY (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



128 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 685 words

PERSON: Mildred Jeffrey

HEADLINE: Mildred Jeffrey, 93, Activist for Women, Labor and Liberties

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Mildred Jeffrey, who for seven decades was an influential behind-the-scenes combatant in the women's, labor and civil rights movements, died on March 24 in Detroit. She was 93.
 Her death was announced by the United Automobile Workers union, where she was the first woman to head a department, becoming director of its Women's Bureau in 1944. She was a founder of the National Women's Political Caucus and was the unofficial head of a group of women who helped persuade Walter F. Mondale to name Geraldine A. Ferraro as his running mate on the 1984 Democratic ticket. 
 As a student at the University of Minnesota in the early 1930's, she and an African-American classmate helped integrate restaurants in Minneapolis. Decades later, she marched in the South with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
 In 2000, President Bill Clinton awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor.
 Mildred McWilliams, known as Millie, was born on Dec. 29, 1910, in Alton, Iowa, the eldest of seven children. Her grandmother, a widow, ran a farm and raised 16 children by herself. Her mother, who was the first woman to become a registered pharmacist in Iowa, in 1908, raised seven children on her own after her husband left the family. 
 In 1932, Ms. Jeffrey received a bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Minnesota, where she immersed herself in the socialist and progressive movements. In 1934, she received a master's degree in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr.
 With the passage of laws promoting labor unions, she became an organizer for the Amalgamated Clothing Workers in Philadelphia and later the education director of the Pennsylvania Joint Board of Shirt Workers.
 In 1936, she married another Amalgamated organizer, Homer Newman Jeffrey. They organized workers in the South and the East, taking mill jobs and rushing to unionize factories before management fired them for their activism. They divorced in the late 1950's.
 During World War II, they moved to Washington and became consultants to the War Labor Board. There, they became close to Walter and Victor Reuther, the U.A.W. leaders. 
 In 1944, she moved to Detroit when the Reuthers offered her the job as head of the union's new Women's Bureau. She organized the U.A.W.'s first women's conference when a flood of returning veterans resulted in the large-scale postwar layoffs of women from factory jobs.
 From 1949 to 1954 she ran the union's radio station. She also became director of its community relations department, aligning the union behind many civil rights efforts, and from 1968 to 1976, the year she retired, she headed the union's consumer affairs department.
 Throughout her years at the union, she was active organizing, canvassing and raising money for the Democratic Party and civil rights efforts. 
 After helping create the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971, she became a leader on the Democratic Party committee that ensured that half the delegates to its 1980 convention were women. She helped propel the careers of many women in politics, including the governor of Michigan, Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat.
 Patricia Schroeder, a former United States representative from Colorado, said, ''Millie is the political godmother for many of us.''
 Ms. Jeffrey ran for only one office, when she was elected in Michigan to the board of governors of Wayne State University in Detroit. She served on the board for 16 years, including three years as its chairwoman.
 She played a major role in many groups, including the Coalition of Labor Union Women, Emily's List, Americans for Democratic Action, the National Abortion Rights League and the American Civil Liberties Union.
 She is survived by a daughter, Sharon Lehrer of San Rafael, Calif.; a son, Balfour, of Missoula, Mont.; three sisters, Arlene Swain of St. Paul, Dorothy Shabel of St. Louis and Marjorie Lapic of Seattle; and two grandchildren. 
 Three years ago, Ms. Jeffrey told a University of Minnesota magazine: ''My underlying goal was always to empower women. Get them to learn their rights, and to exercise them!'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mildred Jeffrey receiving the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Bill Clinton in a White House ceremony in 2000. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGLE PARENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); POLITICS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); PHARMACISTS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (83%); NATIONAL WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (57%)

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



129 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Think That's Expensive?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 It is most amusing that Americans are squawking at paying as much as $2.37 for a gallon of gasoline (news article, March 31). Come to England and see averages of $6 per gallon. You should consider America lucky it doesn't have to pay taxes to support a monarchy, an unelected House of Lords, a state religion, a publicly financed broadcasting network, a National Health System and so on.
 Perhaps governments everywhere should help ''oil'' their economies by reducing taxes. But that might be considered too farsighted, and that's not what government is about.

BURT KEIMACH
Market Rasen, England, April 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Burt Keimach

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2004



130 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1; ESSAY

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: The Altered Human Is Already Here

BYLINE: By JAMES GORMAN

 BODY:
In the popular imagination, the technologically altered human being is a cross between RoboCop and the Borg.
 The hardware that would make such a mating of humans, silicon chips and assorted weaponry a reality is, unfortunately, still on back order.
 Many people, however, have already made a different kind of leap into the posthuman future.
 Their jump is biochemical, mediated by proton-pump inhibitors, serotonin boosters and other drugs that have become permanent additives to many human bloodstreams.
 Over the past half century, health-conscious, well-insured, educated people in the United States and in other wealthy countries have come to take being medicated for granted. 
 More people shift to the pill-taking life every year, to the delight of pharmaceutical manufacturers. Indeed, drug sales suggest how willing people are to pursue better living through chemistry.
 Last year retail drug sales worldwide were $317 billion. In the United States alone, consumers spent $163 billion on drugs. In North America, the use of drugs that affect the central nervous system, antidepressants and others, increased 17 percent. No group has escaped. Last week the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that 10 million children took prescription medication for three months or longer in 2002, and preschoolers, another study found, are now the fastest growing group of children receiving antidepressants.
 This is a social change on the same order as the advent of computers, but one that is taking place inside the human body. Just 50 years ago, according to a report by IMS Health, a company that tracks the pharmaceutical industry, the two biggest-selling over-the-counter drugs were Bufferin and Geritol. The prescription drug business was tiny. In 1954, according to IMS, Johnson & Johnson had $204 million in revenue. Now it is about $36 billion. In 1954, Merck took in $1.5 million in drug sales; in 2002, that figure was $52 billion.
 To look at it in another way, Americans take so many drugs that some researchers -- Dr. Christian G. Daughton of the Environmental Protection Agency's National Exposure Research Laboratory in Las Vegas, for example -- are worried about the effects on the environment. What does it mean if the sewers run rich with Zoloft? Or to be more precise, what might happen to fish eggs if the rivers soak up waste water with discarded and excreted pharmaceuticals and personal care products, like shampoo?
 No one has the answer yet, but the idea that what runs through our collective bloodstream is a potential environmental hazard makes you look at your medicine cabinet in a different way. 
 In short, while the Six Million Dollar Man is still a fantasy, Pharmaceutical Man is already here, and largely unnoticed. Swallowing a pill at a business lunch is likely to elicit little curiosity. A high-powered executive who did not have blood pressure or cholesterol problems might be suspect. There are concerns about the widespread use of antidepressants, but they do not seem to have affected sales.
 In fact, the group of antidepressants that includes Zoloft is the third biggest class of pharmaceuticals by sales in the United States, totaling $11 billion in 2003.
 Drugs in the top two categories -- statins to reduce cholesterol levels and proton pump inhibitors to prevent heartburn, gastritis, ulcers and other digestive problems -- had sales of about $14 billion and $13 billion, respectively.
 Critics of the national medicine cabinet have noted that behaviors and physiological changes that were once simply aspects of life -- menopause, the inability to keep still as a child, baldness, decreasing potency in old men -- have been medicalized, turned into syndromes or diseases.
 Dr. Thomas Szasz, a psychiatrist who in the 1960's defined himself as far outside the mainstream by arguing that mental illness was a myth, recently wrote a book called ''Pharmacracy,'' about the invasive rule of medicine as it defines our lives.
 Last fall, the President's Council on Bioethics issued a report called ''Beyond Therapy: Biotechnology and the Pursuit of Happiness.'' The report included material on genetics and embryo selection, but it also addressed performance enhancement and behavioral drugs. One of its concerns was the way everything in life becomes a medical problem.
 When new technologies, including drugs, come through doctors, the report said, many aspects of life become medicalized, raising concerns that ''the pursuit of happiness and self-perfection would become part of the doctor's business.'' 
 The report also cataloged ''other aspects of human life that formerly had little to do with doctors and hospitals: childbirth, infertility, sexual mores and practices, aspects of criminal behavior, alcoholism, abnormal behavior, anxiety, stress, dementia, old age, death, grief and mourning.''
 One might argue that any extension of medicine should be welcome. The prevention of heart attacks is obviously a worthy effort. Antidepressants can ease anguish, which for many people who take them is overwhelming. In many countries of the world, people would jump at the chance to worry about having too much medicine; they don't have nearly enough of it.
 Yet some of the new miracles of the pharmaceutical industry are not intended to save lives, but to improve and prolong them. 
 Ana-Maria V. Zaugg vice president of corporate strategic planning for IMS Health, said that there were two streams of change in pharmaceutical research and use. Acute care is giving way to chronic or preventive care -- managing cholesterol levels rather than treating heart attacks, for example. At the same time, disease treatment is being extended to treatment whose goal is to increase well-being.
 Drugs for baldness, incontinence, sexual performance and the effects of menopause may be included in the latter category. Both trends are expected to increase, Ms. Zaugg said. 
 Some areas that she is confident will grow are drugs to improve male sexual performance, anti-Alzheimer's drugs, and drugs for incontinence and osteoporosis. If new psychostimulants and anti-obesity drugs appear in the future, she said, they will quickly take off. Compounds that increase intelligence and greatly improve memory will undoubtedly be best-sellers as well.
 Whether or not the growing use of drugs has altered our essential humanity, there is now almost no bodily system that cannot be adjusted by them. Blood, respiration, the nervous system, hormonal regulation, muscles and bones, the cardiovascular system, reproduction, sexuality -- drugs are available to nudge them all in one direction or the other. It is not unusual for someone to begin the day with a cocktail of antidepressants, statins and blood pressure medications.
 The result does not yet seem to be the epidemic of dull, well-managed emotionless humanity that some forecasters have worried about. For instance, among professionals in journalism and publishing in the New York metropolitan area, who no doubt take as much Zoloft per capita as anyone on the planet, it is no small trick to find someone who is either calm or happy.
 Perhaps in the future, stronger drugs will produce the well-sedated zombies that will make the streets of Times Square disturbingly docile and well mannered, but it has not happened yet.
 There are concrete results of the medicated life, however. Dr. Isaac Schiff, chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, said he found that ''most people, men and women who are in their 50's, are taking something every day.''
 He added, ''One of the reasons is that our life expectancy has changed dramatically. Our whole concept of aging is very different.''
 Dr. Schiff said that many people in their 40's and 50's ''are now taking medication to prevent diseases in their 70's.''
 In the case of osteoporosis, for example, the point of taking medication at age 50 is to prevent a hip fracture at age 75 or 80.
 What that means for medicine is that as old problems recede, new ones arise. Dr. Neal L. Benowitz, professor of medicine and chief of clinical pharmacology at the University of California at San Francisco, said that doctors had seen a shift in ''what you can expect to die from.'' There are fewer deaths from heart attack, he said, and more from congestive heart failure, cancer and Alzheimer's.
 One problem, of course, is that it is the well-off and the well educated who are most likely to take advantage of the many drugs available. Another is that need can be manufactured by advertising.
 Even children know from television that if you are sad and worried, there is a pill for you. If you have heartburn there is a pill for you. It is a lot harder to find out that there are other ways to feel better, physically and emotionally, than taking drugs.
 By and large, however, the pharmaceutical road is paved with pretty good intentions. The president's report addressed ''the pursuit of happiness.'' A similar report on the dangers of computers and other hard technology might have a different subtitle -- the pursuit of power, perhaps.
 Even the dystopian fantasies of cyborgs and the overmedicated are fundamentally different. Drugs are an easy way to contentment and the absence of pain -- even if they are ultimately unsatisfying. Hardware is something else. It enhances the senses, increases strength, adds weapons. As a cyborg, you can be your own telescope, your own computer, your own gun. 
 It may not be so bad that the pharmaceutical human is arriving first.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Hadi Farahani)(pg. F7)Chart/Diagram: ''The Body Chemical''The long-predicted marriage of the body and the silicon chip has not yet been consummated. But a different mating of biology and technology is progressing nicely, as people use a wide variety of pharmaceuticals to adjust the biochemistry they were born with.CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEMAntidepressants are taken daily by millions of people. Newer-generation drugs, most of which act on the neurotransmitter serotonin, accounted for almost $11 billion in sales in 2003. Sales of all drugs that affect the central nervous system totaled $37 billion.CARDIOVASCULARHeart and blood pressure drugs accounted for more than $28 billion in sales in the U.S. in 2003. Among these, statins, which reduce cholesterol levels, are enormously popular. Almost $14 billion worth of statins were sold in 2003.ALIMENTARY/METABOLISMProton pump inhibitors, including Prevacid and Nexium, accounted for about $13 billion in sales in 2003. All drugs in this category had sales of about $23 billion.OTHERA variety of other drugs are prescribed for conditions that were once considered simply facts of life and had no real treatment. Relatively new drugs for impotence, now known as erectile dysfunction, have sales in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Other drugs like Fosamax are designed to prevent future ailments like osteoporosis. And drugs like Propecia, for male pattern baldness, offer purely elective improvements in quality of life.(Illustration by Al Granberg)Graph: ''More Trips to the Pharmacy''Number of prescriptions dispensed in the U.S. for three classes of drugs.Figures in millions.Graph tracks the following since 1999:PAINKILLERS including OxyContin and Endocet.ANTIDEPRESSANTS including Zoloft, Prozac and Effexor.CHOLESTEROL REDUCERS including Lipitor and Zocor.(Source by IMS Health)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HUMAN EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); BIOCHEMISTRY (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); TOILETRIES MFG (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (72%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (61%); CHOLESTEROL (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (65%); IMS HEALTH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (65%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



131 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Fly the Partisan Skies

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The political divisions in this country being what they are, it's not enough that liberals and conservatives have different radio networks, different Web sites and different networks of friends. In order to eliminate all possibility of trans-partisan conversation, I really think it's time we stopped flying together. It's time to set up two different airlines: Liberal Air, with direct flights between Madison, Berkeley, Ann Arbor and the New School for Social Research; and Right Wing Express, which will have planes with no oxygen masks in case of emergencies because anybody who can't handle a little asphyxiation doesn't deserve to live.
 The way I see it, every flight on Liberal Air (motto: Your Grievances Are Our Grievances) will take off 45 minutes late, or whenever people feel like leaving, with the ensuing late arrivals blamed on Karl Rove. 
 The planes themselves will be designed by a really interesting fuselage cooperative in Oregon. Seating will be divided between coach class, working class (mostly screenwriters in flannel shirts) and faculty.
 The experience of flying on Liberal Air will be different than flying on normal airlines, and the company will be structured in different ways. For example, the frequent flier program will reward customers the less they fly, just to make things even. Airfares will be symbolic, since everything is paid for by George Soros. Pilots, who look disturbingly like Arlo Guthrie, will greet passengers at the door of the plane to apologize for the oil they are about to consume.
 After the safety teach-in, mandated by the F.A.A. (''All bike messenger bags must fit in the overhead rack . . . in case of a water landing, your moral vanity may be used as a personal flotation device . . .''), there will be an inflight entertainment program, eliciting the complete range of highly attractive liberal emotions: rage, anger, disgust, contempt, pessimism, gloom and despair. For a full hour, passengers will watch Michael Moore movies; then for the next hour they will congratulate themselves for having a nuanced view of reality.
 In addition, pilots will provide a running travel commentary over the P.A. system (''Ladies and gentlemen, if you glance out of the left side of the aircraft, you'll be able to look down on the people of Kansas''), and there will be encounter sessions for Democrats who know in their heads they had to go with Kerry but who now miss the excitement of Dean.
 Right Wing Express will have a different corporate culture. From the moment you walk into the airport (''Air traffic controllers? We don't need no stinkin' air traffic controllers!'') you will know you are in for a different experience. The special George Bush magnetometers will check for firearms, just in case someone isn't packing, and will also peer into the soul of each passenger (Good Heart . . . Evildoer . . . Good Heart . . . Evildoer).
 All passengers who pass through the membership committee will be awarded their own ''Mission Accomplished!'' flight suit. They will find the fares surprisingly affordable, especially if they fly up front, because first-class fares will have been drastically reduced in order to stimulate economic growth and the first-class meals will be especially lavish to give the hungry folks in coach an extra incentive to work hard and reform their lives.
 All Right Wing Express flights will leave exactly on time, though for national security reasons the pilots will not reveal the identity of the destination cities. The Hummer-brand planes will have ample headroom for big-hair ladies, dozens of pews with easy access to the putting greens, and drop-down TV monitors, which will show libido-crushing abstinence education videos. There will also be ample bathroom facilities for heterosexuals of both genders.
 Right Wing Express flights will not only land at airports, they will occupy airports. Passengers might sometimes find the flight attendants a tad abrasive (''You want me on that wall. You need me on that wall . . .''), but the cigarettes will be free and plentiful, and each passenger will be greeted with an appropriately conservative mantra, ''Welcome to Right Wing Express, how can I help you help yourself?''
 The purpose of having ideologically segregated airlines is obvious. For the past few years we have been happily hiving ourselves off into self-congratulatory reinforcement groups. None of us should be forced to fly with the lying, cheating, vicious dirtballs who make up the other side. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); AIR FARES (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (76%); METAL DETECTORS (76%); AIR SERVICE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LOYALTY MARKETING (70%); DRAMA LITERATURE (67%); CORPORATE CULTURE (63%); WRITERS (52%) United States Politics and Government; Conservatism (US Politics); Airlines and Airplanes; Radio; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE SOROS (58%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



132 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Asia, a Market Bubble or Still a Buy?

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, April 5 

 BODY:
J. Mark Mobius, managing director for Templeton Asset Management, has a reputation for scouring the farthest corners of the world in search of its hottest emerging markets. Late last month, Mr. Mobius was in India, looking for companies to add to the roughly $13 billion portfolio that he oversees.
 India's benchmark stock index has risen 75 percent in the last year, part of a rally in Asian equities driven by global investors trying to cash in on the booming economies of China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. With political and economic uncertainty as well as terrorism rattling financial markets worldwide, some analysts say emerging markets in Asia have become the latest investment bubble. 
 Still, fund managers including Mr. Mobius say that bargains abound in Asia's emerging markets. They agree that stock prices are due for a breather: elections in several countries and fears of terrorism have already contributed to a rocky start for the year. But fund managers say they remain confident that stock prices in Asia are likely to rise as the countries benefit from the American recovery and as consumer classes emerge in the world's two most populous countries, China and India. 
 ''Asia's where it's at in terms of growth,'' Mr. Mobius said. ''We can continue to go up, but at a slower pace.''
 Concerns that Asian markets are overinflated stem from fears that they are too dependent on exports to the United States, and that their consumer markets would wither if demand flagged. Reinforcing this view are efforts by Asia's exporting nations to prevent their currencies from rising against the dollar, which can inflate the prices of assets like stocks and property.
 Fund managers agree that this situation cannot last, and that a severe American downturn would have repercussions. But with the American economy expanding, with jobs being created and with interest rates low in much of the world, fund mangers say exports from Asian countries should continue to grow. More encouraging, they say, is that low interest rates, big trade surpluses and rising corporate profits are lifting personal incomes across Asia, stimulating consumer spending and intra-Asian trade, and gradually diminishing the region's dependence on exports to the United States.
 Because of the drop, ''Asia is looking as good as it has done in a long time,'' said William Pittman, director of Pacific investments at Henderson Global Investors in Singapore. 
 The strongest indication that Asia's emerging markets are not boiling over, experts say, is also the simplest: the price-to-earnings ratios. Stocks in the Jakarta Composite Index, the region's top-performing index over the last 12 months, are still trading at around 11 times earnings, compared with roughly 20 times for stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average.
 ''We wouldn't call it a bubble yet,'' said Nilesh Jasani, regional equities strategist at HSBC Securities Asia in Hong Kong, who advises fund managers.
 Fund managers and other experts say the low price-to-earnings ratios in Asia reflect the higher risk of investing in the developing world. But they also represent a buying opportunity. ''If it drives prices down, fine,'' said Hugh Young, managing director at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia in Singapore. ''That gets people like us excited.''
 This does not mean fund managers are uniformly bullish on Asian stocks. Their views vary widely, and from country to country.

INDONESIA -- From Jakarta, the picture looks rosy. With interest rates and inflation falling and consumer spending rising, the economy is on track to beat last year's 4 percent growth. Concerns that parliamentary elections on Monday and Indonesia's first direct presidential elections in July might produce civil unrest have so far proved unfounded. So far this year, foreign investors have bought $571 million in Indonesian stocks, and the Jakarta composite index has risen 8.5 percent. The index was up almost 70 percent in 2003.
 But regional fund managers remain cautious. ''Indonesia is riddled with corruption and has real corporate governance problems,'' Mr. Mobius said.
 Moreover, Indonesia's stock exchange is relatively small. Big foreign investments can drive the index higher, but efforts to sell can pull prices down just as fast. While most fund managers interviewed hold stocks in Indonesia's biggest companies, few are hurrying to buy more.

THAILAND -- Thailand is also experiencing strong growth. Fiscal and monetary incentives are stimulating corporate investment and domestic consumption, particularly in housing and cars.
 The average price-to-earnings ratio on the benchmark index is about 16 times earnings. Thai stocks were up around 120 percent in 2003.
 Even so, after Thailand's benchmark stock index doubled last year, foreign fund managers have been cashing in profits to keep their holdings in Thailand proportionate to the market's relative size globally.
 Foreign investors have sold $550 million in Thai stocks so far this year, and the Thai Set 50 index is down 8 percent for the year. But fund managers say it may be time to start buying. ''It's a market where we're looking for a new entry point,'' Mr. Jasani said.

MALAYSIA -- Once a pariah to international investors, Malaysia is enjoying new popularity. Analysts say much of the money that fund managers have pulled out of Thailand has gone to Malaysia.
 Demand in the United States for electronics is spurring demand for Malaysian exports, including parts shipped to China for assembly. The commodities boom and rising tourism are also helping Malaysia's economy, which is expected to grow 5.5 percent this year.
 The main index, which rose about 23 percent last year, is up 12 percent so far this year.
 What encourages investors the most, however, is an anticorruption campaign by Malaysia's new prime minister, Abdullah Ahmad Badawi. The influential California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, recently reinstated Malaysia to its list of countries suitable for investment, something it has yet to extend to India, Indonesia or the Philippines.

CHINA -- The only market where shares are overvalued, fund managers say, is China's market for A shares, which are reserved for domestic investors and a handful of foreign institutions.
 Foreign fund managers prefer to buy shares of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong, which generally have lower price-to-earnings ratios. ''We run a $400 million to $500 million China fund and don't have a single domestic-listed stock,'' Mr. Young said. 
 Still, vast pools of cheap labor continue to draw huge amounts of foreign direct investment, pushing up urban incomes and supporting demand for consumer products.
 So far this year, the Shanghai A shares are up around 18 percent. In Shenzhen, the A shares are up 23 percent this year.

INDIA -- The same phenomenon is happening in India, fund managers say, with the flood of jobs being outsourced to the country fueling demand for consumer items.
 ''India offers the same economic potential as China, with a lot less of the uncertainty,'' Mr. Young said. ''India has a vibrant shareholder democracy.'' Even as Mr. Mobius was scouring India for investments last month, Mr. Young was preparing to return to Britain to help sell investors on a new India fund that Aberdeen established. 
 Yet after nearly doubling last year, the Mumbai Sensex 30 index is essentially flat so far this year as fund managers hedge their bets before elections this spring. ''We feel that in the pre-election period and after the election we are going to be hostage to many extraordinary factors,'' Mr. Jasani said
 To some extent, he said, investors have become too optimistic about India's potential not to be disappointed. ''Risk is only on the downside,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Investors trade on a small trading floor in January in Shanghai. Foreign fund managers prefer to buy shares of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong
many do not own domestic-listed stock. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. W1)
 A floor trader in Thailand, where fiscal and monetary incentives are stimulating corporate investment and domestic consumption. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- by Getty Images)(pg. W7)Chart: ''Rally in Asia''The booming markets of several Asian countries - bolstered by consumer spending and trade growth among other Asian countries and abroad - have drawn the attention of global investors.Graph tracks the following Asian markets (plotted weekly) from March 2003 through March 2004:THAILAND -- BANGKOK SETINDIA -- MUMBAI SENSEX 30INDONESIA -- JAKARTA COMPOSITEMALAYSIA -- KUALA LUMPUR COMPOSITE INDEXCHINA -- SHANGHAI A-SHARE INDEX(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); TRENDS (77%); BONDS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TERRORISM (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (77%) EAST CHINA (92%) ASIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); THAILAND (93%); INDONESIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China; India

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



133 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Service Industries Index Climbs to a Record

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
A gauge of service industries rose unexpectedly sharply to a record in March as orders and employment climbed, and a quarterly survey of chief executives showed that their confidence in the economy is the highest in more than 20 years, reports released yesterday showed.
 The Institute for Supply Management's index of financial services, construction, retail and other nonmanufacturing enterprises rose to 65.8 in March from 60.8 the month before, exceeding the previous record of 65.7 in January. 
 Economists had expected the index to rise to 61.5. Readings higher than 50 indicate expansion in the report, which started in 1997. 
 The measure of services industries, which was higher than all 54 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, builds on the government report Friday that the economy added 308,000 jobs last month, all of them in nonmanufacturing businesses.
 The reports have some investors contemplating whether the Federal Reserve will increase interest rates and some economists considering whether to raise their projections of growth for the second quarter.
 ''This is a very strong report -- it's confirmation of the big rise in payrolls we saw on Friday, and it's a sign that consumers are spending,'' said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New York.
 In a separate report, the Conference Board's index of business confidence rose to 73 in the first quarter, from 66 in last year's final three months.
 The reading was the highest since 74 in the last quarter of 1983. Half of the more than 100 chief executives surveyed said they expected to hire more workers this year.
 The purchasing managers' report showed that its index of prices paid, a measure of costs for purchased materials and services, surged to 65.7 from 57.3 in February. The increase was the biggest since the index began in August 1997. Sixteen out of 17 industry groups reported increased costs.
 ''The prices-paid component may start to ring some inflation alarm bells, which is a theme that's going to gather momentum as we go along this year,'' Mr. Low said.
 Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn., said, ''The vigor of the economic recovery extends beyond the manufacturing sector.'' 
 ''The stage has been set for a re-acceleration'' in the second quarter, he said, to an annual growth rate of about 5.5 percent from about 4 percent at an annual pace from January through March.
 The survey's employment index rose to 53.9 from 52.7, the sixth consecutive month of growth. The group's March manufacturing survey, released on Thursday, showed the highest employment index since December 1987. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTEREST RATES (68%) United States Economy; Records and Achievements; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Service Industries

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Institute for Supply Management

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



134 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The Mercury Scandal

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
If you want a single example that captures why so many people no longer believe in the good intentions of the Bush administration, look at the case of mercury pollution.
 Mercury can damage the nervous system, especially in fetuses and infants -- which is why the Food and Drug Administration warns pregnant women and nursing mothers against consuming types of fish, like albacore tuna, that often contain high mercury levels. About 8 percent of American women have more mercury in their bloodstreams than the Environmental Protection Agency considers safe.
 During the 1990's, government regulation greatly reduced mercury emissions from medical and municipal waste incineration, leaving power plants as the main problem. In 2000, the E.P.A. determined that mercury is a hazardous substance as defined by the Clean Air Act, which requires that such substances be strictly controlled. E.P.A. staff estimated that enforcing this requirement would lead to a 90 percent reduction in power-plant mercury emissions by 2008. 
 A few months ago, however, the Bush administration reversed this determination and proposed a ''cap and trade'' system for mercury that it claimed would lead to a 70 percent reduction by 2018. Other estimates suggest that the reduction would be smaller, and take longer.
 For some pollutants, setting a cap on total emissions, while letting polluters buy and sell emission rights, is a cost-efficient way to reduce pollution. The cap-and-trade system for sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain, has been a big success. But the science clearly shows that cap-and-trade is inappropriate for mercury.
 Sulfur dioxide is light, and travels long distances: power plants in the Midwest can cause acid rain in Maine. So a cap on total national emissions makes sense. Mercury is heavy: much of it precipitates to the ground near the source. As a result, coal-fired power plants in states like Pennsylvania and Michigan create ''hot spots'' -- chemical Chernobyls -- where the risks of mercury poisoning are severe. Under a cap-and-trade system, these plants are likely to purchase pollution rights rather than cut emissions. In other words, the administration proposal would perpetuate mercury pollution where it does the most harm. That probably means thousands of children born with preventable neurological problems.
 So how did the original plan get replaced with a plan so obviously wrong on the science?
 The answer is that the foxes have been put in charge of the henhouse. The head of the E.P.A.'s Office of Air and Radiation, like most key environmental appointees in the Bush administration, previously made his living representing polluting industries (which, in case you haven't guessed, are huge Republican donors). On mercury, the administration didn't just take industry views into account, it literally let the polluters write the regulations: much of the language of the administration's proposal came directly from lobbyists' memos. 
 E.P.A. experts normally study regulations before they are issued, but they were bypassed. According to The Los Angeles Times: ''E.P.A. staffers say they were told not to undertake the normal scientific and economic studies called for under a standing executive order. . . . E.P.A. veterans say they cannot recall another instance where the agency's technical experts were cut out of developing a major regulatory proposal.''
 Mercury is just a particularly vivid example of what's going on in environmental protection, and public policy in general. As a devastating article in Sunday's New York Times Magazine documented, the administration's rollback of the Clean Air Act has gone beyond the polluters' wildest dreams. 
 And the corruption of the policy process -- in which political appointees come in with a predetermined agenda, and technical experts who might present information their superiors don't want to hear are muzzled -- has infected every area I know anything about, from tax cuts to matters of war and peace.
 A Yawngate update: CNN called me to insist that despite what it first said, the administration really, truly wasn't responsible for the network's claim that David Letterman's embarrassing video of a Bush speech was a fake. I still don't understand why the network didn't deny White House involvement until it retracted the charge. But the main point of Friday's column was to highlight the way CNN facilitated crude administration smears of Richard Clarke. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (91%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); AIR QUALITY (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); ACID RAIN (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); WOMEN (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (75%); DEREGULATION (74%); BREASTFEEDING (72%); POISONINGS (72%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (70%) Air Pollution; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Mercury (Metal); Electric Light and Power; Coal; Factories and Industrial Plants; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



135 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Where Plays Escape The Curse of the Unseen

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., April 4 

 BODY:
Gina Gionfriddo, a 34-year-old playwright, is unknown to theatergoers, though her name is familiar to dramaturges and artistic directors at regional theaters around the country. Her work has circulated among them, and she has had some financial support. In 2002 her play ''U.S. Drag'' won the Susan Smith Blackburn Prize, a privately endowed award given annually to the finest play written by a woman in English. But that play, a comedy about two young women in the city, has been produced only Off Off Broadway and at the University of Connecticut. 
 ''It seems to be the play that everybody says they admire but nobody wants to do,'' she said.
 In fact, until now Ms. Gionfriddo has never had a full-fledged production of any of her plays, which is why she is emerging from the Humana Festival of New American Plays here as a genuine discovery. 
 Her shrewd, dark comedy, ''After Ashley,'' was the consensus favorite among the critics, agents and theater professionals who gathered for the final full weekend of the 28th annual festival at the Actors Theater of Louisville.
 Ms. Gionfriddo's story raises the question of how many other worthy plays and playwrights exist under the public radar. As many people at the festival attested, there always seems to be a stratum of plays just below the surface, waiting their turn in an environment that can economically accommodate a limited number of new works. Ask the question one way -- Are there a lot of good plays out there that are not being produced? -- and the answer from many people is a vigorous yes.
 But the situation is a bit more complicated. 
 Many regional theaters, like the Actors Theater of Louisville, have stopped reading unsolicited scripts from unrepresented writers. The reason is financial: it takes time, and the rewards are rare. Even so, the theaters receive hundreds of plays for consideration every year from writers' agents, meaning there are quite a number of scripts out there that have passed through at least one level of professional scrutiny. 
 Still, as most readers of scripts agree, less than 10 percent of submissions are worth reading all the way through. 
 ''There are some plays out there,'' said Edward Sobel, literary manager of Steppenwolf Theater in Chicago. ''But it's not like it's a crisis.''
 Marc Masterson, artistic director of Humana, said that the Actors Theater received 500 to 700 submissions for this year's festival, but that the short list consisted of only about 30. Many unselected plays on the short list are likely to be given productions elsewhere in the next couple of seasons, said Mr. Masterson, who also directed ''After Ashley.''
 The point is that talent is rare enough that it tends not to stay hidden. Those 30 or so plays make the rounds; they are the ones by writers like Ms. Gionfriddo, who have been sending around manuscripts for a while and have been touted by their teachers at the important playwriting departments at Juilliard, Brown, New York University, Iowa, Carnegie-Mellon, Yale and the University of California, San Diego. 
 ''There's probably always someone who gets missed,'' said Blanka Zizka, the artistic director of the Wilma Theater in Philadelphia. ''The bigger problem is the people who are reading them'' -- meaning that innovative or experimental work might be passed over by those who are unattuned to youthful language or the issues confronting ethnic populations, or simply concerned with a subscription audience that is less interested in abrasive or forward-looking work than in comforting, conventional narratives.
 The opening scene of Ms. Gionfriddo's play, rife with exquisite two-handed banter, was undoubtedly the highlight of the weekend, landing among the audience like a surprise guest at a dinner party. In it a 35-year-old mother, unhappy in her marriage and bored, is lovingly but inappropriately using her precocious 14-year-old son as a confidant.
 The scene defines an unusual relationship with hilarity and skill and, as performed here by Carla Harting and Jesse Hooker, with great warmth. But it's not until later that we understand how craftily we have been prepared for the rest of this absorbing and wholly unpredictable play, which takes place three years later and focuses on the cultural exploitation of private grief.
 ''After Ashley'' is a work that virtually any audience would find accessible, which gives it an advantage in a largely commercial market.
 ''You know, it's not really the same 25 or 30 plays making the rounds, because the tastes and needs vary from theater to theater and season to season,'' said Michelle Volansky, the dramaturge at the Philadelphia Theater Company, which originally commissioned ''After Ashley.'' Ms. Volansky, who said she reads 400 to 600 plays every year, noted that a lot of plays that might be worth reading disqualify themselves for production because ''they have 75 characters, half a dozen sets and require you to cast a Mexican dwarf, or else they're so experimental that you can't see them as having a future in front of an audience.''
 Many people here said the problem was not so much finding playwrights and plays but developing them. Scripts require productions so they can then be revised and improved. But in the current system, they can't be produced unless they are improved first.
 ''There are tons of plays out there,'' said B. J. Jones, artistic director of the Northlight Theater in Skokie, Ill., ''but whether they're producible is another question. What we really need are more opportunities for things that are on the way, works still in the incubator stage.''
 One reason this year's festival was successful was that it illustrated the gamut of what developmental theater can do. In addition to ''After Ashley,'' it featured two plays by writers in their 20's: ''Kid Simple'' by Jordan Harrison, a kind of comic book come to life that makes innovative use of sound effects, and ''Sans-Culottes in the Promised Land'' by Kirsten Greenidge, a surreal fable in which versions of the black American dream collide. Both plays are showcases for the colossal imaginations of the playwrights, and both plays dissolve into a welter of confusing language and imagery, indicating that the writers have yet to focus their energies for the sake of storytelling clarity. 
 Also featured was ''The Ruby Sunrise'' by Rinne Groff, a New York playwright whose promising body of work is marked by an attraction to arcane milieus. She has written about mathematicians and magicians; this play is about the history of television, and it invents, ingeniously, a young woman who was developing television on her own in a barn in the Midwest at the same time as RCA. 
 Finally, the festival has also extended its relationships with the playwrights Naomi Iizuka and Melanie Marnich, both now in midcareer.
 Ms. Iizuka's ''At the Vanishing Point,'' a festival commission, is a series of monologues from generations of Louisvillians who lived in what is known as Butchertown, a section of the city that was once a meatpacking center. A site-specific work performed in a former meat warehouse, the play is often touchingly written and beautifully acted, but it follows a meandering narrative path, and its geometry, in the end, is rickety, too delicate to withstand scrutiny. 
 Ms. Marnich's play, ''Tallgrass Gothic,'' is about lust and the havoc it wreaks on a young woman in a tiny town; the production has a fine, prairie-ish set and a very sexy opening. But as directed by Mr. Masterson, it never generates the monumental passions it purports to be about.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jesse Hooker and Carla Harting in ''After Ashley'' by Gina Gionfriddo, at the Humana Festival of New American Plays. (Photo by Harlan Taylor)(pg. E1)
 At the Humana Festival in Kentucky: Lia Aprile and Jesse Lenat, left, in ''Tallgrass Gothic,'' and Kibibi Dillon and Leon Addison Brown in ''Sans-Culottes in the Promised Land.'' (Photographs by Harlan Taylor)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (94%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); LITERARY AGENTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); WOMEN (77%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%)

PERSON: Gina Gionfriddo; Bruce Weber

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%) Louisville (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



136 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Remember Rwanda, but Take Action in Sudan

BYLINE: By Samantha Power. 
Samantha Power is the author of ''A Problem From Hell: America and the Age of Genocide,'' which won the 2003 Pulitzer Prize for general nonfiction.

 BODY:
Ten years ago this week, Rwandan Hutu extremists embarked on a genocidal campaign in which they murdered some 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus -- a genocide more efficient than that of the Nazis.
 On this anniversary, Western and United Nations leaders are expressing their remorse and pledging their resolve to prevent future humanitarian catastrophes. But as they do so, the Sudanese government is teaming up with Arab Muslim militias in a campaign of ethnic slaughter and deportation that has already left nearly a million Africans displaced and more than 30,000 dead. Again, the United States and its allies are bystanders to slaughter, seemingly no more prepared to prevent genocide than they were a decade ago. 
 The horrors in the Darfur region of Sudan are not ''like'' Rwanda, any more than those in Rwanda were ''like'' those ordered by Hitler. The Arab-dominated government in Khartoum has armed nomadic Arab herdsmen, or Janjaweed, against rival African tribes. The government is using aerial bombardment to strafe villages and terrorize civilians into flight. And it is denying humanitarian access to some 700,000 people who are trapped in Darfur.
 The Arab Muslim marauders and their government sponsors do not yet seem intent on exterminating every last African Muslim in their midst. But they do seem determined to wipe out black life in the region. The only difference between Rwanda and Darfur, said Mukesh Kapila, the former United Nations' humanitarian coordinator for Sudan, ''is the numbers of dead, murdered, tortured, raped.''
 A radio exchange between a Sudanese ground commander and a pilot overhead (taped by a British journalist in February) captures the aims of the attackers:
 Commander: We've found people still in the village.
 Pilot: Are they with us or against us?
 Commander: They say they will work with us.
 Pilot: They're liars. Don't trust them. Get rid of them.
 And later:
 Pilot: Now the village is empty and secure for you. Any village you pass through you must burn. That way, when the villagers come back they'll have a surprise waiting for them.
 The lessons of Rwanda are many. The first is that those intent on wiping out an inconvenient minority have a habit of denying journalists and aid workers access and of pursuing bad-faith negotiations. Thus far the Sudanese government has pursued both approaches, and Western officials have been far too trusting of their assurances.
 A second lesson is that outside powers cannot wait for confirmation of genocide before they act. In 1994 the Clinton administration spent more time maneuvering to avoid using the term ''genocide'' than it did using its resources to save lives. In May 1994, an internal Pentagon memo warned against using the term ''genocide'' because it could commit the United States ''to actually do something.'' In the case of Sudan, American officials need not focus on whether the killings meet the definition of genocide set by the 1948 Genocide Convention; they should focus instead on trying to stop them.
 A third lesson is that even when the United States decides not to respond militarily, American leadership is indispensable. This is especially true because Europe continues to avoid intervening in violent humanitarian crises. And it remains true despite the Bush administration's unpopularity abroad. The United States often takes an all-or-nothing approach: if it doesn't send troops, it tends to foreclose other policy options.
 In Sudan, this tendency has been compounded by the administration's reluctance to risk undermining the peace process it has spearheaded between Sudan's government and the rebels in the south. While President Bush is understandably eager to show he can make peace as well as war, he must stand up to Sudan's government during these difficult negotiations.
 After all, regimes that resort to ethnic killing and deportation as a tool of statecraft rarely keep their word. An important predictor of Sudan's reliability as an ally in the war on terrorism and as a party to the American-brokered peace accord is its treatment of African Muslims in Darfur.
 What would standing up to Sudan entail? The administration has several options.
 On the economic and diplomatic front, the United States has already demonstrated its clout in Sudan, which is desperate to see American sanctions lifted. So far, Secretary of State Colin Powell has rightly described the humanitarian crisis as a ''catastrophe.'' But the White House and the Pentagon have been mostly mute. President Bush must use American leverage to demand that the government in Khartoum cease its aerial attacks, terminate its arms supplies to the Janjaweed and punish those militia accused of looting, rape and murder. The president made a phone call last week to Sudan's president, Omar Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir, but one ritual conversation hardly counts as pressure. Mr. Bush should keep calling until humanitarian workers and investigators are permitted free movement in the region, a no-fly zone is declared and the killings are stopped, and he should dispatch Mr. Powell to the Chad-Sudan border to signal America's resolve.
 The Bush administration can't do this alone. Ten thousand international peacekeepers are needed in Darfur. President Bush will have to press Sudan to agree to a United Nations mission -- and he will also need United Nations member states to sign on. The Europeans can help by urging the Security Council to refer the killings to the newly created International Criminal Court. Though the United States has been hostile to the court, this is one move it should not veto, as an investigation by the court could deter future massacres.
 President Clinton has said that one of the greatest mistakes of his presidency was not doing more to prevent the Rwandan genocide. When he visited Rwanda in 1998, he tried to explain America's failure to respond: ''It may seem strange to you here, especially the many of you who lost members of your family, but all over the world there were people like me sitting in offices, day after day after day, who did not fully appreciate the depth and the speed with which you were being engulfed by this unimaginable terror.''
 Today, roughly 1,000 miles north of Rwanda, tens of thousands of Africans are herded onto death marches, and Western leaders are again sitting in offices. How sad it is that it doesn't even seem strange.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Joseph Hart) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHNIC CONFLICTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (86%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); TORTURE (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); DEPORTATION (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); BAD FAITH (66%); POLITICS (60%) Freedom and Human Rights; News and News Media; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; Hutu Tribe; Tutsi Tribe; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Politics and Government; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Immigration and Refugees; Deportation

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) United Nations

PERSON: SAMANTHA POWER (58%) Samantha Power; George W (Pres) Bush; Omar Hassan Al- (Pres) Bashir

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) SUDAN (98%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%) Sudan; Rwanda; Sudan

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



137 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: In Study, Most Companies Reported No Taxes

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Nearly two-thirds of the companies operating in the United States reported owing no taxes from 1996 through 2000, according to a recent government study.
 Foreign companies doing business here were more likely than American-based ones to claim they owed no taxes, according to the report released late Friday by the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress. 
 Among American corporations, an average of 6 in 10 reported no tax liabilities on their United States income tax returns filed for the five years from 1996 through 2000, the study found. The percentage of American companies saying they owed nothing increased steadily but slightly in the period, to 63 percent in 2000 from 60.3 percent in 1996. 
 By contrast, among foreign companies doing business here, 71 percent reported no tax liabilities for each of the five years surveyed. In that period, the percentage of foreign companies claiming no United States tax liabilities rose to 73.3 percent in 2000 from 67.6 percent in 1996.
 The study was based on an analysis of Internal Revenue Service data on taxpayer returns from companies across a variety of industries. It was prepared in response to requests by some members of Congress to explore whether companies, in particular foreign-controlled ones, are illegitimately lowering their tax bills.
 The study said that age and size differences among companies could account for some discrepancy. Foreign companies doing business here tend to be younger, and thus have greater tax-deductible expenses. But the study also suggested that the use of tax shelters was a factor. 
 Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said in a statement on Friday that the study showed that loopholes in the tax code ''enable foreign-based companies to move billions of dollars in profit overseas, on income generated in the United States.''
 Still, some tax experts said yesterday that the study offered a misleading view of tax avoidance. 
 Chris Edwards, director for fiscal policy studies at the Cato Institute, a research group in Washington that favors reduced government spending, said the study overstated the percentage of nontaxpaying companies because it computed tax liabilities relative to a company's total income, not to its net profit or earnings. 
 Total income, he said, does not take into account what he called normal and often-significant corporate deductions, like salaries and interest. 
 Daniel J. Mitchell, a tax policy expert at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy and research organization in Washington, said yesterday that an undefined number of companies in the study legitimately did not pay taxes because they did not have any taxable profits, because of cyclical and economic fluctuations. 
 ''Having said that,'' he said, ''there's no question that we have all sorts of complicated provisions in the tax code that make it very easy for clever lawyers and accountants to structure a company's affairs that makes it easier for them to avoid taxes.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ACCOUNTING (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%) Taxation; Corporations

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%) General Accounting Office

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (57%) Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



138 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Security Rules Tie Foreigners With Red Tape

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Gabriella A. Barschdorff, a vice president for strategic investment at J. P. Morgan Chase in New York, is not exactly the huddled-masses type. But one rainy day last week, shortly before 7 a.m., she joined the long, bedraggled line of immigrants standing outside 26 Federal Plaza in downtown Manhattan. There she took the spot held for her by a young man she had hired to camp out in his sleeping bag.
 It was all part of a last-ditch bid to get her formal travel document, a paper that, as a legal foreign worker with a pending green card application, she badly needed. If she failed, she would miss a business meeting in London. If she went without the permit, she risked being barred from coming back to America.
 Ms. Barschdorff, who is Swedish, is one of thousands of skilled foreign professionals working legally in the United States who find themselves virtual prisoners of a ballooning immigration-services backlog. In the last year, the mostly routine paperwork they need to work and travel has slowed to a crawl. 
 Processing times -- for everything from renewing an annual work permit to securing permanent legal residency -- have as much as quadrupled over the last 18 months, despite the Bush administration's pledge to cut waiting times in half. The wait to replace a lost green card, for instance, has grown to 19 months from four. And the kind of paperwork sought by Ms. Barschdorff -- a document allowing her to re-enter the country after a brief trip -- now takes seven months instead of two.
 As a consequence, and despite an infusion of $160 million earmarked for cutting the backlog, the number of pending applications has risen by nearly 60 percent over the last three years, to 6.2 million, according to a recent congressional report. The root cause, officials say, is the post-9/11 reassignment of 1,000 agents who used to issue documents and now do extensive security checks of every applicant instead.
 The fallout ranges from inconveniences to wrenching dilemmas.
 There is Christopher B. Murray, for example, the manager of nano-scale research for I.B.M., who had to decide whether to rush to his mother's side when his father died in Nova Scotia last week, or battle for an emergency travel document to replace the one that he had applied to renew last year. And there is William Powell, an American journalist for Fortune magazine, and his Chinese wife, Joyce Cui, who spent most of her pregnancy agonizing over whether she should go back to Beijing to give birth near her family. Because she had applied for a green card, she risked being barred from the United States if she left before her travel documents came through; if she stayed, she risked going into labor alone in New York when he was reassigned to China.
 ''The delays in processing some of these cases have clearly been as a result of moving so many of our employees, especially in the service centers, into security checks,'' said William R. Yates, associate director of operations for Citizenship and Immigration Services, in Homeland Security. ''We don't apologize. We have identified a number of persons who represented a threat to the United States.''
 But he added, ''Everything else has suffered, unfortunately.''
 Mr. Yates reiterated the commitment to cut the backlog by September 2006. But there is little optimism among many international businesses and institutions struggling with the problem on behalf of 700,000 foreign employees based in the United States.
 The new obstacles and delays, business leaders say, are already hurting their ability to recruit and keep the best talent worldwide.
 ''There are key people who are unable to work, unable to close the gaps in their status,'' said Mr. Murray, adding that his recruitment of foreign researchers at Harvard and M.I.T. had been damaged. ''It puts the U.S. at a serious disadvantage.''
 Processing delays force employers to file costly multiple petitions just to keep an employee and dependents in legal status, complained Lynn Shotwell, director of the American Council on International Personnel, a Washington organization for 250 corporations and institutions that want to ease the movement of personnel. 
 The council has protested a Bush administration plan to impose higher processing fees to finance the hiring of additional personnel. 
 One of the regional offices most beset with delays is the Vermont Service Center, which handles applications from New York and other Northeastern states. Mr. Yates, the domestic security official, said the office, in St. Albans, stopped issuing non-emergency travel documents for several months this winter because it ran out of security paper with the department's new logo.
 The overflow spilled into district offices like 26 Federal Plaza. In theory, after waiting 90 days for a work permit to be renewed by mail, for example, an applicant can have one issued in person, the same day. But in practice, only 100 are given out daily. 
 Such problems played out last week when Ms. Barschdorff, 33, passed through the metal detectors at 26 Federal Plaza. She wanted to renew her annual work permit and to get the document that would let her travel safely to London and back to her 1-year-old American daughter.
 For her, the last best hope was the young man with the sleeping bag, Kendo McDonald. Mr. McDonald, 28, has worked for a decade as a trusted ''runner,'' shepherding documents and now clients for the international immigration law firm of Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy. He has his own measure of how much worse the backlog grew in the last year.
 ''Before I didn't have to do this 3-o'clock-in-the-morning thing,'' he said, rainwater still dripping from his jacket. ''I could come at 8 a.m.''
 After vetting Ms. Barschdorff's documents, and those of two other clients, Mr. McDonald guided them into the netherworld of federal bureaucracy. Ms. Barschdorff would spend the next nine and a half hours there, in a labyrinth of lines and waiting rooms.
 The two other clients asked that their names not be published, worried that publicity could hurt their pending green card applications. One was a 33-year-old computer scientist at I.B.M. who left India eight years ago to earn a doctorate at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He said he had risen at 3 a.m. to make it from his home in Mohegan Lake, where his wife and 5-month-old American-born daughter were sleeping. The other man described himself as a ''denim consultant'' who was born in Zimbabwe but had lived for years in London before moving to New York six years ago to work for the fashion designer Calvin Klein.
 Together with Ms. Barschdorff, who previously worked at the European Parliament in Brussels and has degrees from Columbia and the London School of Economics, the trio almost typified the mobility of an international class of go-getters whose cosmopolitan careers help make New York a global hub of finance, science and design. Both men were being sponsored for green cards by employers, as ''aliens of extraordinary ability'' -- a phrase ''that makes people think of E.T.,'' Ms. Barschdorff joked. But without the work permit renewals they needed, they could be left without paychecks. 
 Mr. McDonald warned Ms. Barschdorff that renewing two documents at once might be impossible. The waiting room for one was on the eighth floor, the other on the ninth. 
 There are plans for every waiting room to adopt a number system like the one used by busy New York delis, Mr. McDonald said, but for now, after turning in papers to one of the window agents, applicants just have to wait until they are summoned by name. The typical wait is four to six hours, he said. And if Ms. Barschdorff ran up and down between waiting rooms, she would risk missing one or both calls.
 But Mr. McDonald helped her manage the juggling act, and smoothed the way when her paperwork seemed deficient. J.P. Morgan was paying $1,500 for the law firm's work to renew Ms. Barschdorff's employment authorization card alone, she said.
 Many in the room were fending for themselves. The line that snaked through the ninth-floor waiting room included a Polish construction worker, a Nigerian nurse, and a turbaned chef from India. Only the chef, Manjit Singh, 42, would give his name after explaining that his boss was sponsoring him because of his skill at making curry for a restaurant on Union Turnpike in Queens.
 Some were turned away, but after nearly 10 hours, Ms. Barschdorff emerged triumphant. She had gained both the right to travel and another year's work authorization. Her two companions had their work permits, too. Mr. McDonald was headed back to Queens for a few hours' sleep before doing it all over again.
 ''Even though I absolutely despise this bureaucracy,'' Ms. Barschdorff said, ''at the end of the day you can come to America.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gabriella A. Barschdorff waited in line last week outside immigration district offices at 26 Federal Plaza. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''Waiting It Out With Immigration''The office of Citizenship and Immigration Services has seen increases in the processing time for immigrant applications despite its goal to cut the backlog to six months or less.Application: I-485 -- To adjust statusAverage processing time, in monthsFiscal Year2002 -- Goal: 102002 -- Actual*: 132003 -- Goal: 62003: Actual*: 33Application: I-90 -- To replace a green cardAverage processing time, in monthsFiscal Year2002 -- Goal: 12002 -- Actual*: 192003 -- Goal: 32003: Actual*: 4Application: I-131 -- Travel documentAverage processing time, in monthsFiscal Year2002 -- Goal: 22002 -- Actual*: 32003 -- Goal: 12003: Actual*: 7*Fiscal years are October to September
 2003 figures are projected.(Source by General Accounting Office)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WEATHER (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (75%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); BUDGETS (70%); CITIZENSHIP (69%); JOURNALISM (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); TERRORISM (62%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%); WRITERS (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Labor; Travel Restrictions; Immigration and Refugees; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Residence Requirements; Immigration and Refugees

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%) Citizenship and Immigration Services

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Nina Bernstein; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (65%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (51%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (51%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



139 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; CITYWIDE

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Now Shaping Minds, Instead of Buildings

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Somebody once thought it fitting that the high school named after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. look more like a bunker or a warehouse than a place of learning. Its rough block and rusted-over steel facade seem hardly welcoming, despite the faint ''United We Stand'' that lingers in huge sticky tape outlines on the windows overlooking Amsterdam Avenue.
 ''They used to call it the brutalist era,'' said Richard Kahan as he glanced up at the building. ''Hard, tough materials. It wasn't about being pretty.''
 He said it almost as an afterthought, out of habit, perhaps. Mr. Kahan was once the head of the state's Urban Development Corporation, conceiving and managing gargantuan projects like Roosevelt Island, Battery Park City and the Javits Center. After decades of putting up buildings for city people, he is now preparing people for cities. 
 Mr. Kahan, 58, has taken up the cause of establishing smaller, theme-based public high schools around the city, helping educators reimagine not only their lesson plans, but also the function of those old, big high schools as they gradually house several smaller academies each. At King, he will place a school for media studies, one of five schools he is setting up in the city next September.
 Almost by accident, he has gone from being someone once comfortable with the bare knuckles and back rooms of New York City development to someone who simply says: it is not about the building, but what happens inside.
 ''There's no doubt I get more out of this than seeing the Javits Center or Times Square built to our plan,'' he said. ''Even when I was building, it was a rare occasion that I could see a direct result on a human being. But I can go to a ninth grader and know if I did my job properly.
 ''Cost overrun in construction is one thing,'' he continued. ''Letting a kid down is something altogether different.''
 His own re-education started in the 1990's, when residents of the South Bronx opposed plans to build a new courthouse complex on 161st Street. Mr. Kahan, who was no longer at the development corporation, but was advising the Bronx borough president on redevelopment plans for the area, helped negotiate a solution by including a high school in the complex. The school made sense, since the plans he was working on called for more community involvement in determining the neighborhood's future economic and housing development.
 The school, the High School for Law Government and Justice, became a reality under New Visions, part of an independent fund that set up smaller theme schools. Mr. Kahan went on to other projects, notably Take the Field, which provides up-to-date athletic fields for public schools. Soon, the principal at one of the schools with a new field suggested that it would go well with a school for careers in sports. 
 By last year, he had set up four schools. They operate under the umbrella of the Urban Assembly, a nonprofit organization that he co-founded.
 In many ways, his decision to focus on starting new schools dates to his years at Columbia Law School during the social upheaval of the late 1960's. He recalls how a course in poverty law raised the question, what does one change to improve life in the inner city: jobs, schools, housing or welfare?
 ''If you could only do one thing, what would be most important?'' he said. ''At the end of the day, if you change education, you change everything else.''
 That could explain why he decided last year to aim to set up five schools a year. He says his efforts -- mostly under a program to phase out the factories some of the big schools had become -- are not too far a stretch from those of his building days.
 ''You have to get this up to numbers where you are serving people,'' he said. ''When I was with the U.D.C., we kept quality and size while managing 30 projects around the state.''
 What he envisions is a network of schools where teachers and principals share ideas and encouragement. He wants the students, in turn, to explore the city beyond their neighborhoods, which at times seems as distant as the other side of the globe. The themes, he said, allow for that to happen by enlisting professionals in business, the arts or culture.
 ''It is not so much to channel the children into careers, but connecting to the outside world,'' he said. ''You want to excite children about education and expose them to a world they rarely see.''
 The Urban Assembly Academy for History and Citizenship, in the Bronx, aims to expose its all-male student body to an elusive image: that of ambitious, confident young men committed to their city and to themselves. Jonathan Foy and Kamau Patterson, the school's founders, once taught history in Harlem before they went off to the suburbs for a while. But their plans to resume their educational partnership in the city took form last year when they met Mr. Kahan at a reception. 
 The two see history and citizenship as topics once rendered near invisible by educational fads. But they are serious about using it as a tool to inspire teenage boys grappling with how to fit into the world.
 ''History allows you to know yourself,'' said Mr. Patterson, who is partial to dreadlocks and rites of passage that encompass poetry, literature and the arts. ''History exposes you to another generation's issues.''
 They hope the school will help boys become men, a concept that has frayed in some urban communities. They have taken their pitch to various schools in the city, hoping to find 100 young men to enroll as ''scholars'' in the new school.
 ''The media definitions of manhood are those of youth culture,'' Mr. Patterson said. ''The man is the hard rock, knucklehead, player or thug. Within the community there is the daily struggle over that being forced down their throats every day. The struggle between an image that is so popularized and another that has no acknowledgement.''
 Naomi Barber, who once led the New Visions program and later helped the two prepare their successful proposal, said she was confident that their academy would succeed. Part of the reason, she said, was the sheer force of Mr. Kahan's personality, which can be a potent force. After all, this is a man who can climb icy mountainsides. For fun, even.
 ''He's a bruiser; he's a developer,'' she said. ''He understands how the world works; he understands how to get things done. He's not intimidated by any bureaucracy.'' 
 Though he says it is not about the building, part of him knows that the current crisis in education -- whether it is unequal financing or inadequate instruction -- has part of its problem in buildings: the neighborhood, not the school.
 ''The most undemocratic thing about America is, the tax base where you are born can affect your entire life,'' he said. ''You can predict if you are born in a poor community your likelihood of ending up a doctor or lawyer is slim. That is the antithesis of democracy and equality. We're trying to level the field a bit. Or a lot.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Kahan, once head of the state Urban Development Corporation, is now focusing his efforts on setting up small theme-based public high schools across the city.
 Jonathan Foy, center, and Kamau Patterson, teachers and founders of a new academy for boys, recruited students yesterday at the Learning Tree in the Bronx. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



140 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 3117 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Times Wins 5 Pulitzer Prizes and Wall Street Journal Wins 2

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
The Los Angeles Times won five Pulitzer Prizes yesterday, dominating this year's competition with writing that included editorials, automobile reviews and breaking news coverage of the wildfires that devastated Southern California last fall. 
 The five prizes were the second-highest number of awards won by a newspaper since the awards were first given in 1917. The New York Times won seven in 2002, mostly on the strength of its reporting of the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Aside from that unusual year, the most Pulitzer Prizes any paper has won in a single year is three.
 The New York Times won the public service award yesterday for articles by David Barstow and Lowell Bergman, detailing deaths and injuries among American workers and showing how employers broke basic safety rules with impunity. The submission was moved from the investigative reporting category, where it was a finalist, by the board that administers the awards on behalf of Columbia University. 
 The Wall Street Journal won two prizes: for explanatory reporting, for a series examining aneurysms, by Kevin Helliker and Thomas M. Burton; and for beat reporting, for Daniel Golden's look into admission preferences given by American colleges to the children of alumni and donors.
 The Washington Post won in the international reporting category for Anthony Shadid's dispatches from Iraq.
 The prize for investigative journalism went to Michael D. Sallah, Mitch Weiss and Joe Mahr of The Blade in Toledo, Ohio, for a series on atrocities committed by Tiger Force, an Army elite volunteer unit, during the Vietnam War.
 The Miami Herald won the commentary award for columns by Leonard Pitts Jr., and the prize for editorial cartooning was given to Matt Davies of The Journal News, in White Plains, N.Y.
 Among the seven prizes awarded in the arts, two went to books on the African-American experience. Steven Hahn won the prize in history for ''A Nation Under Our Feet: Black Political Struggles in the Rural South From Slavery to the Great Migration,'' and the prize for fiction was awarded to Edward P. Jones for his historical novel ''The Known World,'' about a black slave owner.
 A piece of gay history that is currently running on Broadway won the award for drama: Doug Wright's ''I Am My Own Wife,'' a dark and funny play about a German transvestite who survived both the Nazis and the Communists. The biography award was given to William Taubman for ''Khrushchev: The Man and His Era.''
 For general nonfiction, the winner was Anne Applebaum for ''Gulag: A History,'' and for poetry, Franz Wright for ''Walking to Martha's Vineyard.'' The music award went to Paul Moravec for ''Tempest Fantasy,'' a 30-minute work.
 In yesterday's sweep by The Los Angeles Times, the paper's staff won in the breaking news category for its coverage of the wildfires last fall that killed 26 people and destroyed more than 3,600 homes. The staff also won the national reporting prize for articles on how the business tactics of Wal-Mart, the world's largest company, have changed not only American towns but also communities around the world. 
 The criticism award went to Dan Neil for his reviews of automobiles, and Bill Stall was cited for editorial writing that diagnosed the state government's ailments and prescribed remedies. Carolyn Cole won in the feature photography category for her harrowing pictures from the civil war in Liberia.
 ''I have tried to keep in mind that a certain amount of luck is involved in all of this,'' said John S. Carroll, editor of The Los Angeles Times. ''The stars seemed to align for us. We had a lot of big stories out there; not just the war, but the shuttle and the recall election as well.''
 The paper's big win comes on the heels of its strong showing in the awards last year, when it won three Pulitzers. The two-year showing in journalism's most prestigious awards suggests that the newspaper has more than recovered from a 1999 scandal stemming from its sharing advertising profits from a special issue of the paper's magazine with the subject of the issue: the newly completed Staples Center.
 After its purchase by the Tribune Company in 2000, The Times hired Mr. Carroll from The Baltimore Sun, and he has been widely credited with the paper's turnaround.
 ''It is one of the most impressive performances by an editor I have ever seen,'' said Bill Kovach, chairman of the Committee of Concerned Journalists. ''It took him just two years to establish this paper as one of the best by giving it a sort of jet-propelled assist. To have two years in a row of multiple Pulitzers is amazing.''
 In a break with tradition, no award was made this year in the feature writing category, for the first time since the category was created in 1979. Sig Gissler, administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes, said after the announcements that ''no award simply means that no entry achieved a majority of votes.'' He added that more than 50 times in Pulitzer Prize history, no awards were given in various categories.
 Each prize is $10,000, except for the public service prize, which is a gold medal.

HISTORY
STEVEN HAHN
''A Nation Under Our Feet: Black Political Struggles in the Rural South From Slavery to the Great Migration''

Taking on an immense swath of Southern history, Mr. Hahn, 52, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, argues that the political organization of rural blacks, even during slavery, has been greatly underestimated in accounts of Reconstruction and the roots of the civil rights movement.

FINALISTS -- ''They Marched Into Sunlight: War and Peace, Vietnam and America, October 1967,'' by David Maraniss; ''Great Fortune: The Epic of Rockefeller Center,'' by Daniel Okrent.

FICTION
EDWARD P. JONES
''The Known World''

In this bold novel about a black man who is a slave owner, Mr. Jones used his imagination to explore new territory in antebellum Southern history. In naming it one of the nine best books of 2003, the editors of The New York Times Book Review said it ''exposes the heart of slavery.'' This is Mr. Jones's first novel, following a collection of short stories, ''Lost in the City.'' Mr. Jones, 53, lives in Arlington, Va., and worked for almost two decades as a proofreader until he was laid off in 2002.

FINALISTS -- ''American Woman,'' by Susan Choi; ''Evidence of Things Unseen,'' by Marianne Wiggins.

BIOGRAPHY
WILLIAM TAUBMAN
''Khrushchev: The Man and His Era''

Mr. Taubman, 62, the Bertrand Snell professor of political science at Amherst College, spent 20 years on his book about Nikita S. Khrushchev, who led the Soviet Union from the mid-1950's to 1964. Learning of his Pulitzer Prize, Professor Taubman said: ''I feel privileged in a sense because I worked long and hard and did good work, but lots of people work long and hard and do good work. So I think when you get something like this, it's a stroke of good fortune.''

FINALISTS -- ''Isaac Newton,'' by James Gleick; ''Arshile Gorky: His Life and Work,'' by Hayden Herrera.

POETRY
FRANZ WRIGHT
''Walking to Martha's Vineyard''

Mr. Wright, 51, is the son of James Wright, who won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 1972. Like his father, who died in 1980, he has suffered from substance abuse and depression. Recently, he worked as a mental health counselor. His subjects are raw pain and a longing to connect to the father.
 His style is minimalist, with no pretty word patterns. ''The only animal that commits suicide/ went for a walk in the park,/ basked on a hard bench/ in the first star,/ traveled to the edge of space'' he writes in ''The Only Animal,'' part of his winning collection.
 ''I wish my father could be around,'' he said of winning. Still, he added, ''My in-laws will like me much better.''
 ''Like, who wants their daughter to marry a poet?''

FINALISTS -- ''Middle Earth,'' by Henri Cole; ''Eyeshot,'' by Heather McHugh.

DRAMA
DOUG WRIGHT
''I Am My Own Wife''

Mr. Wright, 41, met Charlotte von Mahlsdorf, an East German transvestite who had survived both the Nazi and Communist regimes, in the early 1990's, and immediately wanted to write a play about her. He abandoned the project for nearly a decade after finding out that she had been a Stasi informer, but finally revived it with the help of the director Moises Kaufman and the actor Jefferson Mays. The play is a one-man show in which Mr. Mays plays more than three dozen characters, including Ms. von Mahlsdorf and himself.

FINALISTS -- ''Man From Nebraska,'' by Tracy Letts; ''Omnium Gatherum,'' by Theresa Rebeck and Alexandra Gersten-Vassilaros.

GENERAL NONFICTION
ANNE APPLEBAUM
''Gulag: A History''

Ms. Applebaum, 39, is a columnist and member of the editorial board at The Washington Post. ''Gulag,'' her second book, is an account of the development of the Soviet concentration camps. A Yale graduate, Ms. Applebaum began her journalism career in 1988 as a Warsaw correspondent for The Economist, and covered the collapse of communism for various publications.

FINALISTS -- ''Rembrandt's Jews,'' by Steven Nadler; ''The Mission: Waging War and Keeping Peace With America's Military,'' by Dana Priest.

MUSIC
PAUL MORAVEC
''Tempest Fantasy''

Mr. Moravec, 46, has been hailed as one of the New Tonalists, composers processing the leavings of serialism and minimalism into a more accessible and melodious idiom.
 ''Tempest Fantasy'' began as one of a set of piano variations named for the composer's friends. The 30-minute work has five harmonically and thematically related movements that the composer calls ''a musical meditation'' on his favorite Shakespeare play.

FINALISTS -- ''Piano Concerto No. 3,'' by Peter Lieberson; ''Cello Counterpoint,'' by Steve Reich.

PUBLIC SERVICE
THE NEW YORK TIMES

The Times was honored for the work of David Barstow, 41, left, and Lowell Bergman, 58, who exposed safety violations in American factories that contributed to deaths and injuries of employees.
 Work on the first of two three-part series, ''Dangerous Business,'' was done by The Times and Times Television, in a joint project with the PBS program ''Frontline'' and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Mr. Barstow wrote a second three-part series, ''When Workers Die.''

FINALISTS -- The Courier-Journal, of Louisville, Ky., for its portrayal of how delays in the state's criminal justice system harmed victims and criminals alike; The Providence Journal, for coverage of the causes and consequences of a nightclub fire that killed 100 people; The Seattle Times, for articles that revealed sexual misconduct by coaches.

INTERNATIONAL REPORTING
ANTHONY SHADID
The Washington Post

The Pulitzer judges hailed Mr. Shadid's ''extraordinary ability to capture, at personal peril, the voices and emotions of Iraqis'' before, during and after the American invasion. Mr. Shadid, 35, said his favorite articles included one in which he interviewed a father in Thuluya, Iraq, who had been forced by villagers to kill his son, whom they suspected of spying for the Americans.
 ''It's been a tough story, it's been a tough year,'' Mr. Shadid, an American of Lebanese descent, said from Baghdad yesterday. ''We tried to define an event that's going to have repercussions for a generation.''

FINALISTS -- Roger Thurow and Scott Kilman of The Wall Street Journal, for articles on starvation in Africa; David Zucchino of The Los Angeles Times, for reports from combat zones during the Iraq war.

BREAKING NEWS REPORTING
THE LOS ANGELES TIMES

The Pulitzer jury cited The Times for its ''compelling and comprehensive'' coverage of devastating wildfires that swept through swaths of Southern California last fall. More than 90 reporters, many who put themselves in harm's way, and scores of editors, produced more than 100 stories that filled 34 full pages over five days at the height of the fire.

FINALISTS -- The Miami Herald staff, for its search for the cause of the Columbia space shuttle disaster; the staff of Newsday, Long Island, N.Y., for its coverage of the August blackout in the Northeast.

NATIONAL REPORTING
THE LOS ANGELES TIMES

The judges honored four Times reporters -- Abigail Goldman, Nancy Cleeland, Evelyn Iritani and Tyler Marshall -- for their three-part series examining Wal-Mart's relentless price-cutting and its consequences in both American towns and developing nations.

FINALISTS -- S. Lynne Walker of Copley News Service, writing for The State Journal-Register in Springfield, Ill., for exploring how Mexican immigration transformed an all-white Midwestern town; The Wall Street Journal staff, for its reporting on the decision-makers responsible for life-and-death health-care choices.

BEAT REPORTING
DANIEL GOLDEN
The Wall Street Journal

Mr. Golden, who covers education for The Journal, won for reporting that included a series of articles on the university-admissions preferences given to the children of alumni, wealthy donors and the well connected. Mr. Golden, 46, said yesterday: ''There were an awful lot of people out there, whether they were college admission staffers or high school college counselors, who were really sort of outraged by these advantages for privileged white students.''

FINALISTS -- Ellen Barry of The Boston Globe, for articles on neglected people with mental health problems in Massachusetts; Barton Gellman of The Washington Post, for coverage of the search for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.

INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING
MICHAEL D. SALLAH, MITCH WEISS and JOE MAHR
The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

This trio won the first Pulitzer in The Blade's history for a series of articles documenting the Vietnam War atrocities committed by Tiger Force, an elite Army unit that killed dozens of unarmed civilians, and possibly many more. Working on a tip from a former Army colonel, they unearthed more than 1,000 classified documents and interviewed former Tiger Force soldiers who had carried their secrets for decades.

FINALISTS -- David Barstow and Lowell Bergman of The New York Times (moved by the Pulitzer Prize Board to the public service category); David Ottaway and Joe Stephens of The Washington Post, for exposing questionable practices by an environmental organization.

EXPLANATORY REPORTING
KEVIN HELLIKER and THOMAS M. BURTON
The Wall Street Journal

The prize went to a series of 10 articles about aneurysms, an often overlooked medical condition that kills thousands of Americans each year. Mr. Helliker, 45, left, the paper's Chicago bureau chief, said he first heard of aneurysms in September 2002 when he was found to have one. An avid triathlete, he said he was ''blown away'' by the diagnosis, but even more surprised to find out how little doctors knew about the condition. Mr. Burton has been a medical reporter with The Journal for 14 years.

FINALISTS -- Erika Niedowski of The Baltimore Sun, for her account of how one of the best hospitals in the nation let an infant die of a preventable condition; Bernard Wolfson, William Heisel and Chris Knap of The Orange County Register, for their exploration of the quality of care at 26 local hospitals.

FEATURE WRITING

No award was given for the first time in this category. (A Pulitzer has not been awarded in other categories many times in the history of the awards.)

FINALISTS -- Robert Lee Hotz of The Los Angeles Times, for a story on the efforts to unravel the mystery of the Columbia space shuttle disaster; Anne Hull and Tamara Jones of The Washington Post, for their exploration of the lives of wounded soldiers returning from Iraq; Patricia Wen of The Boston Globe, for chronicling more aggressive efforts by states to terminate the rights of parents.

COMMENTARY
LEONARD PITTS Jr.
The Miami Herald

Mr. Pitts, 46, a finalist in criticism in 1993, was honored this time for his work as a columnist. Mr. Pitts took on a variety of controversial topics, including affirmative action, gay marriage and hard-core rap. The judges cited him for speaking ''with passion and compassion, to ordinary people on often divisive issues.''

FINALISTS -- Nicholas D. Kristof of The New York Times, for his columns on forgotten people trapped in misery; Cynthia Tucker of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, for columns that confronted sacred cows and hot topics with candor.

EDITORIAL WRITING
BILL STALL
The Los Angeles Times

Shortly after California voters recalled Gray Davis and elected Arnold Schwarzenegger governor, Mr. Stall, 67, began a series of seven editorials on ''the paralysis of California's state government'' that helped drive the recall movement. Mr. Stall also prescribed solutions, including fixing the campaign finance system to dilute the power of special interests.

FINALISTS -- Andrew H. Malcolm of The Los Angeles Times, for a broad range of work; Andres Martinez of The New York Times, for editorials on the effects of America's agricultural trade policy around the world.

CRITICISM
DANIEL NEIL
The Los Angeles Times

Mr. Neil, 44, the first automobile critic to win the Pulitzer for criticism, described his reviews yesterday as ''cultural appreciations of different types of cars.''
 ''It sounds crazy, I know,'' he said with a laugh, but argued that Americans' automobiles consistently reflect ''the things we value, the things we cherish, and sometimes our foibles.''

FINALISTS -- Nicolai Ouroussoff of The Los Angeles Times, for architectural criticism stretching from Los Angeles to Baghdad; Inga Saffron of The Philadelphia Inquirer, for architectural criticism accessible to both ordinary readers and experts.

EDITORIAL CARTOONING
MATT DAVIES
The Journal News, White Plains

Mr. Davies, 37, won for a year of political drama. Theres a very divisive political tone right now, and I think editorial cartoonists are right on the razors edge of that, he said.

FINALISTS -- Steve Sack, The Minneapolis Star Tribune; Garry Trudeau, Universal Press Syndicate, for Doonesbury.

BREAKING NEWS PHOTOGRAPHY
DAVID LEESON and CHERYL DIAZ MEYER
The Dallas Morning News

Mr. Leeson, 46, and Ms. Meyer, 36, won for ''eloquent photographs depicting both the violence and poignancy of the war with Iraq.'' The two photographers were embedded with military units during the invasion.

FINALISTS -- The Associated Press staff, for coverage of the war in Iraq; Chris Hondros of Getty Images, for coverage of upheaval in Liberia.

FEATURE PHOTOGRAPHY
CAROLYN COLE
The Los Angeles Times

In honoring Ms. Cole for her work during the siege of Monrovia, the capital of Liberia, the Pulitzer judges praised her ''cohesive, behind-the-scenes look'' at the effects of the war, with ''special attention to innocent civilians caught in the conflict.'' Ms. Cole, 42, often travels to the world's most troubled regions.

FINALISTS -- Pauline Lubens, Dai Sugano and Patrick Tehan of The San Jose Mercury News, for coverage of the California recall election; Damir Sagolj of Reuters, for a photo of an American medic cuddling an Iraqi child during the invasion of Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); FIRES (77%); POETRY (73%); HISTORY (72%); TERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); SLAVERY (69%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (67%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (60%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (54%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (95%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



141 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: A time to spruce up, split up, start up or move up. Agencies across the industry adjust to change.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott and Nat Ives

 BODY:
THE remaking of the advertising industry continues with a spate of acquisitions, spinoffs, reorganizations, start-ups and buyouts involving several agencies.
 The Cleveland office of the Wolf Group -- the last one remaining after the abrupt closing of its parent, Wolf Group Integrated Communications in Toronto -- has completed a management buyout, becoming an independent shop.
 The deal included the assumption of debt from the parent; further financial terms were not disclosed. The office is now known as Melamed Riley Advertising, said Sarah Melamed, 44, the president, who confirmed a report of the buyout that appeared this week in Adweek. 
 In addition to Ms. Melamed, the leaders of Melamed Riley are Rick Riley, 43, executive creative director, and Chuck Hurley, 63, chief financial officer. They had held the same titles at Wolf Group Cleveland. Melamed Riley has 35 employees and billings estimated at $32 million, from accounts like Dirt Devil, sold by Royal Appliance; the Flood Company, which sells exterior wood products; and Syngenta, a maker of agricultural products. 
 The Cleveland office became part of Wolf Group in 1997, when it was acquired under its previous identity as Meldrum & Fewsmith. It was one of several acquisitions by Wolf Group Integrated Communications that along with setbacks at an interactive division, account losses and other difficulties led the agency company to close suddenly in January.
 The managers of the Wolf Group office in Rochester also bought the agency back and are now operating as Partners & Napier; that deal also included a related office in Atlanta. The Wolf Group office in Toronto, known as Flavor, was shut, along with the Wolf Group office in New York. Mike Rogers, who had been the creative director there, opened his own agency, called M.L. Rogers, with some former colleagues, working for former clients of Wolf Group New York like Aamco, Arbor Mist wine and Scotts lawn care products. 
 Among a number of acquisitions, the Gannett Company in McLean, Va., acquired the assets of the Captivate Network in Westford, Mass., which sells commercial time on wireless flat panels that are installed in elevators. Terms were not disclosed. Mike DiFranza, president and general manager at Captivate, will continue in that role.
 Also, Fleishman-Hillard International Communications, part of the Omnicom Group, acquired a majority stake in Strat@comm, a public affairs agency in Washington specializing in automotive issues. Terms were not disclosed. Strat@comm will keep its name and leadership, made up of Jeff Conley, Ron DeFore and Diane Steed, all partners.
 In a separate deal, Colle & McVoy in Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, acquired the Mobium Creative Group in Chicago from R.R. Donnelley & Sons, for undisclosed terms. Mobium, with billings estimated at $30 million from clients like NEC-Mitsubishi and Oce North America, will keep its name.
 Additionally, Connelly Partners in Boston acquired C-Quential Inc. in Somerville, Mass., an online brand promotions agency, for undisclosed terms. The chief executive at C-Quential, Mark Russell, will lead the interactive group at Connelly as director.
 Finally, the Grey Healthcare Group in New York, part of the Grey Global Group, acquired MIT, a medical marketing agency in Tokyo, and renamed it Grey Healthcare Japan. Terms were not disclosed. Hisa Umezu, president at MIT, becomes president and chief executive at Grey Healthcare Japan.
 In an expansion, the Rojek Consulting Group in Cleveland, formerly Rojek Crutcher, opened an office in New York, led by Robert Moorman as principal and general manager. Mr. Moorman had been executive vice president for business development and integration at the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide division of Havas.
 In another expansion, the Blankman Group, a public relations agency in Garden City, N.Y., is being merged with the public relations division of Harrison Leifer DiMarco in Rockville Centre, N.Y., to form HLD/Blankman Public Relations at Harrison Leifer. Terms were not disclosed. Howard Blankman, chief executive at Blankman, will lead HLD/Blankman as president.
 Lastly, four executives are joining forces to open an agency named 72 and Sunny, with offices in Amsterdam and El Segundo, Calif. Presumably, the name will be more meteorologically appropriate in the latter office than in the former. 
 Three partners in 72 and Sunny worked in creative capacities at offices of Wieden & Kennedy: John Boiler, 38, Glenn Cole, 33, and Robert Nakata, 43. The fourth partner, Greg Perlot, 40, had worked with them when he directed advertising for Microsoft, a former client of Wieden & Kennedy's. Mr. Boiler, Mr. Cole and Mr. Perlot will be based in El Segundo and Mr. Nakata will lead the Amsterdam office.
 The agency is opening with one account, Bugaboo, a company in the Netherlands known for its high-end baby strollers under the Frog name, and projects for advertisers like the Portland Trail Blazers and the USA Network. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); DIVESTITURES (73%); AGRICULTURE (52%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (50%) Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: WOLF GROUP INTEGRATED COMMUNICATIONS LTD (90%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); GANNETT CO INC (81%); FLEISHMAN-HILLARD INC (63%); DENTSU INC (58%); SYNGENTA AG (56%); R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (51%); MOBIUM CREATIVE GROUP (51%); MDC PARTNERS INC (51%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); GCI (NYSE) (81%); 4324 (TSE) (58%); SYT (NYSE) (56%); SYNN (SWX) (56%); RRD (NASDAQ) (51%); MDZ.A (TSX) (51%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (63%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (51%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (51%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (51%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (51%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: MIKE ROGERS (66%) Stuart Elliott; Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%); MINNESOTA, USA (70%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



142 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health & Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Bring Generic AIDS Drugs to Poor Nations

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Four organizations with an interest in international health announced yesterday that they would join forces to help more than 100 countries get inexpensive generic AIDS drugs and discounted AIDS tests.
 If they succeed, generic drugs made by Indian and South African companies could reach virtually every poor country at prices as low as $140 per patient per year.
 The organizations are the William J. Clinton Presidential Foundation; the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; the World Bank; and Unicef. Arranging the deal would be a coup for the Clinton Foundation, which cannot by itself raise the billions of dollars for treatment. The foundation needs the financial clout of the Global Fund and the World Bank, which have each spent about $1.5 billion on the disease, and of Unicef, which procures drugs for many countries too poor or too disorganized to negotiate the complex world of pharmaceuticals and international trade rules. 
 It was unclear yesterday, however, whether the ambitious plan would be realized. The drug and diagnostics companies named in the deal have not all agreed to sell their products at the low prices they offered to a few African and Caribbean countries under two other deals brokered by the Clinton Foundation last year.
 An executive of the Global Fund conceded that it was ''a mistake on our part'' to announce the deal before making sure all the suppliers were in agreement.
 Nonetheless, the executive, Anil Soni, chief adviser to the Global Fund's executive director, said the organizations wanted to signal quickly that they endorsed the use of the generics approved by the World Health Organization. The Bush administration has questioned whether American taxpayer dollars should be spent on generic drugs instead of pricier patented ones.
 ''We want to make clear to our recipients that it is possible to purchase generics that are up to the W.H.O. quality standard,'' Mr. Soni said.
 The drug makers named in the announcement included Aspen Pharmacare of South Africa and four Indian makers, Cipla Ltd., Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd., Hetero Drugs Ltd. and Matrix Laboratories Ltd.
 The diagnostic test makers were two American companies, Beckman Coulter Inc. and Becton Dickinson & Company; and three European companies, Bayer Diagnostics, a unit of the Bayer HealthCare Group; bioMerieux; and Roche Diagnostics, a division of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. They hold patents on CD-4 and viral load tests, which tell whether antiretroviral drugs are working.
 In January, the Clinton Foundation announced that it had brokered deals for the diagnostics companies to provide the testing machines, as well as chemicals and training in a dozen African and Caribbean countries at discounts up to 80 percent. 
 When news of yesterday's announcement began leaking on Friday, two top executives of Cipla, the first company to offer an AIDS triple-therapy cocktail for less than $300, complained that they had not been consulted.
 Dr. Yusuf K. Hamied, Cipla's chairman, said yesterday that his company had sold its drugs for $240 to $280 per patient per year in 59 countries. He said that his company was not willing to expand the number of markets, now seven, where it offers the drugs for $140 until he had ''something in writing'' from the foundation and the fund.
 ''That doesn't mean I don't intend to participate,'' Dr. Hamied said. ''I want to know more.''
 A spokesman for Ranbaxy, which makes the only other W.H.O.-approved three-in-one drug combination, said that the official who dealt with the Clinton Foundation could not yet confirm whether the company would participate.
 At Aspen Pharmacare, Stavros Nicolaou, vice president for trade development, said it would sell its first-line cocktail, a two-drug pill and a one-drug pill, through the foundation for roughly $140, but only in Africa.
 Prasad Nimmagadda, chief executive of Matrix, said his company only supplied raw materials but would be willing to expand its capacity.
 A spokeswoman for Becton, Dickinson said the company ''was aware'' of the announcement but had not decided whether to offer low prices elsewhere. A spokeswoman for Beckman Coulter said whether the company would cooperate would depend on the bidding process.
 The other companies could not be reached. 
 Ira Magaziner, chairman of the Clinton Foundation's AIDS initiative, said bringing all the participants in line for the complicated buying deals would take time.
 ''We're going to pave the way for this deal to be extended to many countries,'' Mr. Magaziner said. ''That doesn't flick a light switch and make a deal.'' 
 The agreement is politically delicate because it pits former President Bill Clinton's endorsement of generics against what appears to be the prevailing opinion of the Bush administration, which has not allowed taxpayer dollars to be used to buy them.
 President Bush's secretary of health and human services, Tommy G. Thompson, is chairman of the board of the Global Fund, to which the United States is a major contributor. The announcement, planned last week, was delayed until the secretary could be told about it.
 Mr. Soni, said he did not expect resistance from the Bush administration because buying generic drugs was ''consistent with policies that were approved in 2002'' for the fund.
 Lost in the publicity over the previous foundation deals were the strict conditions each country must meet to qualify for the $140 price.
 Dr. Hamied said each country must submit large, irrevocable purchase orders and pay cash. Someone other than the drug company must bear the costs of registering each drug in each country, which might include lobbying Parliament or fighting patent lawsuits. There also must be a guaranteed supply of the raw active ingredients at fixed prices.
 Each country must also show how it will keep cheap drugs from being diverted and resold in wealthy countries, Mr. Soni said. 
 Dr. Hamied said he had been repeatedly asked for the $140 price by countries and charities unaware of the strict conditions. ''It caused us a lot of damage,'' he said.
 But he added, ''If someone wanted to give me an advance of $50 million and guarantee that I supply them for five years, I might do it for $120.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A boy with the AIDS virus at an orphanage in the Dominican Republic. An effort has begun to supply poor countries with cheaper AIDS drugs. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC DRUGS (94%); AIDS & HIV (92%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); CHEMICALS (86%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MALARIA (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PATENTS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROCHE HOLDING AG (85%); CIPLA LTD (85%); BECKMAN COULTER INC (84%); MYLAN LABORATORIES LTD (84%); BECTON DICKINSON & CO (83%); HETERO DRUGS LTD (63%); RANBAXY LABORATORIES LTD (63%); ASPEN PHARMACARE HOLDINGS LTD (58%); BAYER DIAGNOSTICS SA (52%); BAYER HEALTHCARE AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%)

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (85%); CIPLA (NSE) (85%); BOX (FRA) (83%); BDX (NYSE) (83%); RANBAXY (NSE) (63%); APN (JSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (84%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (84%); SIC3821 LABORATORY APPARATUS & FURNITURE (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (63%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



143 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: New Traffic Rules for a Dangerous Street

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
City officials announced a new set of traffic safety improvements yesterday for Queens Boulevard, the broad artery running through central Queens that has earned the nickname the Boulevard of Death because of the high number of pedestrians killed in accidents there.
 The changes focus on the eastern and western ends of the 7.1-mile-long boulevard, and include longer intervals for pedestrian crossing, more fences to curtail jaywalking, and other modifications to enhance traffic flow and improve safety, transportation officials said. Some changes are already in place, and others will take effect over the next two or three months, they added. 
 ''Although we have dramatically reduced the hazards facing pedestrians who use Queens Boulevard, we will keep focusing on them until we can drive the amount of fatalities all the way down to zero,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said at a news conference at 33rd Street and Queens Boulevard. The boulevard is dangerous for pedestrians because of its breadth -- there are four central lanes and additional lanes for local traffic on either side -- and its high volume of traffic, transportation officials say. There were 72 pedestrian deaths on the boulevard between 1993 and 2000. Those numbers dropped in recent years after the city began adding pedestrian fencing at some points, increasing crossing time at others and adding safety signs, including some that read, ''A Pedestrian Was Killed Here.'' In 2002 there were only two pedestrian deaths on the boulevard, and in 2003 there were five. 
 Among the changes announced yesterday are crossing times at some intersections that allow people to cross the boulevard unimpeded by turning vehicles. In other places, U-turns and left turns will be barred to streamline traffic flow.
 ''These improvements will save lives and help to tame the most dangerous street in NYC,'' Neel Scott, a spokesman for Transportation Alternatives, a pedestrian safety group, said in a statement. ''In addition, studies have shown again and again that increasing pedestrian safety and calming streets also has a positive impact on local businesses.''
 City officials are still discussing some of the changes with community members, said Transportation Commissioner Iris Weinshall. 
 Some Queens business owners at the news conference yesterday asked the mayor and the commissioner whether the traffic changes might reduce parking space around the boulevard and cause economic harm.
 The mayor said those concerns were secondary. ''The first thing is keeping our citizens from getting killed on the roads,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''I think economic impact is way down the list.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: There will be more crossing points for pedestrians on Queens Boulevard, the broad artery in central Queens. There will also be more fences to curtail jaywalking, among other safety measures. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



144 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: Many Hospitals Resist Computerized Patient Care

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
For years, technology has been held out as an important way to curb the scourge of medical errors. President Bush and Senator John Kerry have each called for a bigger commitment to computerization to reduce the 98,000 avoidable deaths a year that an eye-opening federal report in 1999 said might be caused by mistakes of doctors, nurses and other hospital personnel. 
 Yet even now, despite pressure from large employers, unions and health care advocacy groups -- and aggressive marketing by vendors -- only a few dozen medical centers across the country are making full use of the latest computerized patient safety systems. 
 The systems are intended to overcome problems as common as illegible handwriting on doctors' prescriptions that cause patients to receive the wrong drugs or doses, or result in one physician's not knowing what another has ordered.
 Still, hospitals and doctors say they have good reason to be cautious about the new technology. Many doubt that the computerized systems will ever repay their multimillion-dollar costs, according to Janet Corrigan, a health care financing and quality expert at the Institute of Medicine, which published the 1999 report and a follow-up in 2001 that called for eliminating ''most handwritten clinical data by the end of the decade.'' 
 They also fear that current technology will be outmoded or cost much less in a few years. And many doctors complain that using the systems to write prescriptions and order tests takes time away from seeing patients and running their offices on already stressful workdays.
 The challenges are clear both in the few cities where hospitals are using the systems and in places where they have been rejected.
 In Seattle, it required steady pressure from a leading employer, Boeing, and the machinists' union there to prompt hospitals to adopt patient safety measures promoted by the Leapfrog Group, a national organization of 150 employers and unions. 
 In Los Angeles, doctors at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center rebelled last year, complaining that the computerized system was too great a distraction from their medical duties. Their resistance forced the withdrawal of a system that was already online in two-thirds of the 870-bed hospital complex.
 The slow progress is not for lack of sales efforts by an array of companies, ranging from a handful known mainly to their hospital customers, like the Cerner Corporation and the Eclipsys Corporation, to giants like General Electric, Siemens and McKesson.
 ''By a rational standard, we are making dreadful progress,'' said Dr. Donald M. Berwick, president of the nonprofit Institute for Health Care Improvement and a professor at Harvard Medical School. ''Many, many lives could be saved,'' he said, and ''a lot of injuries could be prevented if we would move faster.''
 After citing the matter in his State of the Union address, President Bush asked Congress for $100 million in next year's budget to finance demonstration projects promoting the use of information technology to improve health care quality. He recently called a group of purchasers and providers of health care to the White House to follow up on the proposal. 
 Senator Kerry, for his part, is calling for enhanced federal reimbursements to help install computerized patient safety systems in every hospital by the end of the decade. But no one has proposed spending the $20 billion or more it would cost to meet that goal.
 In all, about 300 of the nation's 4,900 nongovernment hospitals have the systems, including 15 in the New York area. But only 40 have fully met the standards of the Leapfrog Group, which was formed largely in response to the report by the Institute of Medicine, an advisory group associated with the National Academy of Sciences.
 For a hospital to win its approval, Leapfrog -- whose members provide health care for 34 million consumers -- requires that 75 percent of doctors use an online system to order prescriptions and tests. Claire Turner, a Leapfrog spokeswoman, said that 118 more hospitals were expected to qualify this year, which would increase the total to just 3 percent of the nation's hospitals.
 By the end of the year, more than a third of patients in employer health plans in Seattle are expected to be admitted to hospitals where doctors routinely use the new technology, according to Dr. Arnold Milstein, a Leapfrog board member who is a consultant to Boeing.
 Hospitals spend millions of dollars to acquire the systems -- and there are no subsidies currently available from the government or big employers. But officials of Boeing's largest union, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, insisted during Leapfrog-sponsored meetings with hospital executives at Boeing headquarters that patient safety had to be the top priority.
 Leapfrog representatives asked each hospital to lay out its plans for capital spending. ''After we heard the list at one hospital, my colleague said, 'I'll take a postponement on the parking lot,''' Susan Palmer, a union representative at the meetings, recalled. 
 Children's Hospital was the first in Seattle to meet Leapfrog's goal of having 75 percent of its doctors using a computerized ordering system. The hospital, which has 250 beds, also met a second requirement -- supervision of the intensive care unit by a specialist. (A third Leapfrog goal, reporting a hospital's results on certain high-risk procedures, applies to medical care for adults.)
 Adding to the impetus, starting July 1 Boeing will pay 100 percent of patients' bills only at hospitals that meet Leapfrog's goals, Greg Marchand, a Boeing human resources official, said. At other hospitals in Boeing's health network, employees will have to pay 5 percent of the charges. 
 Children's, which has already invested more than $10 million in safety-related technology, plans to spend $15 million to $20 million in all to convert to a paperless system. Virtually all orders and reports, including patients' charts and records in outpatient clinics, will be digital. This year, the hospital is spending more than twice as much on information technology -- $13 million -- as on clinical equipment, the executive vice president, Patrick Hagan, said.
 The initial cost for an average-size hospital to install a system was estimated at $7.9 million, including hardware, software licenses and other expenses, in a study last year for the American Hospital Association and the Federation of American Hospitals by the First Consulting Group of Long Beach, Calif. Continuing costs average $1.34 million a year.
 Dr. Mark Del Beccaro, a pediatrician who is clinical director of information services at Children's Hospital, said its staff had been discussing the project for a decade. The meetings with Boeing and the union provided ''a more poignant, local reason'' to make it happen, he said.
 Nurses say the systems save valuable time. ''Getting an antibiotic for a kid who has a fever used to take 45 minutes,'' said Kristi Klee, a clinical nurse specialist at Children's. ''Now, you get it in half an hour.''
 But persuading doctors to use such systems can be a hard sell, especially when many of them have outside practices and are not on the hospital's payroll.
 In what Dr. Milstein called a ''debacle,'' doctors at Cedars-Sinai last year forced officials to withdraw a doctors' ordering system that was already online. 
 Dr. Michael Langberg, chief medical officer of Cedars, said doctors complained, in a stormy staff meeting, that using the computers took time they could not spare from heavy schedules.
 ''They said, 'If it takes five minutes more to order medications for each inpatient in the hospital, where am I going to find the two hours a day?''' Dr. Langberg recounted.
 Cedars plans to reconsider the system late next year, he said, and will try to involve more of the 1,800 doctors in the planning. In the meantime, it is working on other innovations -- including automated physician signoffs on medical orders and automated summaries for patients who are discharged -- that could save time for doctors.
 ''The physicians are willing to accept some increase in time per patient,'' Dr. Langberg said. ''They understood the patient safety issue. We look forward to doing better on the next time around.''
 Without outside help in paying for computerized systems, many hospitals are searching for less expensive, low-technology ways to improve safety -- like improving doctors' handwriting and standardizing drug doses, said Kelly Devers, a health policy expert at Virginia Commonwealth University.
 The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations is planning to publicize hospitals that use practices it defines as safe. The commission, a nonprofit group financed by fees paid by the hospitals, has not endorsed the expensive electronic systems that most of its hospital partners have not purchased.
 But Dr. Dennis O'Leary, the commission's president, said its standards for administering medication safely and accurately would be easier for hospitals to meet if they had computerized physician-order entry systems.
 The study for the American Hospital Association summarized various reports of savings credited to such systems, ranging from a 12.7 percent cut in total inpatient charges at a typical 500-bed hospital to reductions of $500,000 each in pharmacy and laboratory charges. None of the hospitals in the study said they expected the computerized-order system to pay for itself. 
 Mr. Hagan of Children's Hospital in Seattle is not expecting purely economic rewards. ''At best, there will be an indirect return on investment, perhaps enabling us to be more efficient in a number of ways,'' he said. 
 The nation's hospitals are now spending $200 million to $300 million a year for computerized physician-ordering systems, according to Frost & Sullivan, a market research firm.
 ''The good part is that we are doing better than we were'' in the 1980's, when the first such systems were built, said R. Adams Dudley, a health technology expert at the University of California, San Francisco. ''The horrible part is how could we, after all this time, be only at this level?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Systems like this one at Children's Hospital in Seattle display a warning when a drug order is above a suggested range. (Photo by Larry Davis for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Bruce Spalding and Susan Palmer of the machinists' union urge Seattle-area hospitals to install the systems. (Photo by Larry Davis for The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Medicine and Health; Computers and the Internet; Hospitals; Doctors ; Accidents and Safety; Finances; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Tests and Testing; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: CERNER CORP (84%); ALLSCRIPTS HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS INC (62%); SIEMENS AG (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); BOEING CO (53%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNICATION INC (51%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE QUALITY INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (55%)

TICKER: CERN (NASDAQ) (84%); MDRX (NASDAQ) (62%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



145 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Amid a Trade Deal, A Debate Over Labor

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR 

 BODY:
Marina del Carmen Leiva, a 32-year-old mother, struggles to keep her job earning $152 every month bent over sewing machines, making clothes for famous American brand-name companies.
 The pressure to produce garments quickly is so great, she says, that she and her co-workers are regularly refused permission to visit the bathroom or get a drink of water for fear it would slow the line.
 ''If they would just treat us like human beings, even without raising the minimum wage, my life would be better,'' said Mrs. del Carmen Leiva, a slender, dark-eyed woman who is the sole supporter of her three children.
 With the Bush administration asking Congress to approve the Central American Free Trade Agreement late this spring, the next big battle over the politically explosive issue of trade will revolve around people like Mrs. del Carmen Leiva and their labor rights.
 For President Bush, the best help for workers like Mrs. del Carmen Leiva is his Central America agreement. Cafta, as the agreement is called, promises more trade with the United States and a new commitment that the five countries included -- Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras and Panama as well as El Salvador -- will do a better job enforcing their national labor laws. 
 But Democrats say that is not enough. Cafta, they say, needs to include explicit guarantees of the internationally recognized labor rights to organize unions and to prohibit child labor and discrimination in employment. Then, they say, increased trade would lead to better protection for jobs abroad and at home, and the benefits of globalization would be spread more evenly.
 Cafta would create a free trade zone between the United States and the five Central American nations, immediately dropping most duties for imports. It would also help prepare the textile industry in all the countries for stiff international competition next year, especially from China, when the global textile quota system is eliminated under an global trade agreement. The Central American nations opened their protected insurance, telecommunications and agricultural sectors to American competition, but the United States resisted requests to reduce its annual $19 billion in agriculture subsidies or allow more immigration.
 In the last decade, as global and regional trade accords have expanded to include enforced protection of intellectual property rights and foreign investment, the idea of including workers' rights is gaining ground.
 ''It's ridiculous that trade laws provide better protection for the label of a garment than the worker who sews it on,'' said Sergio Chavez, director for the National Labor Committee, a nonprofit organization here lobbying for workers.
 With lost jobs and closed factories a crucial issue this election year, Democrats hope to make workers' rights in trade one of their defining issues.
 Senator John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, says he is opposed to Cafta because it fails to protect workers in Central America as well as American workers, ''who are forced to compete hopelessly against companies that abide by no rules whatsoever.''
 To the Bush administration, that sounds like political showboating. Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, argues that Cafta, with its enforcement clauses to improve labor rights and fines for offenders, has the best labor provisions ever negotiated in a trade agreement. ''No country is doing more than the United States to push for strong labor and environmental provisions in international trade agreements,'' Mr. Zoellick said. ''While some other countries talk about labor and the environment in the context of trade, only the United States is actually doing something to integrate these topics as an active part of its trade agenda.''
 The Institute for International Economics, a centrist research group in Washington, recently published a policy brief on labor standards and Cafta, arguing that ''globalization and workers rights are complementary'' and that greater respect for the core international labor standards could help spread trade benefits more broadly.
 As the debate plays out in the presidential campaign in the United States, the same political battle is under way in El Salvador. 
 In this tropical country of extreme wealth and poverty, the question of labor rights touches a raw nerve. Twelve years after a civil war was fought in part over questions of inequality, shanties with scrap metal roofs are crammed together on the capital's outskirts, while stucco mansions hidden behind well-guarded walls sit serenely along leafy avenues. 
 Business leaders here recoil at the complaint that Cafta fails workers and say that the labor provisions are generous and well balanced with the need to attract more foreign investment and create many more jobs. ''In a word, Cafta will generate stability and security,'' said Rigoberto Monge, the senior official of the National Association of Private Enterprise in charge of trade agreements.
 With a national budget of less than $3 billion, El Salvador survives on the $2 billion sent home every year in remittances from compatriots working in the United States. In such an economy, improving trade is considered critical. At the same time, the country has a miserable record of upholding its labor laws.
 In her cramped bungalow, Mrs. del Carmen Leiva sounds like many other Salvadoran factory workers who have little faith in their government's labor policies.
 ''It makes me angry when they say we have good laws for workers' rights,'' she said. ''In four years I won't have a job because factories don't want us after we turn 35 years of age and then what will I do?''
 Every workday, in a scene worthy of a Diego Rivera mural, she is one of the thousands of mostly young women, and some men, who pile out of crammed buses and vans outside factories enclosed as an international free trade zone. The workers gulp down hot sweetened coffee and corn tortillas bought from street vendors and then rush through the single entry gate, past guards armed with rifles who check their identification cards, before disappearing inside one of the clothing factories.
 In a country with a 42 percent unemployment rate, these workers are considered lucky to have a job, even if it does pay the lowest of the country's three minimum wages.
 Luis Fernando Avelar Bermudez, El Salvador's vice minister of labor, said the labor argument should not undermine the chances for passage of Cafta either in the United States or El Salvador. The chance of open access to the world's biggest economy, he said, is too important for his country's future.
 ''People who are making criticisms about our labor conditions are mired in the past,'' Mr. Avelar Bermudez said. ''Instead, we want to thank the United States for the opportunities they are giving us in Cafta.''
 Antonio Aguilar Martinez, El Salvador's deputy ombudsman for human rights, an independent government watchdog role, said that attitude was short-sighted. He said he believed that stronger labor clauses would improve the quality of the country's labor force, which includes more than 87,000 workers in maquila factories, which are owned by foreigners who are not required to pay most taxes. It would also attract more foreign investors, he said.
 ''This is quite a hostile environment for workers, where the business and government sectors see protecting workers' rights as going against the country's economic interests,'' he said. ''Cafta protects the fundamental rights of businesses but not the labor rights of the citizens.''
 Recent reports confirm the checkered history of labor rights in the country. ''Deliberate Indifference,'' by Human Rights Watch, a nonprofit advocacy group, says that employers in El Salvador fire or suspend trade union members and leaders without penalties and keeps unofficial black lists of workers considered troublemakers. 
 Those findings are reinforced by the State Department's human rights reports. 
 But the Nationalist Republican Alliance, the conservative political party known as Arena that continued its hold on the presidency in last month's election, disputes the notion that El Salvador is incapable of enforcing its labor laws that respect the international labor standards. 
 ''The human face of free trade agreements are new jobs,'' said Carmen Elena Calderon de Escalon, a senior Arena deputy in the legislative assembly. ''We have made the commitment to carry out our labor code and monitor to see it is followed through.''
 But the left and centrist parties have a plurality in the legislature and they say Cafta needs to contain explicit promises to enforce the international labor codes.
 ''It's not a simple question of will we or won't we ratify Cafta,'' said Hugo Martinez, a senior deputy of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, which was the rebel force that fought the government during the country's brutal civil war. ''We want to give a big welcome to foreign investors who will make new jobs, but only if they are willing to respect basic labor standards.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about a debate over labor rights and the proposed Central American Free Trade Agreement misstated one of the countries included in the agreement. It is Nicaragua, not Panama. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marina del Carmen Leiva, a factory worker in El Salvador. ''If they would just treat us like human beings,'' she said, ''even without raising the minimum wage, my life would be better.''
Factory workers are checked by armed guards in Olocuilta, in the province of La Paz near San Salvador.
(Photographs by Edgar Romero for the New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Factory workers in Olocuilta, El Salvador. The country has a national budget of less than $3 billion and an unemployment rate of 42 percent. In such an economy, improving trade is considered critical. (Photo by Edgar Romero for the New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); CHILD LABOR (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); TEXTILES (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); CHILDREN (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); APPROVALS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); TEXTILE MFG (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); BUDGETS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (63%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (61%); PLANT CLOSINGS (60%) International Trade and World Market; Treaties; Law and Legislation; Central American Free Trade Agreement; International Trade and World Market; Freedom and Human Rights; Labor; Child Labor; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Minimum Wage; Unemployment; Discrimination; Organized Labor; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); COSTA RICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); PANAMA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) United States; Costa Rica; Guatemala; Honduras; Panama; El Salvador; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



146 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW

LENGTH: 2118 words

HEADLINE: One-Doorbell-One-Vote Tactic Re-emerges in Bush-Kerry Race

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
They call it the ground war. And as anticipated, it is back after a long hiatus, subtly changing politics as we know it. Or trying to.
 After decades of playing poor relation to television advertising, grass-roots politics has become a campaign star this year, as many political pros predicted it would be in the aftermath of the Bush-Gore face-off of 2000. And today it ranges from old-fashioned shoe leather to Web technology that can make a precinct captain of anyone with a computer.
 It is a matter of adaptation, or survival of the most flexible. With the country still so sharply divided that political analysts figure as few as 10 percent of voters are undecided, each side is fighting to find and bring out every last one if its voters, and persuade the ''persuadables,'' too. That means competing door to door, computer to computer, Web site to Web site. A ground war to complement the air war. 
 ''It's funny; it's in vogue,'' said Steven Rosenthal, a former labor organizer now directing America Coming Together, one of those new tax-exempt groups in pursuit of a large Democratic turnout. ''Some of us have labored in the trenches of grass-roots politics for a lifetime and fought with the party leadership for more resources,'' Mr. Rosenthal said. ''Now it's the thing to do.''
 It is at least one thing on which strategists for President Bush and John Kerry agree.
 ''In a world where there is a wealth of information, there is often a poverty of attention,'' said Ken Mehlman, Mr. Bush's campaign manager. ''A face-to-face communication is most often the most credible and effective way to reach somebody.''
 In the days of ward politics, when the country was smaller and the technology simpler, the party bosses knew a lot of the voters personally, and they or their lieutenants kept tabs on them. They knocked on their doors, harangued them, slipped literature in their mailboxes, rewarded loyalty with a ticket to a ballgame here, a letter of recommendation there. Maybe a job.
 Then, with the Kennedy-Nixon campaign of 1960, television took over and made such tactics anachronistic. Why knock on 100 doors when one TV ad can reach millions? Now, campaign tacticians have decided that all those millions of people do not necessarily want to hear the same message. They want to hear about what they care about. Solution: everything old is new again; the return of ward politics, sometimes with a high-tech twist.
 ''We're going back to the 1950's,'' said Karen White, political director of Emily's List, the powerful political action committee that helps elect Democratic women. 
 So hundreds of union workers attend a weekend camp preparing to spend months away from home in search of Democrats from Florida to Pennsylvania. And Republican volunteers meeting in the solid Bush town of Macon, Ga., are instructed in the political arts of calling radio talk shows and sending e-mail. A computer specialist uses marketing tools to distinguish Democrat from Republican, another invokes the importance of blogs. And a former Republican national chairman, Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, warns party stalwarts gathered in Washington that ''this will be a close election, and the best-organized campaign will win it.'' 
 John Kerry's advisers voice equal enthusiasm for the new-old strategies.

A Surgical Approach
 The goal is basic: identifying supporters and some undecided voters, then appealing to them directly and repeatedly. 
 ''We're going to find every Bush voter, we're going to call them, we're going to write them, we're going to knock on their doors, and when the day comes, we're going to physically take them to the polls,'' Ralph Reed, coordinator in the southeast for the Bush-Cheney campaign, said to those meeting in Macon a few weeks ago. 
 The reason for the ground war's new popularity is simple: a bipartisan belief that grass-roots appeals work, and almost worked to elect the other guy last time.
 ''In both parties, particularly in the Republican Party, we got away from what we were best at,'' Mr. Reed said. ''We focused money on media and polling, on contrasting our message with Democrats mostly through paid TV ads.''
 ''Then in 2000, we won the presidency by in effect 537 votes out of 105 million,'' he continued, referring to the Florida face-off. ''That tends to focus the mind.''
 Republicans, shocked by the loss of the popular vote in 2000 and their razor-thin margin, if that, in Florida, credited Democrats with besting them on the ground in the campaign's last days. Vowing never to be caught short again, they put together a detailed plan (the ''72-Hour Task Force'') to beat their rivals at their own game in the 2002 midterm elections, and succeeded.
 Now both parties have rediscovered their roots, with significant help from the new campaign finance law. It spawned nominally independent groups, largely on the Democratic side so far, that use unlimited ''soft money'' contributions for get-out-the-vote activities. In the past, much of that same money would have gone to television ads about candidates.
 These days, the race has begun to organize from the bottom up, focusing on about 20 battleground states: those that were so close in 2000 that a small edge in any one of them could theoretically decide the outcome this time. Ohio, Pennsylvania, Missouri and, of course, Florida top the list.
 Television is not going anywhere. ''Nobody would be dumb enough not to include it,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic consultant. ''But there are limits to TV.''
 Television audiences have grown cynical about political advertising, many analysts are convinced, and fragmented by the Internet, cable, talk radio and magazines.
 ''If you are going to communicate effectively you need to take account of that trend and act accordingly,'' Mr. Mehlman advised.

The Game, the Dinner, the Blog
 That means campaigning retail as well as wholesale, at the high school football game and the church dinner, through Web sites and blogs and e-mail messages -- techniques that, as Howard Dean demonstrated, were popular because they can be, or at least appear to be, personal. The pros even have a phrase for it: niche communications.
 It is customized campaigning, appealing to women in Los Angeles who favor abortion rights; to voters in Colorado worried about the environment; to the concerns of the Nascar dad and of the millions of evangelical Christians who did not go to the polls in 2000 in the numbers the Bush team had hoped they would, as Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, has lamented.
 They will be aggressively politicked this time, just as conservative men, normally apathetic in nonpresidential elections, were in the Georgia governor's race in 2002. The Republican, Sonny Perdue, won in an upset, in part because his party identified those voters and persuaded them that Mr. Perdue shared their concerns. Still-smarting Democrats charged that Republicans lobbied conservative men about the Confederate battle flag, to Republican denials that they focused particularly on the flag.
 Now, both parties are already trying to find and motivate their voters. These include people like Bonnie Rainwater of Elyria, Ohio. Elyria is a Democratic working-class neighborhood about a half-hour's drive from Cleveland. Ms. Rainwater, her toddler at her knees, was home one late afternoon when Tarina Howard rang her doorbell to say she was trying to register voters.
 ''Things on the news don't interest me, but with the war going on and me having a little one, it's scary,'' Ms. Rainwater said, explaining that she and her husband, a sanitation worker, were struggling to make ends meet. She filled out a registration form, one of several collected by Ms. Howard and about 30 others canvassing that afternoon in Elyria for the Ohio branch of America Coming Together, the organization that Mr. Rosenthal directs.
 ACT, as it is called, uses mostly the contributions known as soft money and, under the campaign finance law, is supposed to be independent of the Democratic Party. It can register people in blatantly Democratic areas like Elyria and can ask about issues and party preferences, but it cannot overtly urge a vote for or against any candidate.
 Definitions are murky, though, and Republicans as well as leading advocates of changes in campaign law are challenging the way such operations are financed. But it is expected to take the Federal Election Commission months to resolve the objections and clarify the rules, and meanwhile groups like ACT are at work, paying students and unemployed men and women $8 to $10 an hour to go door to door with hand-size computers and state voter lists. 
 Ms. Howard, a 20-year-old single mother, made out a voter registration form for Ms. Rainwater and entered Ms. Rainwater's concerns about the economy and the war into her mini-computer. 
 Voter registration efforts are nothing new, but the scope this year is unusual, people in both parties say. ACT is also overseeing an ambitious plan to send as many as 2,000 members of the Service Employees International Union, half from New York, into largely black and Hispanic areas of Ohio, Pennsylvania and Florida to register and canvass voters. Starting this week, workers will take job leaves ranging from a few months to seven; ACT and the union will pay for lodging, transportation, a daily food allowance of $35 and a salary of $600 a week, slightly more than some now earn working in hospitals and nursing homes.
 Republicans are doing their own organizing. ''We're going to run like we are behind,'' Mr. Reed told the more than 250 party workers who went to Macon for a training session in late winter. ''This campaign is going to be won or lost by what we do at the grass roots.''
 Participants were instructed in a highly detailed plan, complete with organizational charts and an official manual marked confidential for each county chairman. They were lectured on the importance of writing letters to newspapers in support of the president. They were urged to diversify each county organization to include a social conservative, a Hispanic, a veteran, a teacher, a representative of a small business and an African-American. They were assigned specific goals for registration and turnout in each county, got tips on the importance of bumper stickers and shared information on where to get the best bunting and how to comport themselves if they called radio shows.
 ''We want short, specific comments,'' said an associate of Mr. Reed, Timothy Phillips. ''We're not looking for personal attacks. And gather e-mails from folks in your county. We want permission. We don't want them to get angry about spam.''
 According to Mr. Mehlman, more than 220,000 volunteers, called team leaders, have signed up nationally to work for the president's re-election, and the party's goal is to register three million new Republican voters to help elect Republicans to statehouses and Congress as well as to retain the White House.

Oops, Wrong Candidate
 There are of course, limitations and risks in the ground war. No amount of grass-roots campaigning can make up for a candidate who does not go over with the public. And campaigners can inadvertently energize voters for the opposing team. In Elyria that afternoon, Ms. Howard found herself registering Jose and Juanita Torres, recent arrivals from Puerto Rico who said they liked Mr. Bush. (Their voter registration forms will be duly submitted, said Jess Goode, ACT's Ohio communications director.)
 In practice, campaigns can use voter lists and other public records to paint an ethnic, racial and political portrait of a neighborhood, but they cannot be sure about the politics of every individual. 
 Or can they?
 This year, both parties are experimenting with new technologies that build lists of about 170 million potential voters. Each name is cross-indexed with demographic and financial information drawn from public records and some commercial sources.
 Computer experts are using the data to try, for the first time, to profile millions of voters, to figure out if they are worth contacting. It has never been done this way before because the technology was not sophisticated enough before. The question now is whether the technology will ever be reliable enough to typecast the public's politics by the millions. 
 ''People want a quick fix, they want to believe that if I can find what magazines you subscribe to, I can know how you will vote,'' said Laura Quinn, a consultant to the Democratic National Committee. ''It just doesn't work that way.'' 
 Others say it can but is not quite there yet. How does it work? The experiments are up and running.

Foraging for Votes
NEXT -- Turning consumer information into political fingerprints.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ralph Reed, coordinator in the Southeast for the Bush-Cheney campaign, offered pointers at a training seminar in Macon, Ga., in February. (Photo by John Amis for The New York Times)
 Tarina Howard, right, a worker for the Ohio branch of the Democratic organization ACT, persuaded Tameshi Dunlap to sign a voter registration card. (Photo by Roger Mastroianni for The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); LABOR UNIONS (66%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Public Opinion; Television; Computers and the Internet; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Joyce Purnick; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MACON, GA, USA (59%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



147 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Work Ordered to Stop at Columbus Circle

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT; Jennifer Steinhauer and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
A day after high winds sent sheet metal tumbling 76 stories from the Time Warner Center, barely missing a pedestrian, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday ordered all outdoor construction to cease at the Columbus Circle site until the builders present a plan to protect against dangerous gusts.
 This was the fourth time debris has fallen at the site since Sept. 11, 2002, when a construction worker was struck by a piece of plywood and died, the city's Buildings Department said. The company in charge, Related Management, was cited on Sunday, and two other construction companies have received three citations since construction started, the department said.
 ''The law says that you have to batten down all construction material every single day before you go home, and this is a site where we've given four summonses out,'' Mayor Bloomberg said at a news conference in Queens. ''We are not going to have to walk down the streets and look up all the time at the building wondering whether something is going to come off it.'' 
 Alan Segan, a spokesman for Time Warner Center, said in a written statement: ''An exhaustive inspection of the three acres of roof space was conducted immediately following the incident to ensure that all areas are free of debris. We continue to cooperate with all local agencies to insure the safety of the area surrounding the building.''
 The mayor's action came on a second day of nearly 40-mile-an-hour winds that caused gritty-eyed New Yorkers to look skyward as they made their way down sidewalks or up into the streets from their subterranean commuting. Pieces of trash circled in the air like hawks, windows thundered and cabs shook at stoplights as winds swept through the city's canyons. In the higher reaches of the city, where wind increases in force, the gusts were humbling, causing officials at the Empire State Building to close the west side of the observation deck yesterday. 
 ''It took your breath away, it was so painful,'' said Emma Davies, 33, a tourist from Oxford, England, who stood on the southern side of the observation deck yesterday morning. ''You could feel the railing shaking.'' 
 The Fire Department reported no wind-related injuries, though falling debris was cited at several other construction sites on Sunday.
 In Chelsea, the wind was not about to knock Maureen Bayley down. She glared into its invisible face and tried to push forward, but went nowhere. The resulting image was probably replicated throughout New York's streets: a nanny pushing a baby stroller that would not move.
 Finally, the gust passed and Ms. Bayley was moving again, across Ninth Avenue and into Chelsea Market for relief. Her heroic efforts were lost on Tyler, the baby who lay sleeping in the stroller.
 ''He's dreaming through the wind, that's for sure,'' said Ms. Bayley, 40, an immigrant from Trinidad and Tobago, where, to her memory, only hurricanes produced such gusts, she said. ''But this is not a hurricane here; this is a normal, windy day.''
 In fact, New York City experiences equally forceful winds only 15 days a year, on average, said Jeff Warner, a meteorologist at Pennsylvania State University. The strongest gust reported yesterday, as of the late afternoon, was 37 miles an hour in Central Park. Sunday's high was the same. 
 The force of such winds can double as they pass through city streets lined with high-rise buildings -- what is known as the wind-tunnel effect. When the wind gets funneled into a corridor between tall buildings, it is forced to accelerate, Mr. Warner said.
 On the ground, such gales often send pedestrians lurching into alcoves for cover, but up higher, the effects are even more hair-raising: newer buildings will sometimes tremble because they tend to be built with lighter, more economical materials.
 But a little shaking does not mean less resistance, said Anton Davies, a wind engineer whose Canadian firm -- Rowan Williams Davies & Irwin -- has consulted on numerous skyscraper projects in New York City. The city's newer buildings are designed to withstand gusts of up to 104 m.p.h., Dr. Davies said.
 Just the sound of the wind was enough to keep Thomas Propp from his sleep on Sunday night.
 ''It sounded like waves of water beating against the window,'' said Mr. Propp, 49, a yoga teacher from East Berlin who was staying on the third floor of a hotel on East 17th Street.
 Similar tremors were felt on the street.
 ''The wind is so strong that you feel the car is shaking,'' said Bouabdelli Mohamed, 39, a cabdriver who said that only the winds in the mountains of his native Algeria compare, in his mind, with New York City's wind power. ''It's supposed to be spring, huh?''
 Gusty winds are more commonplace in the financial district, but that did not prepare Lisa Piccuirro, a magazine account executive, for the wind that came as she walked along Exchange Place during her lunch break.
 ''It was like a Michael Jackson video, where the wind blows all your clothes,'' she said. ''My hair was going crazy.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pedestrians struggled to make their way across the intersection at 42nd Street and Eighth Avenue yesterday as gusts of up to 37 miles per hour swept through New York City for the second straight day. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WEATHER (89%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



148 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: President Makes His Pitch, On Jobs and at Ballgame

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS; Katharine Q. Seelye contributed reporting from Washington for this article and Jim Rutenberg from New York.

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, April 5 

 BODY:
President Bush focused his campaign Monday on job creation, celebrating employment figures for March that surpassed all but the most optimistic expectations before exercising that quintessentially presidential prerogative of throwing out the first ball on opening day at a field of his choosing.
 Mr. Bush chose to do so here in Missouri, an important tossup state in the presidential race. When he sprinted out of the home-team dugout at Busch Stadium here wearing a Cardinals jacket, he drew a cheer from the stands exceeding even that given a few minutes earlier to Stan Musial, perhaps St. Louis's most revered Hall of Famer. The president then threw an arguable strike to Mike Matheny, the Cardinals' catcher. 
 But for most of the day, his campaign and that of his presumed Democratic challenger, Senator John Kerry, tangled over jobs and fiscal responsibility.
 At a community college in Charlotte, N.C., that serves as a center for federal job training, Mr. Bush announced that he intended to double the number of workers in such training to 400,000 a year. 
 No new money will be committed to the effort, however. Mr. Bush told his audience that the cost of training twice as many people would be paid by trimming overhead in several jobs programs that would be consolidated into one. The president said he had discovered that jobs training was not working well because ''too much money is spent on things that have little to do with job training, such as management studies or travel.'' 
 Mr. Bush also pointed to last week's employment report showing that 308,000 jobs were created in March, the largest increase in about four years. 
 But Mr. Kerry, in round-table discussions in Washington with reporters from regional newspapers, played down that figure, arguing that it had resulted in part from the end of a strike by grocery workers in California. And 40,000 others of the people added to payrolls, he said, ''were part-time workers in the construction industry.''
 ''So you are not looking at the kind of robust, important job creation that the country really needs to raise the standard of living in our country,'' Mr. Kerry added.
 The senator also called attention to other figures, those showing the hundreds of thousands of jobs lost over the entire term of the Bush presidency. He noted that after the Sept. 11 attacks, the president promised to create 5.1 million jobs. Instead, Mr. Kerry said, ''he's lost 1.8 million private-sector jobs since that pledge.''
 ''He has failed in his promise,'' the senator said, ''by seven million jobs.''
 Mr. Kerry said it was his hope that the economy would in fact strengthen.
 ''I hope we create jobs,'' he said. ''Nothing would be better for our country or for me, because the better the country does, the more people will be open to a broader set of choices that we have in the nation about our future. And on every issue, this administration is moving in the wrong direction.''
 For his part, Mr. Bush portrayed the economy as recovering and said a big reason was his tax cuts.
 ''When I first came to office, the country was headed into a recession,'' he said. ''Fortunately we cut taxes, which made this recession the shallowest, one of the shallowest, in American history.'' 
 He argued that it was war and corporate scandals that had slowed the economic recovery until now. 
 ''The march to war was a difficult period for our economy,'' he said. ''We're now marching to peace. But think what our economy has been through: a recession, an attack, corporate scandals and a march to war. And we've overcome them all.'' 
 As the two candidates stumped, the Kerry organization introduced a new Internet advertisement amplifying its accusation that Mr. Bush had approved or proposed programs carrying a 10-year cost of $6 trillion without offering a way to pay for them.
 The minute-long ad focuses on a blackboard as the voice of a teacher, off camera, tells a young pupil named George, ''It looks like you're having a little trouble with your math,'' adding, ''You've overspent by $6 trillion.'' 
 ''You spent another $616 billion for your prescription drug plan,'' the teacher says by way of example, to which the voice of a young boy responds, ''I know, but the drug companies need the money.'' She goes on to mention other initiatives, including the president's plan to make his tax cuts permanent. 
 Mr. Bush's campaign aides said that the ad relied on specious figures. And in part, they said, it criticizes spending on programs that Mr. Kerry himself supports. 
 The Bush campaign pointed to Mr. Kerry's support for a Medicare bill that it said would have cost $625 billion over 10 years. Mr. Kerry's campaign did not dispute the assertion but said the issue at hand was Mr. Bush's spending record and its effect on the deficit. 
 In between the community college appearance and the ballgame, Mr. Bush attended a fund-raiser in Charlotte on Monday that Republican officials said raised more than $1.5 million.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush threw out the first pitch yesterday at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, where the Cardinals lost to the Milwaukee Brewers. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); BASEBALL (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Labor; Election Issues; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (91%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Neil A Lewis; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (56%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



149 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Tax Plan From '86 Would Have Raised Gas Prices

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5 

 BODY:
In October 1986, when Dick Cheney was the lone congressman from energy-rich Wyoming, he introduced legislation to create a new import tax that would have caused the price of oil, and ultimately the price of gasoline paid by drivers, to soar by billions of dollars per year.
 ''Let us rid ourselves of the fiction that low oil prices are somehow good for the United States,'' Mr. Cheney, who is now vice president, said shortly after introducing the legislation.
 Oil prices had plunged to $15 from nearly $40 a barrel in the early 1980's, as Saudi Arabia flooded world markets, and Mr. Cheney argued the tax was needed to stabilize oil-state economies devastated as a result. But other lawmakers, including some Republicans, criticized the Cheney plan and similar proposals as ''snake oil'' that would throw 400,000 Americans out of work. They also said then, as President Bush does now, that higher taxes would stall the economy. 
 Renewed attention on Mr. Cheney's plan, which Democrats dusted off and talked about on the Senate floor last week, offers another wrinkle in this year's politicized debate about gas prices, which hit a record-high average of $1.76 last week for a gallon of regular. While gas prices may remain a presidential campaign issue if they do not decline, they are still well below the inflation-adjusted high of nearly $3 in March 1981.
 To deflect charges that the White House has not done enough to bring down prices, the Bush campaign has attacked Senator John Kerry, the likely Democratic presidential nominee, as favoring higher gas prices. ''Some people have wacky ideas like taxing gasoline more so people drive less. That's John Kerry,'' a recent Bush campaign commercial said. The commercial singled out Mr. Kerry's support a decade ago for a 50-cent gas tax increase, part of a deficit-reduction package that Mr. Kerry never voted for.
 Yet the cost of Mr. Cheney's plan ultimately would have been passed on to drivers and other consumers through higher prices on gasoline and other refined petroleum products. In addition, he said in a February 1987 statement, he supported the tax partly because it would ''assist us in reducing our budget deficit.''
 Under Mr. Cheney's proposal, any foreign oil bought for less than $24 per barrel would have been taxed with a fee equal to the difference between the cost of imported oil and the $24 base price. According to the federal Energy Information Administration, the cost of imported oil in the late 1980's and most of the 1990's stayed well below $24, except for a brief period following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. In fact, oil imports cost less than $18 per barrel over much of that time, so when that was the case the Cheney plan could have led to oil taxes of $6 or more per barrel, driving up demand for domestic oil.
 But the plan also included a complicated formula tying the taxes to gains in inflation and the gross national product. Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who criticized the plan in a speech last week, said if it had been enacted when Mr. Cheney introduced it, in the years that followed it would have cost consumers $1.2 trillion.
 Robert M. Simon, Democratic staff director of the Senate Energy Committee, said he used an analysis by the Congressional Research Service to calculate that the $24 price base, after adjusting for inflation, would have grown steadily to $48.24 by this year. In comparison, the price of West Texas crude oil recently peaked at $38 but has settled around $34, well above the recent lows of $11 in 1998 and $18 in 2001.
 Mr. Cheney has often guided the Bush administration's energy policy, and in 2001 he headed a task force charged with increasing energy production. 
 ''It is hard to explain,'' Mr. Durbin said, ''how they could attack John Kerry for even considering a 50-cent gas tax, which he didn't introduce or vote for, and ignore Cheney's own legislation in 1986 which would have dramatically raised the cost of gasoline. If every vote and every statement made by John Kerry is fair game, the same thing is true of President Bush and the vice president.''
 A spokesman for Mr. Cheney declined to comment.
 Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush-Cheney campaign, said Mr. Kerry had consistently supported higher taxes on gasoline. ''President Bush and Vice President Cheney want to keep taxes low and keep the economy moving,'' Mr. Stanzel said. ''They have proposed an energy plan that will provide for a stable, affordable and secure energy supply.''
 Other lawmakers from energy-producing states had offered plans similar to Mr. Cheney's proposal in the mid-1980's after seeing thousands of constituents lose jobs in the oil-sector recession. Mr. Cheney said at the time that unemployment in Wyoming was 9 percent and he argued that the low prices could permanently impair domestic oil production and leave the United States at the mercy of foreign suppliers.
 But the oil-tax plans angered lawmakers from other states who said they would lead to plant closings.
 Senator John Heinz of Pennsylvania, a Republican, said in February 1987 that the proposals would add $1.3 billion per year to the energy costs of Pennsylvania consumers. He also cited a study done for a federal reserve bank suggesting that a $5 per barrel fee would lead to the loss of 400,000 jobs nationwide and cause inflation to soar.
 In a statement condemning the proposals to tax oil imports, Mr. Heinz said, ''I want to bring this vampire into daylight now before it sneaks out of Congress and drains the lifeblood from our economic recovery.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); TAX INCREASES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Taxation

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); JOHN KERRY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Richard A Jr Oppel; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%) Saudi Arabia; Wyoming

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



150 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: SADR CITY

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: In Shiite Enclave, Cheers Have Turned to Fury

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 5 

 BODY:
Almost a year ago, the Shiites of Sadr City were throwing flowers at American tanks that rumbled into Baghdad ending the rule of their longtime oppressor, Saddam Hussein.
 But on Monday, many Iraqis were filling plain wooden coffins with the bodies of their kin and neighbors, killed in a firefight with American armored forces that now patrol their impoverished neighborhood.
 ''After American forces ended the regime, we wanted to welcome them,'' said Mohsin Ghassab, a 42-year-old unemployed Iraqi, who is a resident of the predominantly Shiite district. ''But now there is no stability.'' 
 ''They have to withdraw,'' he said. ''To have them in tanks on our streets is unacceptable.''
 Eight American soldiers and about two dozen Iraqis died in the firefight that erupted Sunday in the streets of the teeming district known as Sadr City, which lies on Baghdad's northeastern rim and is home to more than two million Shiites.
 For American forces, the death toll amounted to one of the worst single losses in any confrontation since United States troops overthrew Mr. Hussein last April 9. 
 For the Iraqis in Sadr City, once among the most repressed of Mr. Hussein's victims, it meant a crushing blow to hopes that had initially flowered after they welcomed American troops with handshakes and cries of welcome last year.
 ''Freedom under the gun is no freedom at all,'' said Abdel Karim al-Shara.
 Along Chuwadir Street, which slices through the center of Sadr City, the disenchantment and fury about the continued military occupation, the lack of jobs and the instability indicated that the United States may have lost the hearts of a segment of the population it had perhaps initially won over by default.
 ''The Americans have no more business here,'' said Juma Majed, 40.
 Around him were signs of what happens when war is taken to the doorsteps of a rundown slum teeming with people.
 Six American tanks were lined up at a busy intersection, their turrets swinging languidly from side to side as cars and trucks honked and tried to outmaneuver each other to take up what little was left of the intersection. City buses packed with passengers pulled over to the side to make room for passing tanks.
 Little girls with schoolbags and old women with vegetable sacks walked past the tanks, guarding a police station that the militiamen had tried to take over.
 American soldiers crouched behind concrete blocks, their weapons trained on a huge crowd of Iraqi onlookers, who stood in crowds across the street and stared.
 Hand-painted lettering on an abandoned sidewalk juice stand extolled the virtues of apricot nectar. Above the writing, bullet holes shattered the glass. Casings littered the street and greasy coils of rubber, all that was left of burning tires, were plastered in the road.
 ''What kind of democracy is this?'' said Sheik Walid Hassan.
 The detritus of battle scattered about the streets called into question the success of the plan for American-backed Iraqi police to take control of the city.
 ''Mahdi Army men took over the police station,'' said a young man named Mohammed, speaking of the militiamen. ''The Iraqi police don't like problems. So they stepped aside and said, 'Welcome.' ''
 The human costs were in black and white on a list posted on the gates of Chuwadir Hospital, listing 18 people killed, and nearly 80 wounded. A hospital official later put the number of dead at 22.
 Frantic Iraqis gathered around the handwritten notice, scanning it for familiar names. ''A martyr,'' one man whispered, as he picked out a name next to which had been scrawled ''Dead.''
 So busy was the hospital that families waited their turns to bring out the bodies, sitting next to corpses until minivans or pickup trucks arrived, and then tying the coffins on top. The body of one old man was laid out on a blanket in the parking lot, a white sheet flapping loosely around his bloody feet and head. Relatives squatted silently next to him.
 As herds of goats and sheep feasted on mounds of garbage piled on the median dividing Chuwadir Street, the coffins were transported through the traffic to family homes, one last time, before being taken to the cemetery in the Shiite funeral tradition.
 And this was how the body of 63-year-old Salman Naser was carried through the threshold, one last time, for the women of his family and his 12 children to say good-bye.
 Members of Mr. Naser's family said he had been shot in the head, sitting in his threshold.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Relatives of Salman Naser, 63, including his 12 children, gathered yesterday at his home in Sadr City to mourn his death in a in a firefight on Sunday with American armored forces on patrol in the poor district. About two dozen Iraqis died in the battle. (Photo by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); TERRORISM (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); RELIGION (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Shiite Muslims; Labor; Unemployment; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) christine hauser

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Sadr CIty (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2004



151 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: New Worries As Joblessness Rises Sharply In Germany

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
Unemployment in Germany rose sharply last month, the German government reported yesterday, suggesting that even as the United States starts to generate jobs, the country that is the economic engine of Europe is being left behind.
 Analysts said the news put more pressure on European policy makers grasping for ways to lift the Continent from its economic malaise.
 The number of Germans out of work rose by 44,000 in March, lifting the jobless rate to 10.4 percent from 10.3 percent a month earlier. After signs of recovery in 2003 and early this year, Germany, along with its neighbors in the euro zone, seems to be stagnating, as growth picks up elsewhere in the world, analysts said. 
 ''We are increasingly worried about this reluctance to add jobs,'' said Holger Fahrinkrug, an economist at UBS in Frankfurt. ''There seems to be a great reluctance to increase the head count.''
 In the near term, he said, the weakness in the job market could provide a brief upturn to the euro zone economy, as companies improve profits by holding the line on costs. Indeed, some companies have stepped up capital spending, and industrial production has been rising.
 But without an upturn in hiring, a resurgence of consumer spending seems unlikely. Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, and other authorities have called sluggish consumer spending one of the biggest problems facing the euro zone's economy, and have asked shoppers to open their wallets, thus far in vain.
 The signs of a faltering euro zone recovery -- in addition to Germany's unemployment, business confidence has flagged recently after rising smartly in the second half of last year -- raise pressure on the European Central Bank to cut interest rates, analysts say. Yet they remain divided on whether the bank will act, after it left borrowing costs unchanged last week.
 Investors generally expect a reduction in the benchmark euro zone interest rate by the end of this year, with some saying it could come as early as this month, after Mr. Trichet made comments over the weekend suggesting that there might be room to maneuver.
 But comments by other officials indicated that no change in rates was likely anytime soon. Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, who has been nominated as Spain's representative to the 18-member policy-setting council of the European Central Bank, told the European Parliament on Tuesday that with interest rates at current levels, ''you cannot say at the present situation that monetary policy is harming'' prospects for growth.
 ''I would have thought there would be a pretty compelling case for a rate cut,'' said Michael Dicks, an economist at Lehman Brothers. ''If I were a policy maker, I'd be looking at anything I could do to provide a bit of stimulus.'' Mr. Fahrinkrug of UBS sees growth slowing in the 12 countries sharing the euro to 1.4 percent next year from 1.9 percent this year.
 Politicians have tried to put the burden on the European Central Bank because their hands are largely tied by European Union rules that try to impose fiscal discipline.
 Pedro Solbes, the European monetary affairs commissioner, told reporters in Brussels on Tuesday that the European Commission planned to warn 6 of the 15 European Union members on Wednesday on the size of their budget deficits. They are said to include five countries in the euro zone -- France, Germany, Greece, Italy and the Netherlands -- as well as Britain, which does not participate in the euro currency.
 The United States economy, in contrast to Germany's, added 308,000 jobs last month, easing concerns that the recovery is a jobless one. Japan's economy, too, has shown signs of life, with business confidence and stocks surging. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (66%) Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Unemployment

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%) European Union

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%) Eric Pfanner

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%) Germany; Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



152 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: After Nine Terms, an Upstate Congressman Says He Is Ready to Retire

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: CORNING, N.Y., April 6 

 BODY:
Before Amo Houghton on Tuesday announced his retirement from his Congressional career, he hushed the crowd and the keyboard player. ''Tell Donna to bring out the cake,'' he yelled. ''It's Jamie's birthday.'' 
 And with that, 100 or so supporters sang ''Happy Birthday'' to his brother, James R. Houghton, the chief executive of Corning Glass Works, the company started by the Houghton family and the place where Amo Houghton spent his first career. 
 His second career was an 18-year-stint in Congress, where he continued to become something of a local legend.
 Mr. Houghton, 77, represents a struggling section of the state's Southern Tier, and has decided recently that he was getting too old to continue. ''I don't want to be known as Strom Houghton,'' he said.
 Mr. Houghton planned a two-day tour through his district, announcing his retirement at local restaurants and favorite haunts from the Southern Tier to the Finger Lakes and into Rochester.
 During his two ventures, Mr. Houghton (pronounced HOE-ton) proved to be an independent thinker, someone hard to categorize. Though he is a multimillionaire and one of the wealthiest member of Congress, he feels more comfortable at the local diner than a jet-set party. ''He came into my diner in 1985 to ask if he could make an announcement that he was running for Congress, and he just kept coming in,'' said Donna Robbins, owner of Donna's restaurant, where he also made the first of several retirement announcements at stops in his district. 
 Though a loyal Republican, he was not afraid to vote against President Bill Clinton's impeachment and President Bush's quest for war with Iraq. The Southern Tier leans conservative Republican, while Mr. Houghton has chosen a moderate stance on many issues, including abortion and financing for the arts.
 In 1998, he founded a public policy organization, the Republican Main Street Partnership, which promotes moderate policies.
 He fought for basic improvements to his region, including the expansion of a two-lane highway to a four-lane interstate. More recently, he successfully opposed a federal plan to close a Veterans Affairs hospital in Canandaigua. ''His sole commitment is to the people of the Southern Tier and the 29th Congressional District,'' said State Senator John R. Kuhl Jr., who intends to run for Mr. Houghton's seat.
 During his retirement announcement to a packed crowd, Mr. Houghton said he would continue to try to help the beleaguered region he had represented. ''I think the future of our country is in places like this,'' he said.
 Much of western New York has suffered from a loss of manufacturing jobs and population. But he believes those problems are cyclical. ''I grew up in the 30's, and I remember the unemployment rate was 30 percent.''
 ''The area has always reinvented itself, and I believe it's always going to,'' he said.
 The company founded by Mr. Houghton's family has also gone through many cycles, including a recent downturn.
 Corning Inc., which is led by Mr. Houghton's brother, ventured into fiber optics, then struggled after the collapse of the telecommunications market. Since 2001, it has cut 3,500 jobs, or 40 percent of its local work force, and sold some of its subsidiaries.
 The news this week that it would not make the Fortune 500 list for the first time in years was met with resignation. Mr. Houghton said no city could afford to wed itself to one industry. ''You have to have creative people start new businesses,'' he said. 
 Mr. Houghton might have retired four years ago, but held off because of concerns that a pending redistricting plan might slice up his territory and redraw it in a way to make it vulnerable to a Democratic challenger.
 Recently, health has been a concern. He battled prostate cancer, and his wife, Priscilla, had lung cancer.
 After new lines were drawn, Mr. Houghton's district changed from the 31st to the 29th, and included parts of the Rochester region, which he said made the district stronger. 
 Assemblyman Brian Kolb, a Republican, who is also interested in running for Mr. Houghton's seat, said those urban areas may be of future benefit. ''Our largest concern is the economic prosperity of the region,'' he said. ''We haven't exploited our assets enough.''
 Gloria Matthews, a retired Corning Inc. employee who is a longtime supporter of Mr. Houghton's, said she thought he would continue to be committed to the area, and that it would ultimately recover. ''There's a resilience here,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Somewhat of a local legend, Representative Amo Houghton represents a struggling section of New York's Southern Tier. ''The area has always reinvented itself, and I believe it's always going to,'' he said yesterday. (Photo by Bill Wingell for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); IRAQ WAR (62%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CORNING INC (72%)

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (72%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (68%); JOHN R KUHL JR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



153 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia President's Party Loses Ground in Election

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, April 6 

 BODY:
President Megawati Sukarnoputri, whose party slumped in parliamentary elections on Monday, may have difficulty regaining the presidency in July, according to a national sample of returns released Tuesday. 
 The findings of the vote sample organized by the National Democratic Institute, a Washington-based organization financed by the United States, showed her Indonesian Democratic Party for Struggle in second place, behind Golkar, the party of the former dictator Suharto.
 Significantly, the rankings were determined by Mrs. Megawati's party's slippage rather than Golkar's gain. The count of 289,000 votes from the nation's 32 provinces projected that her party would win 18.8 percent of the vote, 14 percentage points below its first-place showing in 1999. 
 ''It shows that at this stage she is very vulnerable and it is a very difficult proposition for her to win'' in the July presidential election, said Yusuf Wanandi, founder of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta, and a veteran analyst of Indonesian politics. ''The emotional support for her does not exist anymore, and everyone knows she hasn't performed.'' 
 With a projected 22.7 percent of the vote, Golkar would have fared about as well as it did in 1999, when Mrs. Megawati's party, riding a tide of anti-Suharto feeling, easily defeated Golkar. 
 There had been some expectations that this time Golkar's support would surge well above its 1999 levels. But rather than show a wave of nostalgia for the era of General Suharto, voters -- certainly in Jakarta -- seemed to be saying they wanted more performance out of government.
 And so, urban voters appeared to have turned to two lesser-known parties: the Justice Party, which is an Islamic party, and the Democratic Party, whose standard-bearer, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, is a former general who served in Mrs. Megawati's cabinet. 
 Official counting moved ahead slowly on Tuesday as results trickled in from remote posts to regional headquarters and were then relayed to the central Election Commission in Jakarta. There were 147 million eligible voters, and turnout in many regions exceeded 80 percent. 
 Official results are not expected for a week, perhaps longer. 
 But at party headquarters around Jakarta, there was little disagreement that Mrs. Megawati's party had polled far below its 1999 standing. 
 Even with large numbers of votes still to be counted from the heartland of Java, Indonesia's most populated island and the place where Mrs. Megawati is expected to show residual strength, it seemed clear that she had lost considerable ground as a leader.
 ''There will be some reordering within Indonesia politics,'' said Paul Rowland, the National Democratic Institute's representative here. Mr. Rowland said that an attitude survey conducted by the institute showed that the issues of most concern to voters were jobs, the economy and education.
 In all those categories, Mrs. Megawati's government has been lethargic. About one-third of Indonesia's work force is unemployed or underemployed, and Indonesia's economic growth is among the weakest in Southeast Asia.
 The new Democratic Party appears to have won enough votes in the parliamentary election on Monday to nominate General Susilo as its presidential candidate in July.
 A political party must garner at least 5 percent of the popular vote to field a presidential candidate, and the party reached 7.3 percent in the institute's survey.
 The party benefited from General Susilo's military background and reputed lack of corruption. ''Susilo now has a vehicle and that puts him in a spot where he can be a leading presidential candidate,'' Mr. Rowland said. 
 The Justice Party also passed the threshold with 7.2 percent in the institute's survey. Although it wants Islamic law in Indonesia, the party stressed anticorruption themes and education in its campaign rather than religion.
 Rakyat Merdeka, a Jakarta newspaper known for its irreverent headlines, summed up some of the mood here with a front-page banner on Tuesday morning: ''Hello Jakarta: Just Say Goodbye to the White Mouth.''
 The campaign mascot of Mrs. Megawati's party was the face of a black buffalo -- a beloved animal among Java's peasants -- with a white mouth -- a symbol of honesty. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RANKINGS (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); RELIGION (50%) Politics and Government; Elections

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (84%) National Democratic Institute for International Affairs

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (59%) Jane Perlez; Megawati Sukarnoputri (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (94%) INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Indonesia; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



154 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: As NATO Grows, So Do Russia's Worries

BYLINE: By Sergei Ivanov. 
Sergei Ivanov is Russia's minister of defense.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Russians have been remarkably calm about the latest stage in NATO's eastward enlargement -- the addition of seven new members, including the neighboring Baltic states, last week. However, one question remains on all our minds: why is an organization that was designed to oppose the Soviet Union and its allies in Eastern Europe still necessary in today's world?
 This concern is all the more pressing given the events of the last few years indicating that the alliance is looking to consolidate international security by military means. The first wave of NATO enlargement in 1999, when it admitted Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, was followed by a political and military crisis in Yugoslavia. The timing may have been coincidental, but nonetheless NATO was emboldened to launch cruise missiles against Belgrade and then (with Russian assistance) to enter Kosovo. 
 It is obvious now that the problems of the region have not been solved. The recent violence in Kosovo and Macedonia has left dozens of people dead and hundreds wounded, while many Orthodox churches have been burned down and thousands of homes destroyed. 
 Many Russians are also worried by the American-led campaign against the Taliban and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan. While it was successfully launched -- and supported by Russia -- this campaign too has failed to attain its objectives. International terrorist groups are stepping up their activities, Qaeda members are infiltrating the Middle East, and the Taliban is to some extent reviving its military potential. The failure last month by Pakistani forces to capture a Qaeda contingent on that country's border with Afghanistan was an indicative setback. 
 And, of course, Iraq is now occupied by the United States and its allies, including some of the countries now joining NATO. It has become a magnet attracting terrorists from the East of the Arab world. More than 600 American soldiers and 100 other NATO troops have already been killed, not to mention the civilian death toll. The recent terrorist attack in Madrid should be seen as yet another link in the chain of violence.
 Russia's position is not that of a malicious onlooker, gloating over America's and NATO's failures. On the contrary, despite the differences that still exist between Russia and NATO, we want to cooperate with the alliance to ensure global security. This is why the Russia-NATO Council, an advisory group designed to give Russia a voice equal to that of member states, was established at a summit in Rome in 2002. 
 The council has borne fruit. Russia has been engaged in many joint programs, including efforts against international terrorism and against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the missiles that could deliver them. Russia and NATO are also working to build a missile-defense system in Europe; they have approved a mandate that lays out specific cooperation guidelines over the next two years, and have held joint antimissile staff exercises in the United States.
 Last year the parties launched a joint effort to improve the compatibility of Russia's armed forces with those of NATO, which should help us carry out joint operations. More than 20 military exercises have been conducted in Russia and NATO member states. The agreement on rescuing submarine crews in distress, signed last year, is another example of practical cooperation.
 Still, Russia feels there is much more to do. First, we would like the programs described in the Rome summit's declaration to receive higher priority. These include not only the development of European missile defense, but also plans for disposal of military hardware -- including anti-personnel mines -- and for the modernization and maintenance of Soviet-made armaments still in use in some NATO countries. Each of these projects will benefit all parties militarily, politically and, above all, economically.
 Making progress on these and other fronts, however, means settling differences through dialogue. Such discussions are jeopardized by the alliance's hurried expansion. Russia's military and political leadership has good reason to be concerned about the integration of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, particularly if NATO decides to create large military bases in those countries. The alliance is gaining greater ability to control and monitor Russian territory. We cannot turn a blind eye as NATO's air and military bases get much closer to cities and defense complexes in European Russia. 
 Our fears are magnified by the fact that long-discussed adjustments to the Treaty of Conventional Armed Forces in Europe still have not been concluded. The Baltic countries and another new NATO member, Slovenia, are not signatories. Their accession to the alliance has produced a ''grey zone'' in Europe's conventional arms control system that could allow the alliance to deploy any amount of heavy weaponry within them. Moreover, there has been little effort by the NATO leadership in Brussels or the by the governments in those member states to ease Russia's concerns. 
 This flies in the face of steps Russia has taken reduce its military presence in the region. There are no longer offensive units in Russia's Leningrad military district or its Kaliningrad region that neighbor the Baltic states. The units deployed there are trained to perform defense duties only. 
 We are also concerned about the United States' plans to rearrange its military abroad, including in Europe. America is planning to shift some of its Western European bases closer to Russia's borders. Washington assures us that this is intended to save money and improve its ability to fight terrorism around the globe. Yet these arguments do not stand up under scrutiny, and any potential gains pale in comparison to what could be lost in terms of NATO-Russian relations.
 My belief is that if our partners seriously understood our concerns, they would do everything possible not to alienate Russia or damage its interests. We would welcome talks with Washington on all these matters. Only by taking account of each other's opinions will worries be transformed into understanding.
 Yet NATO's actions have been in the opposite direction. Most worrisome was the NATO summit in Prague in 2002, during which the alliance gave itself approval to undertake military operations even outside the territory of the alliance's member nations, whenever it may be deemed necessary. Nowhere in the post-summit statement does it say that NATO would require a United Nations mandate for such actions.
 I believe that the United Nations alone can authorize the use of military force across internationally recognized borders. Any NATO action not approved by the United Nations should therefore be considered illegal -- including ''preventive wars'' like that in Iraq. However, should this new principle of the preventive use of force come to be seen as legitimate in international affairs, Russia will have no choice but to adapt as well, and to act in order to ensure its national interests.
 The complex disagreements between Moscow and Brussels, and between Moscow and Washington, can only be settled through dialogue and mutual trust. Thanks to the Rome summit, the parties have a relevant diplomatic mechanism and a recent history of cooperation. But to move ahead, our partners in the Russia-NATO Council must show that they take seriously our concerns about the alliance's approach to our borders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (66%); AL-QAEDA (66%); APPROVALS (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); AL-QAEDA (55%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: Sergei (Min) Ivanov

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); POLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); HUNGARY (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (74%) Europe; Russia

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



155 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Labor's Lost Jobs

BYLINE: By Tim Kane. 
Tim Kane is a research fellow in macroeconomics in the Center for Data Analysis at The Heritage Foundation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Friday brought good news on the economic front, with the Labor Department reporting that 308,000 jobs were added last month. But total payroll employment still appears sickly if one looks back over the last three years. There have been two million jobs lost since March 2001. Or have there?
 It depends, as usual, on which statistics you use. And there is reason to doubt the numbers from the payroll survey, which the Labor Department has used since 1939, because they give a misleading picture of the 2004 economy. 
 The payroll survey counts jobs, not workers. But counting payroll jobs is a questionable way of measuring America's evolving work force, especially in light of declining job turnover. The payroll survey's biggest problem is that it systematically double counts workers when they change jobs. Since somewhere between 2 percent and 3 percent of the work force changes employers every month, payrolls tend to be noisy. The illusion of lost jobs in recent years occurred because job turnover declined after 2000, first with the recession, then even more sharply after 9/11. As a result, 1 million jobs have been artificially ''lost'' in the payroll survey since 2001.
 Despite last month's jobs surge, the payroll survey remains stubbornly out of whack with other economic indicators, even other labor indicators. Unemployment has been very low and is now near what economists call a ''natural'' rate. Real earnings rose by 3 percent over the last three years. Jobless claims are 10 percent below their historical average, and that's without adjusting for population.
 The sharpest contrast can be seen by looking at the Labor Department's household survey, which shows a record high level of total employment. This survey reported an employment level of 138.3 million as of March -- 600,000 more working Americans since President Bush took office in 2001. 
 Since the recession ended in November 2001, the payroll survey has reported 323,000 fewer payroll jobs, but the household survey has found 1.9 million more overall jobs. Common sense tells us that payroll jobs aren't the end-all, be-all of jobs in the new economy. Economists reflexively like payroll data because it has a bigger sample, but quantity doesn't always ensure quality.
 An even bigger problem with the payroll survey is the evolution of what constitutes work. We can think of the payroll survey as counting all workers at traditional firms, plus some workers at start-up companies who have payroll records. But the payroll survey doesn't count individuals who are self-employed -- despite the fact that their ranks have surged by at least 650,000 in just two years.
 Then there are limited liability companies, a new form of business the Joint Tax Committee says is growing at an annual rate of 34 percent. Consider, too, the rise of consultants, like a marketing executive who was once on the I.B.M. payroll but who has switched to a freelance consulting role with I.B.M. None of these employees are counted in the payroll survey.
 Even so, this is not the first time the survey has been off. That's why the Labor Department warns against using the real-time payroll figures in the footnotes of its monthly release. In 1992, the media proclaimed a jobless recovery based on preliminary payroll data. Only later did benchmark revisions correct the data that the public sees today, which show the net creation of 900,000 jobs in the year prior to the 1992 elections. The next major payroll revision won't occur until January 2005.
 Payroll employment may well continue to surge in the next few months. If it does, it will be a vindication of economic optimists who have pointed to the household survey as the better jobs indicator of the last three years. We should be prepared for the job numbers in the payroll survey to permanently look anemic compared to other measures. This is the brave new economy, and the work force of 2004 can no longer be measured by an outdated definition of a job.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Pascal Lemaitre) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SALARY SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); STATISTICS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); STARTUPS (64%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (60%) Labor; Unemployment; Statistics; Wages and Salaries; Labor

ORGANIZATION: HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%) Heritage Foundation; Labor Department (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Tim Kane

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



156 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: White House Minimized the Risks of Mercury in Proposed Rules, Scientists Say

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5 

 BODY:
While working with Environmental Protection Agency officials to write regulations for coal-fired power plants over several recent months, White House staff members played down the toxic effects of mercury, hundreds of pages of documents and e-mail messages show.
 The staff members deleted or modified information on mercury that employees of the environmental agency say was drawn largely from a 2000 report by the National Academy of Sciences that Congress had commissioned to settle the scientific debate about the risks of mercury. 
 In interviews, 6 of 10 members of the academy's panel on mercury said the changes did not introduce inaccuracies. They said that many of the revisions sharpened the scientific points being made and that justification could be made for or against other changes. Most changes were made by the White House's Office of Management and Budget, which employs economists and scientists to review regulations. 
 But scientists on the academy panel and others outside it as well as environmentalists and politicians expressed concern in recent interviews that a host of subtle changes by White House staff members resulted in proposed rules that played down the health risks associated with mercury from coal-fired power plants. The proposal largely tracks suggestions from the energy industry.
 While the panel members said the changes did not introduce outright errors, they said they were concerned because the White House almost uniformly minimized the health risks in instances where there could be disagreement.
 ''What they are saying is not scientifically invalid on its face,'' said Alan Stern, a New Jersey toxicologist who served on the panel. ''Partially they edited for clarity and relevance from a scientific standpoint. But there appears to be an emphasis on wordsmithing that is not necessarily dictated by the science.''
 Last Thursday attorneys general from 10 states and 45 senators asked the E.P.A. to scrap the proposed rules, saying they were not strict enough. 
 They also asked Michael O. Leavitt, the agency's administrator, to extend the comment period for the rules, which now ends April 30. Under a court-ordered agreement, the rules are to be in final form by Dec. 15. 
 In some cases, White House staff members suggested phrasing that minimized the links between power plants and elevated levels of mercury in fish, the primary source from which Americans accumulate mercury in their bodies, in a form known as methylmercury.
 The academy has found that exposure to elevated levels of mercury can damage the brains of children and fetuses. 
 In another instance, a draft passage originally read, ''Recent published studies have shown an association between methylmercury exposure and an increased risk of heart attacks and coronary disease in adult men.'' 
 It was changed to ''it has been hypothesized that there is an association between methylmercury exposure and an increased risk of coronary disease; however this warrants further study as the new studies currently available present conflicting results.'' 
 The change understates known science, some academy panel members said in interviews.
 The proposed regulations are available on the E.P.A. Web site (epa.gov/). The proposed rules would limit mercury emissions by an estimated 70 percent over decades and would also allow power plants to buy and sell among themselves the rights to create mercury pollution.
 Mr. Leavitt is reconsidering elements of the rules.
 Small amounts of mercury occur naturally in the environment. In December 2000, however, the environmental agency concluded that mercury from power plants should be classified as a hazardous air pollutant to be strictly regulated under the Clean Air Act. In December 2003, the Bush administration reversed that finding.
 The proposed regulations for power plants -- the single-largest source of mercury emissions in the United States -- are the culmination of 14 years of lawsuits, scientific review and government reports. 
 Coal and utility groups lobbied intensively to help shape the regulations, which will cost billions of dollars. Paragraphs in the proposed rules are inserted nearly verbatim from memorandums from the firm of Latham & Watkins, where two top political officials in the E.P.A.'s office overseeing air regulations, Bill Wehrum and Jeffrey Holmstead, once worked. 
 White House officials and E.P.A. political appointees say the changes in the draft rules reflect the typical back and forth of developing regulations among agencies, and environmental agency officials had the option of rejecting the suggestions, which in some cases they did.
 ''This is a standard collaborative process that involved experts across the government to create a solid product,'' said Dana Perino, the spokeswoman from the Council on Environmental Quality, which coordinates federal environmental efforts.
 But some critics are not convinced. ''This is a pattern of undermining and disregarding science on political considerations,'' said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, citing a recent letter by the Union of Concerned Scientists, signed by 60 scientists, including 20 Nobel laureates, which criticized the administration's handling of science issues.
 Others feel the White House's Office of Management and Budget is overstepping its bounds. ''O.M.B.'s role is supposed to be to review the economics of rules -- which they did very poorly here -- not to fly speck the science and minimize health threats,'' said Lisa Heinzerling, a professor at Georgetown University who is a co-author of the book ''Priceless,'' on cost-benefit analysis.
 Throughout an E.P.A. draft of the proposed regulations circulated in November, a White House staff member crossed out the word ''confirmed'' from the phrase describing mercury as a ''confirmed public health risk.'' In some instances, sentences in the final proposals were changed to mercury ''warrants regulation.'' 
 Mr. Wehrum, the chief counsel of E.P.A.'s air regulation office, said that the handwritten changes were prompted by his agency's desire to use more precise legal language from the Clean Air Act.
 Some members of the National Academy said that sections of the regulations on health effects could have been made more clear, but that the science was strong enough not to delete them entirely.
 An official with the Office of Management and Budget who emphasized that neurologic risks to children were the most important concern, said language on other health effects was deleted or softened for a number of reasons. In some cases the draft had overstated the known science, while in others, like cerebral palsy, the effects were not relevant to mercury exposure in fish or power plants. 
 Even taking into account studies that have been published since their report in 2000, some panel members said the language was made too soft in several cases.
 ''There is increasing evidence of an association between mercury exposure and cardiovascular effects,'' said Thomas Burke, an epidemiologist from Johns Hopkins University and a member of the panel. ''I would call it stronger than a hypothesis.''
 In another case, a toxicologist with the Office of Management and Budget recommended changes to a sentence saying children exposed to mercury in the womb ''are at increased risk of poor performance on neurobehavioral tests.'' The final sentence that was published said children ''may be at increased risk.'' That pattern was repeated a number of times throughout regulations where ''are'' or ''can'' was changed to ''may.'' The official said that the softened language reflected the fact that low levels of mercury exposure below the safe dose were not known to be risky, even to children. 
 Other scientists interpret the edit differently. Joseph L. Jacobson, a professor of psychology at Wayne State University, who served on the academy panel, said, '' 'May be' suggests an effort to discount the fact that we have consistent evidence across more than one study.''
 While it is standard for the White House to review federal agency testimony and reports, E.P.A. staff members say the Bush administration also minimized the amount of mercury that comes from power plants. Over agency staff objections, the White House on several occasions in the past year added the statement that coal burning produces ''roughly one percent of mercury in the global pool.''
 According to the E.P.A. staff, the 1 percent figure was added to an agency report on children's health; Senate testimony by Christie Whitman, who was the E.P.A. administrator; and Senate testimony of Mr. Holmstead, who is the assistant agency administrator for air.
 While that figure is cited in the E.P.A.'s 1997 report to Congress, agency staff members and independent scientists say it is misleading because much of the mercury that ends up in the nation's water and soil comes from nearby sources.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Editing a Proposed Rule on Mercury''A proposal on regulating emissions of mercury, or Hg, was softened during editing by White House officials. The version that was eventually issued placed less emphasis on potential public health hazards.The E.P.A.'s draft rule with comments by White House staff -- Dec. 8, 2003The proposed rule as published in the Federal Register -- Jan. 30, 2004Environmental Protection Agency officials say that although the White House made the notations, they were made at the E.P.A.'s urging. Lawyers at the E.P.A. say the phrase ''warrant regulation'' better reflects the language of the Clean Air Act. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); TOXICOLOGY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SEAFOOD (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); BUDGETS (68%); MEN'S HEALTH (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%) Air Pollution; Mercury (Metal); Electric Light and Power; Coal; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Computers and the Internet; Electronic Mail; Air Pollution; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Factories and Industrial Plants

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%) National Academy of Sciences; Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (58%) Jennifer 8 Lee; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



157 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1; Hollywood Competes With the Street in Russia

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: To Combat Rampant DVD Piracy, U.S. Film Companies Cut Prices

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 6 

 BODY:
The American film industry is fighting rampant DVD piracy in Russia with a radical new tactic: cutting prices.
 To fight piracy here, where 9 out of 10 DVD's sold are counterfeit copies, Columbia TriStar, a division of Sony, will price DVD's at no more than 299 rubles, or just over $10, less than half its current price. Warner Home Video, a division of Time Warner, has already cut its DVD prices in Russia to the equivalent of $15. 
 ''The idea is to get Russian consumers used to buying licensed material, but at a price that most of the population can afford,'' said Vyacheslav Dobychin, general director of Columbia TriStar's licensee here. Columbia TriStar is setting up its own factory outside of downtown Moscow, which later this month is to start churning out licensed copies of ''Bad Boys 2,'' ''Big Fish,'' ''S.W.A.T.'' and other movie hits. 
 The low-price idea has long been anathema to industry advocates in the United States. ''You can never compete on price with a pirate,'' said Jack Valenti in a recent telephone interview. The longtime president of the Motion Picture Association of America, he has made stern copyright enforcement his rallying cry.
 But Hollywood appears to be running out of options in Russia. Piracy is getting worse, says Konstantin Zemchenkov, director of the Russian Anti-Piracy Organization, a group partly financed by Hollywood studios and the Motion Picture Association of America, which is leading the fight against producers, distributors and retailers of pirated discs and videos in Russia.
 A former KGB officer, Mr. Zemchenkov said that piracy in Russia accounted for 9 out of every 10 DVD's sold and 6 out of every 10 CD's. His numbers stand in sharp contrast to estimates by the Trade and Economic Development Ministry that counterfeit disc sales fell 15 to 20 percent in 2003 from the previous year, when pirated production accounted for 76 to 86 percent of sales. 
 So far, a number of leading music labels in the United States and Britain have been content to file lawsuits against Russia's largest producers of audio, video and software. 
 Russian DVD distributors, however, said they had to find a way to compete with the street. As an example Mr. Dobychin cited Disney's animated children's feature ''Brother Bear,'' which is just lighting up theater screens in Moscow. Already, he notes, pirated copies are for sale for 120 rubles (about $4). ''The DVD quality is perfect,'' he said. ''And yet licensed DVD's of 'Brother Bear' will only arrive in September of 2004. That's just too late.'' 
 At Gorbushka, a vast CD and DVD bazaar southeast of downtown Moscow, a pirated copy of Mel Gibson's ''Passion of the Christ,'' not yet released in theaters here, fetches about $4. The stunningly professional DVD box and disc are lined with Cyrillic titles, and the movie is programmed to play in several foreign languages, including French, English and Russian. 
 On weekends, Gorbushka, the largest pirated CD and DVD market in Europe, is packed with hundreds of Russian families cruising for a middle-class good time: the latest software (Microsoft Excel: $3), music (Norah Jones's latest album: $2.50) and computer games (The Sims Livin' Large: $4). For educated city dwellers whose tastes outstrip their incomes -- the average monthly wage is $200 -- Gorbushka is a cultural motherlode. For the most part, the Russian Anti-Piracy Organization has devoted its resources to shutting down counterfeiting plants instead of markets. 
 Columbia TriStar argues that its price war represents the vanguard in the fight against piracy here. Moreover, homegrown factories will help create jobs and avoid import and customs duties. Other film and music studios may have no choice but to follow.
 ''Major studios understand that this situation is different here,'' Mr. Dobychin said. ''And other studios will come around to that point of view,'' he predicted, both by lowering prices and by starting to produce here in Russia. ''I don't know of one studio that hasn't at least thought about it,'' he added. A licensed but imported DVD carries so many customs duties and import taxes, that by the time the discs arrive from overseas, the price can range from $20 to $30.
 ''We now import from Western Europe,'' said Gregory Economou, vice president for licensee markets at Warner Home Video Europe, based in London. ''We would like to find a way to replicate locally, and we're looking for a suitable local partner.'' Warner Home Video and its Russian distributor, Premier Video Film, have cut prices on licensed DVD's, and Premier Video will also sell discs more cheaply to retailers who stick with the recommended retail price, to combat piracy.
 ''Socially, it's crucial to cut prices,'' said Christopher Abel-Smith, the Moscow-based general director of Premier. ''You can't just feed that top 1 percent of the population. You need to make product available to everyone, to low-income people.'' He pointed out that Russians could now buy a new German-made Rolsen DVD player for about $60. ''So it's unlikely they spend $20 for one DVD,'' he said.
 Most Russians, including law-enforcement agents, don't view buying or producing pirated goods as a serious crime. And Russia has historically copied the West: Stalin was an avid fan of Detroit sedans. He decreed in 1942 that ''the workers' paradise'' should produce a new limo, so the Russian limos were stamped right from the dies of the 1941 Packard Super 8. Soviet bloc nations built their computer industry around smuggled I.B.M. and Digital Equipment machines and contraband software. In the 1940's the Soviets copied piece by piece the American B-29, the only plane capable of transporting nuclear weapons at the time. 
 ''It's part of the Soviet legacy,'' said Timothy Swanson, with the United States Embassy's commercial section here, which has been battling piracy on behalf of American film and music companies. ''An artist was an artist -- he got paid a salary. There weren't royalties for artists or composers. Everything was owned by the state -- for 70 years intellectual property rights never existed.''
 This culture helps explain why ''it often feels like we are fighting the sea,'' said Mr. Zemchenkov, director of the antipiracy group. His cramped downtown offices here house hundreds of ''disc spindles'' and boxes of pirated entertainment purloined in frequent raids -- so many that they are stacked in the bathroom. The group conducted three warehouse raids just last week, one netting several thousand discs and $500,000 in cash.
 Intellectual-property legislation is wending its way through Russia's parliament, and the police continue stepping up their raids. 
 In late February Moscow's regional Economic Crime Police mounted a raid on a clandestine DVD plant in Pushkino, a city about 20 miles from here. Authorities seized new DVD production lines; about 800 stampers; 25,000 pirated DVD's of films like ''Snowboarder'' and all three ''Lord of the Rings'' titles; artwork for ''Indiana Jones'' movie boxes and ''Tomb Raider'' computer games; and pornography. 
 Mr. Valenti, who will soon leave his decades-long post as president of the Motion Picture Association, insists, ''The only way to kill piracy in Russia is strong copyright law with stern penalties and government resolve to enforce that law.''
 But there is another way, said Mr. Dobychin of Columbia TriStar's licensee here: ''We're changing distribution from the 'exclusive model' to the 'mass model' in Russia. Our goal is to fight piracy, and with lower prices, we can finally compete.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At Gorbushka, a Moscow bazaar selling licensed and pirated DVD's and CD's, a sign set up by anti-piracy groups reads, ''When you buy pirated, you steal from yourself!'' (Photo by Yola Moankhov/Panos Pictures)(pg. E5)
Left, a stand outside the Gorbushka market in Moscow sells pirated DVD's
 the Gorbushka market, above, sells both pirated and licensed DVD's and CD's. (Photographs by Yola Moankhov/Panos Pictures)(pg. E1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MUSIC & VIDEO WHOLESALERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ANIMATION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COPYRIGHT (73%); RETAILERS (72%); RETAIL SALES (69%) 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%) Columbia/tristar Motion Picture Cos; Time Warner Inc

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

PERSON: Erin E Arvedlund; Konstantin Zemchenkov

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%) Russia; Moscow (Russia)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



158 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Qantas Airways Discloses Plan For Low-Cost Singapore Carrier

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, April 6 

 BODY:
Qantas Airways waded into the contest for Asian budget travelers on Tuesday, saying that it would set up a low-cost carrier in Singapore with a group of local investors that includes the government agency that owns a majority stake in a rival, Singapore Airlines.
 Geoff Dixon, Qantas's chief executive, said in Singapore that the new airline was seeking approval from local authorities to start operations by the end of the year. Qantas, the Australian carrier, will invest about 50 million Singapore dollars ($30 million) for a 49.9 percent stake in the new airline, while Temasek Holdings, the powerful investment arm of the Singapore government, will own 19 percent. Two local businessmen will hold the remainder. 
 ''Asia has the fastest-growing aviation sector in the world, and we believe it's a good opportunity and fertile ground for low-cost carriers,'' Mr. Dixon said in an interview.
 The move by Qantas comes at a time of great transition for the airline industry. Besides the harm from the post-Sept. 11 drop in business, established carriers in Europe and the United States have had their profits and market shares eroded by low-cost upstarts.
 Though business has been looking better for many of the bigger Asian carriers in the last year, similar pressures are being felt in the region.
 Analysts said the involvement of Temasek virtually guaranteed that authorities would approve the venture. 
 ''This is very much a sign of the times,'' said Peter Harbison, managing director of the Center for Asia-Pacific Aviation in Sydney. ''We're seeing a wholehearted revolution in airline regulation in Asia.''
 Singapore has historically relied on its role as a port for goods moving around the region; transportation, both by sea and air, remains a critical element of its economy. But now Singapore is moving to defend its role as a hub for air travel as the proliferation of low-cost carriers offering direct links between Asian cities redraws the travelers' map of Southeast Asia.
 Singapore is already planning to build an airport terminal designed to accommodate budget airlines. Singapore's founding prime minister and senior statesman, Lee Kuan Yew, recently warned Singapore Airlines that the government intended to protect the airport's competitiveness, even if it came at the flag carrier's expense.
 Fortunately for Singapore and its airline, this is still the early days for the Asian budget airline industry. While at least nine low-cost carriers have started flying in the region or have announced plans to do so, only two have managed to start flying into Singapore -- a small Indonesian carrier, Lion Air, and Air Asia Thailand, a venture of the Malaysian discount carrier Air Asia and the company controlled by the family of the Thai prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra. A third carrier, Singapore-based Valuair, is scheduled to begin service this year.
 Analysts said the low-cost carriers were poised to transform the Asian travel industry, enabling millions to travel by air for the first time. Already, Singapore Airlines has established its own budget airline with the founders of the Irish discount carrier, Ryanair. That airline, Tiger Airways, is scheduled to begin flying by the end of this year.
 Temasek, which owns roughly 57 percent of Singapore Airlines and 11 percent of Tiger Airways, denied that its investment with Qantas represented a conflict of interest. ''We think this new player will increase the pie,'' said Rachel Lin, a spokeswoman for Temasek. She ruled out any political or strategic motive.
 ''Our interest is strictly for financial returns; we see both of them as potentially attractive investments,'' she said.
 Mr. Dixon said Qantas's experience would give the new Singapore airline a head start against competitors. Qantas already runs a low-fare regional carrier called Australian Airlines, and is countering inroads by Virgin Blue by setting up its own discount airline for the Australian domestic market, Jetstar. Jetstar will start flying in late May, Mr. Dixon said.
 Qantas has begun applying for a license to operate an airline from Singapore and for traffic rights, Mr. Dixon said, and has held numerous discussions with Singaporean officials. 
 ''I don't think we'll have any trouble getting an air operator's certificate,'' he said.
 The new airline will fly single-aisle aircraft to destinations within five hours of Singapore, meaning it could reach any point in Southeast Asia as well as China, India and even Australia. 
 Mr. Dixon said that Qantas had some routes in mind, but which ones the airline eventually flies will depend on discussions with Singaporean transport authorities. He said Qantas expected the new airline to be profitable within a year of operation.
 Given the growth potential in Asia, the Qantas move appeared to be a smart one, Mr. Harbison of the aviation center said. ''It's a very low-cost investment with substantial upside,'' he said.
 Qantas executives said they did not intend the new airline to pose a threat to existing carriers, but Mr. Harbison said it was definitely a shot across the bow of Singapore Airlines. Investors also took the news as a direct challenge: stock of Singapore Airlines fell almost 2 percent on Tuesday after the Qantas announcement.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Geoff Dixon, the chief of Qantas Airways, in Singapore yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. W1)
 Singapore Airlines, which has its own low-fare operation, faces competition from the new Qantas venture. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (73%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Capital Investment; Foreign Investments; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (90%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Qantas Airways; Singapore Airlines; Temasek Holdings

TICKER: QAN (ASX) (90%); C6L (SGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%)

PERSON: Wayne Arnold; Geoff Dixon

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) SINGAPORE (99%); ASIA (96%); THAILAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Singapore; Australia

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



159 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Westchester

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: From Canyons of Manhattan To Serene Old Haunt of I.B.M.

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: MOUNT PLEASANT, N.Y., March 31 

 BODY:
In June, after a year of upgrades in a long-vacant 383,000-square-foot building designed in the early 1970's for I.B.M., New York Life Insurance will begin moving 1,000 employees here from Manhattan to the Mount Pleasant Executive Center.
 In preparing the 76-acre campus for its new tenant, contractors gutted the building, designed by Edward Larrabee Barnes, but left the exterior and grounds much as they had been when I.B.M.'s Americas/Far East headquarters moved in.
 ''Because the building has aged well structurally, the basic integrity and design of the original Barnes design has been preserved,'' said Vasant Kshirsagar, the architect in charge of the upgrade for Grad Associates of Newark. The building was rewired for high-speed transmission of voice and data. In addition, Mr. Kshirsagar said, contractors installed new heating and air-conditioning, an automatic sprinkler system and new carpeting and ceiling tiles. 
 The open-space design of the floors, each about the size of three football fields, is being maintained -- with walls of new workstations reaching only part way to the ceilings to preserve views from most sections of the building through the expansive windows.
 Outside, the building remains essentially the same: an ethereal-looking green metal and glass three-story structure. Thirty years ago, when I.B.M. bought the site from the Rockefeller family, it was stipulated that the new office building would blend in with the surrounding landscape and not degrade the meadowland views from the windows, terraces and gardens of the Rockefeller mansions at the family complex nearby in Pocantico Hills.
 Also toward that end, the building's W shape was chosen to reduce the appearance of a corporate structure sprawling across an untouched landscape. Mr. Barnes, who was trained in the International style by Walter Gropius and Marcel Breuer at Harvard University, said in a book, ''Edward Larrabee Barnes: Architect'' (Rizzoli), that he was ''determined not to build a glaring suburban misfit.''
 The front of Mr. Barnes's building, which is on a slope, has two stories. The rear has three stories, with floor-to-ceiling windows threaded horizontally from edge to edge.
 A fish-stocked moat follows the contours of the back of the building -- the bottom and outside perimeter of the W. That side faces east, with views of the sunrise, and of deer and wild turkeys in a woodland area nearby. 
 New York Life bought the campus last April for $35 million from a joint venture of the Gale Company of Florham Park, N.J., and a Morgan Stanley real estate investment fund, which acquired it from I.B.M. in the mid-90's. It has been essentially empty since then. A division of Gale is the general contractor for the renovations.
 The decision to move was prompted in large part by the company's desire to diversify operations after the September 2001 attacks in Manhattan, where about 4,000 workers are employed, a New York Life spokesman, William Werfelman, said.
 Its Manhattan site at 51 Madison Avenue, between 26th and 27th Streets, will remain the corporate headquarters; New York Life is seeking to lease 290,000 square feet of the 925,000 in the building.
 In looking for a new site, executives drew a 30-mile circle around New York City and began searching for 350,000 to 400,000 square feet of contiguous space, Ronald Terry, a first vice president, said.
 The Mount Pleasant site offered relatively quick occupancy, with the move-in planned less than two years from the acquisition date. ''Building from scratch might have taken three to four years,'' Mr. Werfelman said. The company explored options in New Jersey and Connecticut as well.
 The Industrial Development Agency of Westchester County granted New York Life about $1.7 million in sales tax exemptions last year for the purchase and installation of building material, furniture and equipment. 
 Teri Waivada, deputy director of economic development for the county and executive director of the development agency, noted that many of the employees in the company's life insurance and annuity operations who are being transferred hold positions beyond entry level and will have disposable income to spend in local restaurants and shops. 
 It is also expected, she said, that some employees will rent or buy new housing going up in places like downtown White Plains and on the Yonkers waterfront.


GRAPHIC: Photo: New York Life's new Westchester building retains the exterior's mood. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, through February.Graph tracks building permits (regionally in thousands) for the Northeast, South, West, and Midwest from 2000-2004.NATIONAL IN THOUSANDSFEB. 2003 -- 124.2DEC. 2003 -- 145.2JAN. 2004 -- 126.5FEB. 2004 -- 131.2(Source by U.S. Census Bureau)Map of Westchester highlighting the location of the New York Life Westchester campus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (60%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Relocation of Personnel; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: BARNES GROUP INC (85%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) New York Life Insurance Co; International Business Machines Corp

TICKER: B (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332613 SPRING MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS332119 METAL CROWN, CLOSURE & OTHER METAL STAMPING (EXCEPT AUTOMOTIVE) (85%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (74%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%) Mount Pleasant (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



160 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Technology Shares Fall After a Warning From Nokia

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Technology stocks fell yesterday as a disappointing forecast from the cellphone giant Nokia led to a sell-off in heavyweights like I.B.M. and Intel. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average ended slightly higher. The Nasdaq composite index dipped after three days of gains that had taken it to a six-week high.
 Nokia, the world's largest cellphone maker, trimmed its quarterly earnings forecast yesterday and said its handsets had not kept pace with consumer demands, allowing rivals to take away market share. The news unsettled Wall Street as it readied to enter the prime period for quarterly earnings reports. 
 ''We're in a mode right now where there is so much caution that the markets are in a wait-and-see attitude, with first-quarter earnings really coming out next week,'' said Ozan Akcin, chief market strategist at Puglisi & Company.
 ''Nokia was the first announcement that caught people by surprise,'' said William Dwyer, chief investment officer at MTB Investment Advisors in Baltimore. ''But I don't think it's the beginning of weaker earnings across the board.'' Shares of Nokia that are traded in the United States were the most actively traded on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. They fell $3.94, or 18.6 percent, to $17.21 after its profit warning.
 The Nasdaq ended down 19.22 points, or 0.92 percent, at 2,059.90. The Dow average closed up 12.44 points, or 0.12 percent, at 10,570.81. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.41 points, or 0.21 percent, to 1,148.16.
 Trading was moderate, with 1.4 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange and about 1.8 billion on Nasdaq, matching last year's daily averages. Decliners outnumbered advancers by about 21-to-12 on the Big Board and by about 21-to-10 on the Nasdaq.
 Marquee technology names led the losses. I.B.M. fell 48 cents, to $93.70, while Intel dropped 28 cents, to $28.27.
 The warning from Nokia sent ripples through companies in the mobile telecommunications industry. Motorola fell 38 cents, to $18.25. Texas Instruments, the world's top maker of microchips used in cellphones, fell $1.78, or 5.8 percent, to $29.16. The wireless chip maker RF Micro Devices, whose biggest customer is Nokia, fell 63 cents, to $8.27.
 The Bank of America Corporation limited losses for the S.&P. 500 after it said it planned to cut 12,500 jobs over the next two years as a result of its $48 billion purchase of the FleetBoston Financial Corporation. Shares of Bank of America rose 75 cents, to $82.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Rise
By Bloomberg News
 United States Treasuries rose for the first day in four after the government's auction of $16 billion of five-year notes drew strong demand from a group of investors that includes foreign central banks. 
 So-called indirect bidders exceeded 40 percent of the sale for a fourth consecutive month, suggesting that central banks like Japan's continue to buy United States debt with the proceeds of currency sales. Treasuries also gained as the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, William Poole, said the economy needs a ''string of months'' of strong job gains. ''It looks like the foreign interest was pretty solid still,'' said Gregg Cohen, a government bond trader at CIBC World Markets.
 By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note rose 14/32 to 98 25/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, dropped to 4.15 percent, from 4.21 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and five-year notes: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.564
High Yield: 3.220
Low Yield: 3.170
Median Yield: 3.189
Total applied for: $36,548,088
Accepted: $16,000,012
Noncompetitive: $97,668
Interest set at: 3 1/8
The five-year notes mature April 15, 2004.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.928
High Rate: 0.920
Coupon Yield: 0.939
Low Rate: 0.910
Median Rate: 0.915
Total applied for: $40,109,963
Accepted: $17,254,781
Noncompetitive: $34,163
The four-week bills mature May 06, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks both 3-6 month and 2-30 year maturity securities for yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); BONDS (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (93%); INTEL CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); RF MICRO DEVICES INC (51%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (51%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (93%); NOK1V (BIT) (93%); NOK (NYSE) (93%); INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); RFMD (NASDAQ) (51%); TXN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



161 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: Data Crunchers Try to Pinpoint Voters' Politics

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
There's this great story making the Washington political rounds about the Conservative Party in Britain. It is that fund-raisers in London found a strong correlation between Conservative Party donors and people who buy garden bulbs by mail.
 Far-fetched? Maybe not, because people who plant spring bulbs tend to be more suburban and rural than urban, more wealthy than poor and, with time to garden, older. Hence, a likely Conservative, right? 
 This delicious story, alas, turns out to be apocryphal, several Conservative officials in London say. But the very fact that it gained credence in Washington's campaign corridors is revealing of a new bipartisan trend: a passionate desire to wage political campaigns by harnessing the techniques of commercial marketing. The search is on to find the American equivalent of the daffodil enthusiast. 
 Oh, to find that one piece of esoterica, or more realistically, that pattern of likes and dislikes, that will predict the politics of millions of voters. A belief in the wizardry of computers, in the idea that they can ''know'' enough about everyone in the land to predict each voter's politics, is fueling experiments, hopes, dreams and even many an expert's election-year income in this campaign season.
 The two parties have drawn enthusiastic publicity about the Datamart (Democratic) and Voter Vault (Republican), their computerized databases of millions of names, rumored to be crammed with all manner of personal information. Some is definitely in there, including address, phone number and party registration where available. Some is not, except in creative imaginations, including the makes of people's cars and breeds of their dogs.
 There are true believers in the ability of computers to scour through biographical and lifestyle data to produce a telltale political fingerprint of every voter. Hal Malchow, a direct-mail expert in Washington, says he can use technology to create ''stunningly accurate'' models and can use voter history, age, ethnicity and party registration to predict turnout. That is the kind of information campaigns have always relied on, but computers, Mr. Malchow notes, make applying it easier and faster.
 There is little dispute about that. Others, less taken with the idea of applying commercial information to political behavior, argue that faith in technology is at best premature.
 ''In both parties, people are experimenting because every campaign wants the magic box to tell them who to talk to,'' said Dan Hazelwood, a Republican political consultant. ''If you find a magic box, it could be a shortcut to winning an election. The problem is, shortcuts usually get you lost in the woods.''
 The bipartisan hope in this tight election is that computer technology will offer a shortcut to the critical job of differentiating Republican from Democrat, so grass-roots campaigners can find and motivate their voters more accurately and less expensively than in the past. But can campaigns ''microtarget'' voters the way marketers can zero in on likely customers for a potato chip?
 ''If you've ever talked to voters, knowing whether they own a toy poodle doesn't tell you how they are going to vote,'' said Mark Steitz, a consultant and former Democratic Party official. He is an advocate of the new technology but recommends modest expectations.
 ''Any time technology enters politics, there's a temptation to suggest all of politics will be turned upside down overnight,'' Mr. Steitz said. ''The Internet was going to bring referendumlike democracy. Then at base it was only politics. Every time this happens it turns out to be more nuanced and layered.''
 The Republican National Committee's Voter Vault and the Democratic National Committee's Datamart contain about 168 million names. Neither party made its data available to The New York Times. Democrats will discuss their file. Republicans will not, except in general terms.
 Those who have seen them say the databases include hundreds of pieces of information about each listed person; 300, Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic national chairman, boasts. But some experts working with the lists say that much of the information is redundant or irrelevant to predicting political inclinations. 
 Think of the lists as 168 million layer cakes, each layer made from a variety of ingredients. The trick for the experts is to decide which layers are accurate, which have changed, which are politically relevant, which predictive of voting, and ultimately, how best to use the valid information to type voters as likely supporters of John Kerry or George W. Bush.
 The ingredients range from the fundamental to the seemingly fringe.
 The most basic information comes from government voter lists, the core of campaigns since volunteers copied the information by hand onto 3-by-5 cards. Those state and local lists of registered voters include the obvious addresses and phone numbers and party registration where available. Today most lists are computerized and easily accessible.
 Datamart and Voter Vault also include census information about income level, ethnicity and race, education, presence or number of children. But that information is by census tract, with 1,500 to 8,000 people in each tract, and not broken down by individual. Most who claim to know many essential facts about people acknowledge, when asked, that they are extrapolating from tract data.
 More reliable personal information is more limited: government tax agencies keep public records on the value of people's homes, and federal and state agencies keep public records about political contributions. Somes special-interest groups rent their membership lists to candidates for direct-mail campaigns, some refuse, and other membership lists are rented, traded or sold by brokers who make a business of it.
 Other sources include information that people provide, often inaccurately, on warranty cards and consumer marketing surveys about their income, marital status and number and age of children. Companies known as data aggregators collect, combine and sell that information to, among other sources, the Democratic and Republican National Committees.
 ''Here's where all the hype comes in,'' said Laura Quinn, a Democratic National Committee consultant. ''People tried to take the commercial economic data and apply it to politics -- how you shop is how you vote. Commercial clusters have not been predictive of how people are going to vote.''
 The consumer information is uneven and expensive, Ms. Quinn and others note, and not as extensive as some imagine. For instance, car ownership status has not been available since passage of a federal law in the 1990's, and even if it were, not all Cadillac owners are Republican. Magazine subscription lists are often for sale but are expensive and of dubious political use, because who is to say if a Vanity Fair or Time reader is a Republican, a Democrat or an independent? And the readership of partisan political publications is small.
 The technicians and statisticians say they are instead relying heavily on the basic economic, political and demographic information in Datamart and Voter Vault, the same information the old precinct bosses relied on. Today computers can share information and make political calculations faster, more efficiently and accurately, and they keep reams of data that used to be thrown out after each election.
 ''The value of Datamart is that it's never all been in one place before,'' said Karen White, political director of Emily's List, the nonprofit organization that helps Democratic women running for office. Emily's List is making an ambitious effort to make a science of politics. Using polling, focus-group interviews and statistical analysis, the organization is hoping to rate each of Datamart's 168 million names from certain Democratic voter to possibly Democratic, to never.
 Last summer, consultants working for the group polled 3,827 people drawn randomly from Datamart about issues and attitudes. Based on the answers, statisticians created categories, from the most Democratic (''college-educated progressive'') to the most Republican (''social conservative'').
 Categorizing those polled allowed the analysts to see which of the demographic, economic and political information in Datamart made someone a college-educated progressive or a social conservative or in between. Then they extrapolated, placing every one of the 168 million people into one of the nine categories. So far, more field testing has shown that the calculations were mostly, but not 100 percent, correct, Ms. White said. Emily's List will contact those it thinks are leaning Democratic, especially those who do not vote often.
 ''This is not a magic bullet,'' said one of the consultants, Geoff Garin. ''We are using statistical methods to help groups more efficiently target and find voters that are important to them. It's always been done, but today there is more data.''
 There is one more factor to consider about the new political technology: the candidate. Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, was the most tech-sophisticated candidate. He used the Internet and e-mail to motivate and raise money from supporters, and was the pundit-favored candidate to win Iowa, a contest he lost to Mr. Kerry.
 ''There is an eternal truth, easy to lose with all this technology,'' Mr. Garin said, speaking not about Dr. Dean but more generally. ''At the end of the day it is still the reality of the candidate that counts. The medium does not overwhelm the message or the candidate. You still need the goods.''

FORAGING FOR VOTES

TUESDAY -- Grass-roots politics has become a campaign star this year.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''FOR EXAMPLE -- Layering Data In Search of Votes''Both national parties maintain databases of about 170 million names, with hundreds of fields of data on each name. The challenge is deciding which data is useful for selecting voters. Here are some sources used to compile the databases:PUBLICLY AVAILABLE GOVERNMENT DATAState and local lists of registered votersHome values from government tax agenciesFederal and state political contributionsVoter lists have long been used by political parties, but computer databases allow for much more powerful compilation and analysis of dataDEMOGRAPHIC DATAData on income
race and ethnicity
education
and number of children, if anyCensus data is available by tract
needs to be extrapolated for individual profilesDATA FROM COMMERCIAL SOURCESWarranty cards and consumer marketing surveysMagazine subscription listsUneven in accuracy and expensive
 may not be useful in predicting political behavior(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); PSYCHOGRAPHICS (74%); DATABASE MARKETING (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (69%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%); ETHNICITY (63%); DOGS (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Marketing and Merchandising; Surveys and Series; Computers and the Internet; Finances; Voter Behavior; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: Joyce Purnick

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



162 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Needs a Credible U.N.

 BODY:
For the first time since last May, word came yesterday that American forces were engaged in serious combat in Iraq, this time against Iraqi insurgent forces who attacked American marines in a city southwest of Baghdad, and against an armed Sunni resistance in the town of Falluja. Reports of significant casualties on both sides in the pitched battle in the city of Ramadi were a grim and powerful reminder of how badly the United States needs a strong, credible and engaged United Nations.
 Unfortunately, not only is the role of the U.N. still unsettled, the world organization is suffering from two self-inflicted wounds. One is a kickback scandal of multibillion-dollar proportions swirling around the U.N.-run oil-for-food program that kept ordinary Iraqis from starving during the long years of punishing economic sanctions. The other is the recent finding by an independent investigative panel that oversights in U.N. security management may have worsened the death toll in last August's terrorist bombing of the Baghdad headquarters. 
 Urgent steps, including high-level demotions and dismissals, are already under way to address the security failures. U.N. officials returning to Iraq face unavoidable risks, but everything that can be done to make them safer must be done. Ferreting out the murky details of the financial scandal, and meting out appropriate punishments, is no less urgent or important.
 At the heart of the scandal are reports that Iraq collected billions of unmonitored dollars from oil surcharges and kickbacks for awarding consumer goods contracts under the oil-for-food program. U.N. officials clearly failed to supervise effectively the roughly $10 billion a year in transactions and may have been involved in illicit deals.
 The oil-for-food program began in the mid-1990's, at Washington's behest, as a way to maintain political support for sanctions in the face of Iraqi civilian suffering. It seems to have fairly well served the limited goals of keeping sanctions intact enough to prevent Iraq from rebuilding unconventional weapons and of easing the burdens on ordinary Iraqis. But exporting the oil and buying the consumer goods required working with a corrupt Iraqi government, with Security Council members eager to maximize commercial gains and with some of Iraq's less than scrupulous neighbors. 
 U.N. officials have been reporting systematic corruption in the program for years, but the Security Council never insisted on a thorough cleanup. Washington acquiesced, since the faulty program was the only way to maintain support for the sanctions. Now there is finally some political will to investigate, and details of the corruption are emerging from documents seized by American occupation authorities in Iraq.
 The U.N. investigation now under way can be credible only if it is independent of Security Council control. The investigators must put aside diplomatic niceties and concentrate on cleansing the U.N.'s reputation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); BRIBERY (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); STARVATION (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); ETHICS (69%) Editorials; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Food; Ethics; Security and Warning Systems; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



163 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; COMPANY NEWS

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: CUMMINS RAISES PROFIT FORECAST FOR QUARTER AND YEAR

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Cummins Inc. raised its earnings forecast for the first quarter and the full year, citing strong sales of its diesel engines. The company, based in Columbus, Ind., said improved sales and economic prospects offset rising prices for commodities like steel. For the January-March period, Cummins forecast earnings of 65 cents to 75 cents a share, compared with its earlier forecast of 40 cents to 50 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call expected earnings of 58 cents a share for the quarter. Cummins shares rose $4.40, to $64.40 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (91%); DIESEL ENGINE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (88%) 

COMPANY: CUMMINS INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: Cummins Inc

TICKER: CMI (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



164 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Another Magazine Joins the 'C' Mix

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ and STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The publisher that has turned fodder for so-called c-suite executives like chief information officers and chief security officers into a business is turning its attention to other c-suite denizens: chief marketing officers. 
 CXO Media in Framingham, Mass., a division of the International Data Group that publishes CIO and CSO magazines, will introduce CMO magazine in September, preceded by a Web site, cmoresource.com, in June. The new magazine will begin by offering free subscriptions to 25,000 executives and will then seek paid circulation. 
 CMO is intended to capitalize on the growing interest among companies in demonstrating results for their marketing efforts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAID CIRCULATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); DIVESTITURES (85%) Magazines; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CMO (Magazine); CXO Media

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott; Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



165 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Lithuanian Parliament Removes Country's President After Casting Votes on Three Charges

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 6 

 BODY:
The Lithuanian Parliament removed President Rolandas Paksas from office on Tuesday, ending a political scandal that has roiled the country for nearly six months even as it celebrated its new membership in NATO and the European Union.
 The Parliament, or Seimas, ousted Mr. Paksas less than 14 months after he took office, voting on three counts that he violated his oath and the Lithuanian Constitution through his dealings with a Lithuanian-Russian businessman suspected of links to Russian organized crime. 
 Mr. Paksas, 47, became the first European leader to be removed from office by the impeachment process. The Parliament's speaker, Arturas Paulauskas, a political rival, took over as acting president after the voting, pending a new election that by law must be held within two and a half months.
 All along Mr. Paksas, a flamboyant stunt pilot and populist politician, denied the charges, accusing his opponents of exacting political revenge for his unexpected victory in a presidential runoff in January 2003.
 Appearing before Parliament as it prepared to vote, he sounded contrite, acknowledging mistakes but saying that none merited his impeachment. ''I do not feel guilty,'' he said.
 His remarks did little to persuade Parliament to grant him leniency. And his behavior of late, often seen as erratic and temperamental, only worsened his prospects for political survival.
 As the vote neared, he appointed the businessman at the center of the scandal, Yuri Borisov, as a special adviser and then reversed himself within hours, saying he had been pressured by Mr. Borisov.
 The ouster comes less than a month before Lithuania is to cement its place in Europe by joining the European Union, a tremendous accomplishment for a country that regained its independence from the Soviet Union less than 13 years ago. A week ago it officially became a member of NATO, welcoming the arrival of four Belgian F-16's to patrol the skies over the Baltics. 
 Many in Lithuania have viewed the scandal as a sign of the strength of the country's nascent democracy, albeit an embarrassing one. 
 Despite the political turmoil -- heightened by an undercurrent of fear about Russia's meddling in the country's affairs -- the impeachment process did little to distract the country from its principal economic and foreign policy goal of joining Europe's elite club of nations. Lithuania, eager to demonstrate its commitment to NATO and the United States, has also deployed troops to Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 ''The democracy of Lithuania is proven,'' Vytautas Landsbergis, the first president of post-Soviet Lithuania and one of the parliamentary deputies who voted against Mr. Paksas, said in a telephone interview. ''We are able to cope even with such a problematic situation. And we did it in an absolutely peaceful and constitutional way.''
 Mr. Paksas, the third post-Soviet president, was accused of improperly restoring citizenship to Mr. Borisov, the owner of a helicopter manufacturer, Aviabaltika, which has been accused of illegal arms sales to Sudan. Mr. Borisov contributed $400,000 to Mr. Paksas' presidential campaign, and in exchange, according to parliamentary investigators, received preferential access to the president's office. 
 Calls for his impeachment intensified after the country's State Security Department reported last fall that he had also leaked classified information to Mr. Borisov about investigations into his dealings. Mr. Paksas also faced a third charge of interfering in a privatization deal.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rolandas Paksas was removed as president of Lithuania yesterday while some of his supporters held his picture outside the Parliament. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); SCANDALS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); ARMED FORCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Politics and Government; Impeachment ; Ethics; Organized Crime; Elections

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: Rolandas (Pres) Paksas; Yuri Borisov; Arturas Paulauskas; Steven Lee Myers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) LITHUANIA (98%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); IRAQ (79%) Lithuania; Lithuania

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



166 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 436 words

PERSON: Frank A. Sieverts

HEADLINE: Frank A. Sieverts, 70, Specialist In Refugee Issues at State Dept.

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6 

 BODY:
Frank A. Sieverts, a specialist in refugee and relief issues at the State Department for 25 years and later as an executive in the Washington office of the International Committee of the Red Cross, died here last Wednesday. He was 70.
 The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Sue Hubbell. 
 Mr. Sieverts, who lived in Washington, was assistant to Christophe Girod, the head of the Washington Red Cross office. He had worked for the Red Cross since 1995.
 At the State Department from 1962 to 1987, Mr. Sieverts held several positions that reflected his commitment to people caught up in forces beyond their control, an experience he himself endured as a child of Jewish refugees who fled Nazi Germany in 1938.
 As special assistant for prisoner-of-war matters during the Vietnam War, Mr. Sieverts served as a State Department liaison with relatives of missing American servicemen. After the war, he pressed the Hanoi government to aid in the search for missing Americans. As the department's director for refugee reception and replacement, Mr. Sieverts worked with private agencies to relocate refugees who had fled the upheavals in Southeast Asia. 
 Mr. Sieverts also served for a time as minister-counselor for humanitarian affairs. His final position in the State Department was special assistant for public affairs at the Bureau for Refugee Programs.
 Frank Arne Sieverts was born in Frankfurt and grew up in the Milwaukee area, where his parents, Helmut and Cecelie Sieverts, settled after their flight from Germany. He studied international relations at Swarthmore, graduating in 1955, then pursued economics and politics at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
 At Swarthmore, Mr. Sieverts shared a room with Michael S. Dukakis, who became governor of Massachusetts and was the 1988 Democratic nominee for president. At Oxford, he roomed with Paul S. Sarbanes, now a Democratic senator from Maryland.
 Before entering the State Department, Mr. Sieverts was a reporter for Time magazine in London and Washington and a legislative assistant to Senator William Proxmire, Democrat of Wisconsin. From 1987 to 1994, he was the spokesman for the Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
 His first marriage, to Jane Woodbridge, ended in divorce.
 Besides his wife, he is survived by two children from his first marriage, Michael Sieverts of Arlington, Va., and Lisa Sieverts of Nelson, N.H.; a stepson, Brian Hubbell of Cherryfield, Me.; two brothers, Steven Sieverts of London and J. Michael Sieverts of Santa Monica, Calif.; two sisters, Kati Hanna of Ithaca, N.Y., and Laurie Snyder of Baltimore, and three grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); POLITICS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); STEPPARENTS (60%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (84%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (84%); BUREAU FOR REFUGEE PROGRAMS (54%)

David Stout

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (76%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); VIETNAM (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (76%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



167 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: With Gas Prices High, a Trickle Makes an Oilman

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Maureen Balleza contributed research for this article.

DATELINE: GRAHAM, Tex., April 2 

 BODY:
Here in the North Texas oil fields, prices at the gas pumps can actually make a man smile. 
 Take Jim Andrews. Like everyone else who drives, he is digging deeper into his wallet to fill his battered Ford pickup, which gets eight miles to a gallon.
 But he also owns oil wells, with prices per barrel recently soaring over $38 and some futures trading as high as $40.
 O.K., so he owns only 10 wells and an interest in 2 others, most barely yielding a barrel a day. 
 Still, he is ahead, like many of his neighbors in the Texas oil business. Sharply rising oil and natural gas prices have changed the economic equation here, and long-marginal ''stripper wells'' are pumping again.
 Natural gas, also produced by many of Mr. Andrews's wells, is also selling at longtime highs, up to $5 per thousand cubic feet, some five times the price of two years ago.
 ''Every well that'll make anything is running,'' said Mr. Andrews, 48, who is a husky 6-foot-3 and makes his living seeing to the daily mechanics of more than 50 working wells -- other people's and his own -- spread over hundreds of square miles here in Young County. It costs him roughly $20 to extract a barrel of oil from under the ground, he figures. So the price has to be enough above that to make it pay; $38 will do that, nicely, although he does not pocket the full amount.
 Fast-rising prices have sharply heightened the appeal of such marginal wells, said Charles R. Matthews, one of the three members of the elected Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates mining and mineral rights. He said that stripper wells contribute $1 billion a year to the Texas economy and represent ''a particularly reliable source of energy for America.''
 Buying oil wells, in fact, was Mr. Andrews's hedge against his own rising costs at the gas pump. ''I can't do anything about what I'm paid, and I'm already pumping as many wells as I can,'' he said. So he started buying his own wells.
 [The American Automobile Association reported April 6 that the average national gas price hit $1.77 for regular, up 5 cents in a month and 13 cents more than a year ago. But the group said the price was still lower than the inflation-adjusted high of $3 during the oil crisis of 1981.]
 Mr. Andrews is hardly an oil baron. He spends his days not in bank vaults counting his millions, but driving 200 miles or more a day seven days a week to gauge tanks and be a troubleshooter at pumps while keeping an eye out for rattlesnakes and trigger-happy hunters. This makes him, in many ways, a typical Texas oil man.
 ''You think about the oil business and think of Exxon and Mobil,'' Mr. Andrews said, ''but there's lots of guys like me who own just a few wells.'' 
 Images of gushers notwithstanding, the average well in Texas produces just seven barrels a day, with tens of thousands producing less than a barrel, Mr. Matthews said.
 According to the Texas Independent Producers and Royalty Owners Association, the nation's largest statewide trade group representing independent oil and gas producers, the bulk of the state's nearly 6,500 producers have fewer than 100 wells each, with 10 to 15 percent operating fewer than 20 wells.
 ''There's a huge portion of the industry that has relatively small numbers of wells,'' said Martin Fleming, interim executive vice president of the independent producers. With American oil giants long since having shifted most of their production to richer oil fields abroad and offshore, independent operators now drill 85 percent of new wells in the country, Mr. Fleming said. 
 Only about 20 ''true majors'' remain in the United States, the Railroad Commission says, with only 235 producers in Texas operating 200 or more wells.
 Yet Texas, with all its small producers, contributed about one of every 10 gallons used by Americans last year, said Mark A. Baxter, an engineer and director of the Maguire Energy Institute at the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University. Texans pumped about one million barrels, he said, and an additional 9.6 million were imported, 1.7 million from Saudi Arabia.
 ''I was always interested in drilling rigs,'' Mr. Andrews said, piloting his three-quarter-ton Ford F250 with 155,000 miles over rutted ranch roads to pump jacks bobbing in the broiling fields like monstrous praying mantises. 
 He grew up in Graham, an early 1900's oil boom town where his father drove a bulldozer. After studying business administration at Tarleton State University in Stephenville, near Fort Worth, he became a contract pumper, servicing the wells before companies like Conoco empty the storage tanks for transport to refineries.
 The work needs to be done daily, and every morning, seven days a week with rare exception, he said, he is behind the wheel by 7:30 a.m., skipping breakfast and lunch and subsisting on a thermos of sweetened coffee, and returning home around 8 p.m. for dinner with his wife, Lola, a computer technician, and their son in high school, before starting on his paperwork. (They also have a daughter at Baylor University and a son about to transfer from the Marines in California to the Army in Texas.) 
 ''Now this is a nice little well,'' he said on a typical afternoon, stopping at a ranch to examine the pump jack, downhole pipe and sucker rod drawing up oil and natural gas from nearly three-quarters of a mile down and into lines snaking to nearby storage tanks. 
 He adjusted some of the workings with a wrench, taking care not to get the tool caught in the machinery as he did two years ago, when it spun back at him, breaking his collarbone and jaw and nine teeth and knocking him out of work for six weeks. 
 At a number of the sites he kept a wary eye out, too, for the ranchers who are none too pleased with his presence, or the wells, for that matter. Surface and subsurface property rights are sold separately in Texas and a landowner who does not also hold the mineral rights cannot prevent anyone who does from digging wells on the property to exploit the claim. 
 Some of the unhappy ranchers needed a sheriff's convincing before giving access to their land, Mr. Andrews said.
 Then, too, hunters who pay thousands of dollars for a hunting lease on private land do not care for it when he thunders through on his truck, scaring the deer, and they sometimes show their irritation by shooting holes in the oil and gas tanks he services.
 ''I told my wife,'' he said, ''if I'm ever shot, don't believe it was an accident.'' 
 There are also the poisonous snakes that prize the cool shadows cast by the holding tanks. These he dispatches with a shovel, he said, because ranchers can get the wrong message from a gun. 
 For all this, each stop at an electric-driven pump earns him $4, or $5 for a natural gas model. At those rates, he earns a gross monthly income of $6,200 to $7,750. 
 Out of that, he said, aside from his own monthly truck and car fuel bills of $1,400 a month, he has to pay for a new $19,000 truck in May, just as he makes the last $700 monthly payment on the old one. The rough terrain is tough on his tires -- he needs a new set for $500 every month and a half, he said. He needs to maintain a $1 million liability policy for $150 a month and pays another $100 for long-term disability insurance; he gets basic medical coverage by grace of his wife's job. 
 Because of those costs, Mr. Andrews said, five years ago, with the price of a barrel in the $20's, he began buying his own wells (actually, leasing the drilling rights from the owner of the subsurface rights) to give his family some financial security. 
 ''There's always somebody else who thinks he can make a well produce more,'' he said, and he is no exception. But he has an advantage. ''The leases I buy I pumped,'' he said. ''I know everything there is to know about them.'' 
 A stripper well, he said, costs $5,000 to $10,000 a barrel -- that is, one producing a single barrel a day would run in that range, depending on whether it also produces natural gas and how free it is from saltwater and other impurities.
 Banks, he said, commonly give loans for such purchases based on a three-year payout -- the wells begin turning a profit after that time. But he said, ''I'm looking for a one-and-a-half-year payout.''
 Whatever a barrel of oil is going for at the time it is pumped is not the price well owners receive. The owner of the mineral rights commonly receives 12.5 percent off the top, and land surveyors and geologists often get shares. 
 So on some of his leases, Mr. Andrews said, ''I pay 100 percent of the cost and get 75 percent of the profit.''
 Then, too, any mishap can throw off his calculations. Saltwater seepage can cause damage of $20,000, too much to make a marginal well worth repairing. 
 Still, Mr. Andrews is not complaining about his job. ''It has its benefits,'' he said. ''I'm in the country and I make my own hours.'' 
 But he said he was glad his children would never take over his business. ''I guess when I'm gone, my wife will sell it,'' he said. But, he said, his wells should be producing for decades.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jim Andrews checks oil tanks near Graham, Tex. He inspects 50 wells daily, some of them his own, spread over hundreds of square miles.
 Toby Frazier, left, and Colin Edwards repair a well in a field near Graham. (Photographs by Mark Graham for The New York Times)Map of Texas highlighting Graham: Even the marginal oil wells in places like Graham, Tex., are pumping again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (63%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (63%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

PERSON: Ralph Blumenthal

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



168 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Motor-Vehicle-Related Deaths Will Increase, Study Predicts

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6 

 BODY:
Motor vehicle crashes kill about 1.2 million people a year worldwide, and the number will rise to more than 2 million in 2020 unless new steps are taken, according to a study being released Wednesday by the World Health Organization and the World Bank.
 The study predicts that road-traffic injuries will rise to the third largest cause of death and disability by 2020 -- after heart disease and depression -- from the ninth in 1990. One of the reasons it ranks so high is that many of the victims are young, which amplifies the loss of productivity and quality of life.
 ''All over the world, economic development is leading to more cars and more roads, but we've forgotten to match that with more safety,'' Dr. Etienne Krug, director of the department for injuries and violence prevention at the World Health Organization, said in an interview here. 
 Dr. Krug attributed the problem to ''fatalism, and ignorance of how big the problem is and what can be done about it.'' 
 Attention to road safety varies widely, according to the study, so much so that the authors acknowledged that they had little idea about how many people were injured. The estimates ranged from 20 million to 50 million a year, they said. But an earlier W.H.O. study showed that almost one-quarter of those who sought medical attention from a clinic or hospital after a traffic accident were suffering from brain injuries.
 The study said that road crashes should be ranked with cancer, heart disease and stroke as major threats to public health. The organization, an affiliate of the United Nations, issued its last major report on the subject more than 40 years ago.
 The death and injury toll is directly related to poverty, according to the study, which predicts that between 2000 and 2020, motor-vehicle-related deaths will decline by 30 percent in high-income countries but increase 80 percent in poor ones. 
 In China, for example, road-traffic deaths more than tripled between 1975 and 1998, according to a study cited by the authors.
 For 2000, the study put the death rate at 11.8 per 100,000 people in high-income countries, compared with 26.1 in Latin America and the Caribbean, 19.2 in the Middle East and North Africa and 19.0 in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. 
 The developing world has 20 percent of the cars but 80 percent of the dead, Dr. Krug said.
 The study, mostly a compilation of smaller studies conducted around the world, points out that especially in low-income countries the victims are often pedestrians and cyclists and other people not in vehicles. In India, more than half of the dead were pedestrians; in the United States, less than 15 percent were, and 80 percent of the dead were in cars and trucks. 
 Part of the problem is money, Dr. Krug said. ''Clearly, to repave and redesign all the roads of India would be hugely expensive,'' he explained. But he also noted that most cars already have seat belts and that enforcing laws against drunken driving is not very expensive.
 In Thailand, he said, more than one-third of the deaths involve motorcyclists, most of whom do not wear helmets. Helmets are not expensive, he said, and helmet laws are easy to enforce. 
 Not all the hazard is from cars and trucks. Motorized two-wheelers and three-wheelers, like rickshaws and jitneys, make up 95 percent of motor vehicles in Vietnam. The study gave examples of steps taken to reduce deaths, like limitations on the size of motorcycle engines that beginners are allowed to ride and the installation of road devices designed to absorb shock when hit by a car. It also recommended a variety of other steps, including better land-use planning to reduce the need to travel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); HEART DISEASE (76%); CANCER (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); STROKES (72%); BRAIN INJURIES (72%); BRAIN (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) Roads and Traffic; Research; Accidents and Safety; Third World and Developing Countries; Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) World Health Organization; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Matthew L Wald; Etienne (Dr) Krug

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); CHINA (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



169 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Fall to Lowest Level in 9 Months

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Layoffs in the United States fell in March to the lowest level in nine months, although companies remain reluctant to hire people, according to a report released yesterday. 
 The outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. said planned job cuts decreased to 68,034 in March compared with 77,250 in February. 
 ''The heavy job-cutting we have seen over the past three years appears to be trending down,'' John Challenger, the chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said in a statement. 
 ''However,'' the statement continued, ''the job market seems to be in a state of limbo, where companies are eager to hold on to the people they have, but many are reluctant to create any new jobs.'' 
 Noting that the economy remains at a vulnerable point, Challenger said: ''Employers know they are far better off with a seasoned, senior staff versus the cost of acquiring and training replacements in a period when the customer is king.'' 
 The report said total planned layoffs in the first quarter of 2004 fell to 262,840 compared with the fourth quarter of last year when 364,346 job cuts were announced. 
 Planned layoffs in the first quarter were 26 percent lower than during the first quarter of last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Challenger Gray & Christmas

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



170 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: New Gateway To Denver Is Planned Near Airport

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Arriving at Denver International Airport can seem more like landing in the middle of the prairie than at the gateway to a metropolitan area of 2.6 million people. At 53 square miles, the airport is more than twice the size of Manhattan and is surrounded by wheat and corn fields, with only scattered development.
 In coming years, however, visitors may get a different introduction to Denver, as a master-planned community, HighPointe at DIA, rises on 1,800 acres of farmland near the airport. 
 The HighPointe project, which has an estimated price tag of $1.5 billion over 20 years, straddles two cities -- Denver (population 550,000) and Aurora (276,000) -- that once competed for sales-tax-generating development, a crucial source of revenue for Colorado cities.
 But in this case, the two mayors, John W. Hickenlooper of Denver and Ed Tauer of Aurora -- both in office less than a year -- have agreed not only to share sales and lodging tax revenue from the project but also to work together on planning, development and permitting as well as decisions about allocating services. The mayors say they are trying to establish a model for regional cooperation in a seven-county metropolitan area where more than three-quarters of the population lives outside Denver. 
 Mayor Hickenlooper, a geologist turned restaurateur, became prominent in Denver by opening the Wynkoop Brewpub in 1988 in a historic but neglected section of downtown, spurring the redevelopment of what is now the trendy LoDo (as in lower downtown) district. ''In business,'' said Mr. Hickenlooper, who helped redevelop several century-old LoDo buildings, including Mercantile Square, a mixed-use project that houses a branch of the famous Tattered Cover Book Store, ''there are laws against monopolies. In the public sector, we don't have laws like that. We have an obligation to work together and see where our interests are aligned.''
 Like Denver and Aurora, other cities across the country are also finding it a wiser strategy to join forces with their neighbors rather than fight with them over a slice of tax revenue, said William H. Hudnut III, a senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute. In the Boston area, for example, the mayors of Everett, Malden and Medford formed a commission to oversee the development of a high-tech park along the Malden River. ''Mayors are becoming more savvy,'' said Mr. Hudnut, a former mayor of Indianapolis. ''They realize that if they don't cooperate, business will go elsewhere.''
 HighPointe is not an unprecedented example of cooperation between Denver and Aurora. The two previous mayors, Wellington Webb of Denver and Paul Tauer of Aurora, the father of the current mayor, overcame a chilly relationship to cooperate in the early 1990's on a reuse plan for the former Lowry Air Force Base, about 15 miles east of downtown Denver, and establish the Lowry Redevelopment Authority, with equal representation from each city. Its mission is to create a mixed-use community for the 1,866-acre site, including 4,000 new homes and apartments, a town center with small stores and 1.8 million square feet of office space.
 Lowry, about 70 percent complete, is scheduled to be finished by 2007, said Hilarie Portell, a spokeswoman for the redevelopment authority. ''We feel that Lowry's success was built on this foundation between Denver and Aurora and extensive public involvement,'' she said.
 By including revenue sharing -- the details of that have yet to be worked out -- and a uniform permitting process, the two cities' HighPointe agreement goes further than their accord on Lowry, however. More than a year before any construction is scheduled to begin, a task force has been appointed to resolve issues relating to public safety, zoning, utilities and roads and permits.
 The objective, Mr. Tauer said, is to present the developer, the Landmark Properties Group of Littleton, Colo., with a uniform set of requirements. ''We want to make it look as much as possible like you're submitting it to one city,'' he said. As for services, he said it would not make sense for ''a snowplow to drive up the Aurora part of a street and then stop.''
 The HighPointe site has about 1,200 acres in Aurora and 600 in Denver, with both the Denver skyline and the snow-capped Front Range mountains as a backdrop. Landmark, founded by Ray C. Pittman, a former senior vice president of Catellus, the national land, office and warehouse developer based in San Francisco, is buying the bulk of the acreage from the Van Schaak family, a partner in Box Elder Farms, which supplied about 40 percent of the land for the airport. 
 The ultimate plan calls for as much as 10 million square feet of prime office space, a million square feet of retail space, a 27-hole golf course and 3,000 homes of differing prices. The first phase, expected to begin next year, will include roads, built at Landmark's expense; a 350-room hotel; and a nine-hole golf course, said Mr. Pittman, who developed 2.2 million square feet of distribution space at the 295-acre Stapleton Business Center, part of the widely praised redevelopment of Denver's former airport. 
 Aside from Lowry and Stapleton, there is another redevelopment project near the airport: a $4.3 billion, square-mile bioscience park that is being developed around the former Fitzsimons Army Medical Center in Aurora.
 The impetus for HighPointe is Aurora's desire for more top-level office space that could attract high-paying jobs, said Wendy Mitchell, the president of the Aurora Economic Development Council, a public-private nonprofit organization. 
 Under the plans, 913 acres, an unusually high proportion, is for commercial space, although several real estate specialists said that the office buildings were not likely to go up anytime soon. At the end of the year, the Denver area had an overall office vacancy rate of 20 percent, while in Aurora and the surrounding northeast section it was 15 percent, according to figures compiled by Cushman & Wakefield.
 Todd M. Wheeler, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, said the market might not support office development at the HighPointe site for five years or more. ''There's no question,'' he said, ''that over some time horizon it's clearly going to be a great location.''
 On a tour of the area surrounding the HighPointe site, Mr. Pittman was critical of the tract housing that has been built there since the airport opened in 1995 -- rows and rows of houses and lawns of identical size, with the same facades. By contrast, he said, Landmark intends to follow ''smart growth'' principles with housing of diverse architectural styles catering to different segments of the market, a town center with neighborhood shops, open space, walking trails and bike paths.
 Mr. Pittman and the two mayors say they hope that eventually there will be a stop at HighPointe on a new rail line from the airport to downtown Denver. But whether the line is built will depend on whether a $4.7 billion transportation initiative gets on the November ballot and is approved. The construction would be financed by federal grants and an increase in the Regional Transportation District sales tax from 0.6 percent to 1 percent.
 Mr. Tauer said the transit expansion was not critical to the project because it offered several other transportation advantages: it is next to a major airport; is bisected by E-470, a new segment of the beltway; and is four and a half miles from Interstate 70.
 But Will Coyne, the land-use advocate for Environment Colorado, a nonprofit organization in Denver, said the amount of office space planned for HighPointe would equal nearly half of the downtown Denver office market. ''The transportation piece is incredibly important,'' he said. ''This is a huge amount of commercial space outside the city. If we can't connect it by rail, and make it accessible, then there will be massive transportation implications.''
 But Mr. Coyne praised ''the step forward in regional cooperation'' by Aurora and Denver. ''If we can find a way to eradicate this competition between entities,'' he said, ''we can move toward good planned development.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The mayors, John W. Hickenlooper, left, of Denver and Ed Tauer of Aurora, at the HighPointe site on a road that separates their cities. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Map of Denver highlighting HighPointe at DIA. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (88%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); SALES TAX (74%); TAX LAW (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); MONOPOLIZATION (62%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Denver International Airport; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: TATTERED COVER BOOK STORE INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (53%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN HICKENLOOPER (90%) Terry Pristin; John (Mayor) Hickenlooper; Ed (Mayor) Tauer

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Denver (Colo); Aurora (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



171 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Kennedy Demands Full Funding for School Bill

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
The words seem to haunt Senator Edward M. Kennedy these days: ''a tin cup budget.''
 That was how Mr. Kennedy's firebrand colleague on the education committee, the late Senator Paul Wellstone, dismissed the No Child Left Behind law, urging Democrats not to support President Bush's showcase issue in the absence of guarantees on future spending.
 At the time, Mr. Kennedy was not to be deterred. He negotiated language with the Republicans, corralled Democratic support, showed up at the signing ceremony and spent that spring in a victory tour with President Bush promoting the law. 
 Now, though, as he takes to the campaign trail for John Kerry, Senator Kennedy has adopted his colleague's very words as he rails against the administration for demanding massive changes from public schools on ''a tin cup budget.''
 Mr. Kennedy, one of the Senate's shrewdest operators, appears to feel personally swindled.
 ''This is an entirely new concept, a new initiative, a new endeavor,'' he said in an interview in his office. He likened No Child Left Behind to the enactment of Social Security, and to the race to the moon 40 years ago led by his brother, President John F. Kennedy.
 ''I believe the exact same type of commitment was made to children,'' Mr. Kennedy said. He said that Mr. Bush ''misstated, misspoke, misrepresented his position'' on financing No Child Left Behind.
 ''This is not a commitment to me,'' he said. ''It is a commitment to the parents, the children, the schools that are trying to carry out this law.''
 Mr. Kennedy maintained that he supported the law only because he believed President Bush would demand substantial increases in federal spending on elementary and secondary education to achieve the law's goals.
 Others scoff at the notion of a consummate politician like Mr. Kennedy being hoodwinked. 
 ''Not a credible historical analysis,'' said Sandy Kress, the lawyer who represented the White House in Congressional negotiations over No Child Left Behind. ''Nobody snookers Ted Kennedy.''
 No Child Left Behind gives the nation until 2014 to render all students proficient in reading and math. It also requires annual testing of all students in grades 3 to 8, and once in high school, with steadily more severe penalties for schools whose students fail to make sufficient annual progress for two or more years.
 Republican leaders contend that Democrats well understood that while the law authorized as much as $80 billion in additional spending on Title I high-poverty schools alone by 2007, that did not mean the full amount would be appropriated.
 ''I can assure you, cross my heart, that we had many discussions about funding, but there was never a discussion, not one, about funding No Child Left Behind at authorization levels,'' said John A. Boehner, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. ''It never happened.''
 Republicans also maintain that under President Bush, spending on the high-poverty schools that are the main concern of No Child Left Behind rose some 42 percent, from nearly $8.8 billion in 2001 to $12.3 billion in 2004. Democrats counter that much of that increase came at their insistence, in defiance of lower budget requests by President Bush.
 ''The commitment was made on both sides to have a significant increase in No Child Left Behind funding,'' Mr. Boehner said, adding, ''I would argue that we've more than met our commitment.''
 Disputes over spending on No Child Left Behind began not long after President Bush signed the law in January 2002, and are likely to grow louder as the presidential election approaches.
 A recent poll by Education Week and the Public Education Network ranked education second in the list of voter concerns, behind only the economy, and ahead of terrorism, security, health care, prescription drugs and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. And 60 percent of those polled said that the federal government did not contribute enough money to public schools.
 Mr. Kennedy and his aides said that it was not long after Mr. Bush signed the law that they began suspecting that the money would not match their expectations. Just four weeks after the signing, Mr. Bush released his budget for the 2003 fiscal year, which, while increasing money for high poverty schools, sought a net $90 million cut in spending in areas connected to No Child Left Behind. The next year, the administration proposed a net cut of $1.2 billion.
 ''The administration has misstated their position on issue after issue,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''It's nothing terribly new now, but it was at the time.''
 Others, however, contend that the rapid discord over money for education should have come as no surprise. Just a month before the law was signed, Senator Jim Jeffords met with Democrats hammering out the law's final details with Republicans. He was not pleased.
 Mr. Jeffords had abandoned the Republican Party over the absence of a White House commitment to finance special education fully, giving Democrats the Senate. His defection handed Mr. Kennedy the chairmanship of the education committee. 
 At the meeting, however, Mr. Jeffords concluded that the Democrats were selling education short, supporting No Child Left Behind with no guarantees that federal spending would match the law's grand ambitions.
 The only voice backing Senator Jeffords belonged to Mr. Wellstone.
 Despite the risk that there would not be enough money, however, Mr. Kennedy did not have tremendous room to maneuver.
 During his transition, Mr. Bush summoned not Mr. Kennedy, but Representative George Miller of California, and Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Evan Bayh, to discuss education in Austin. Neither of the senators sat on the education committee, but they belonged to a moderate wing of their party, known as the New Democrats, that was proposing its own plan for overhauling public education. Mr. Bush's overture to them raised the threat of the White House ignoring Mr. Kennedy and the traditional Democrats altogether, increasing the pressure on him to negotiate.
 ''There clearly was a separate play with some of the New Dems,'' said Mr. Kress, a self-described ''charter member'' of the New Democrats.
 In addition, No Child Left Behind built on the Clinton Administration's 1994 law requiring states to establish academic standards and ways of measuring their success in achieving them. That law faced hurdles from both parties, and the Clinton administration made only fitful progress getting states to comply; until 2000 the Republican Party platform called for abolishing the Education Department, not expanding its role.
 President Bush offered a complete reversal of that. Suddenly, ''The stars were aligned and it was time to act,'' said Andrew Rotherham, education policy director of the Progressive Policy Institute, a research organization tied to the New Democrats.
 For all his complaints over money, Mr. Kennedy has consistently fought Democratic attempts to free schools from the demands of No Child Left Behind if the federal contribution falls short of authorization levels.
 So what do the authorized levels really mean? Within the Bush administration and Congressional Republicans, the authorization levels are generally described as nothing more than caps on spending. So why did negotiations over the authorization numbers go on for months? Why were they so fierce?
 ''It's not a cap,'' said Senator Lieberman. ''It's a statement of intent, of desire. It's a goal you'd like to reach.''
 It is also a potential political weapon, said Mr. Kress, and that idea was not lost on Republicans.
 Republicans understood that Democrats could paint the gap between authorization levels and actual federal spending as a kind of unfulfilled promise, Mr. Kress said. ''There was an understanding that could happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, an early supporter, was on hand when President Bush signed the No Child Left Behind law at an Ohio high school in January 2002. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); CHILD POVERTY (72%); HISTORY (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



172 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Studies in Chicago Fault Policy of Holding Back 3rd Graders

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
Chicago's aggressive nine-year effort to end social promotion, which served as a model for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's new third-grade retention policy, has been enormously expensive while yielding few benefits, according to two studies released yesterday by researchers who have monitored the effort. 
 The reports found that the strict promotion rules, adopted in the 1995-96 school year, had not helped third graders, had sharply increased special education placements for third and sixth graders and had led to a higher dropout rate for students who were forced to repeat eighth grade. 
 The studies offer the most comprehensive examination to date of a large urban school system that adopted a stringent policy of holding back its lowest-achieving students based on test scores. Many of its results, however, were foreshadowed in earlier studies, including one that examined a similar program in New York two decades ago that was quickly abandoned. 
 In New York City, Mr. Bloomberg and Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein have said they would hold back third graders who have not mastered basic skills. But is at that grade that the Chicago researchers found the least benefits of holding children back. 
 ''In third grade, across the studies, I see no benefits,'' said Melissa Roderick, the chief investigator for the Consortium on Chicago School Research, the nonprofit group affiliated with the University of Chicago that prepared the studies. 
 She added: ''The question for New York is: do you have the kind of problem that this is going to solve? At least in the third grade, it didn't solve any of our problems.''
 But Chancellor Klein seemed to push aside the findings, suggesting that New York City's plan would be more effective. He focused on an aspect of the report that urged giving very young children extra help, which New York City hopes to do, despite the fact that the city has not yet allocated money for such programs.
 ''The Chicago study strongly supports our view that effective early grade interventions are key to ending social promotion and preparing students for the hard work they will encounter in later grades,'' he said in a statement. 
 Mr. Klein insisted that thousands of third graders in danger of being held back were already getting extra support, and he noted that Mr. Bloomberg had proposed using additional state education aid to improve instruction in the early grades, beginning with a prekindergarten program for 3-year-olds. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's plan won approval only after he arranged the firing of three members of the Panel for Educational Policy. Critics have said that the plan does not do enough in the earliest grades and that the city has not earmarked enough money for extra tutoring or summer school. And yesterday some said the mayor was failing to heed a loud warning in the Chicago studies. 
 ''The proposal put forward by the mayor and the chancellor isn't going to work, and it hasn't worked in Chicago,'' said Eva S. Moskowitz, the chairwoman of the City Council Education Committee. ''It's great to have social scientific data to prove this, but skilled educators know this stuff intuitively. The only people who don't seem to know this is the Department of Education.'' 
 Last month, in anticipation of the reports released yesterday, the Chicago Board of Education voted to ease its promotion rules. The board eliminated the use of math scores as a factor in promotion decisions, focusing the policy solely on reading scores, and it changed the rules so that no student could be forced to repeat the same grade twice or be forced to repeat more than two grades between kindergarten and eighth grade. 
 New York's plan requires students to clear cutoffs on reading and math tests to be promoted, and Mr. Bloomberg has vowed to maintain the math requirement, despite Chicago's decision. 
 Arne Duncan, the chief executive of the Chicago public schools, did not dispute the findings in the studies, but focused, instead, on the school system's overall improvement. While the report drew no such conclusion, he credited the tough promotion rules for improvements in the system as a whole, including better overall test scores, higher graduation and attendance rates and a lower overall dropout rate. 
 ''Common sense tells you that ending social promotion has contributed to higher test scores and lower dropout rates over the last eight years,'' he said at a news conference, adding, ''I am absolutely convinced in my heart, it's the right thing to do.''
 Ms. Roderick and other researchers acknowledged that the Chicago school system had experienced an overall rise in standardized test scores, but said that the improvement was restricted to the upper grades and that third-grade scores had remained flat. The increases were influenced not just by the promotion rules, they said, but by many factors, including an improving economy, changing demographics, increased spending, stronger test preparation and other educational innovations. 
 Previous studies by the Consortium on Chicago School Research found some benefits to the summer school program used to enforce the promotion rules.
 They also found that sixth and eighth graders were mature enough to understand the consequences of being left back, prompting some of them to work harder. 
 The Chicago system is the nation's third-largest, with 600 schools and 434,000 students. Overall, more than 100,000 students have been held back since the policy was adopted. The total cost of the effort is difficult to calculate, and officials declined to give an estimate yesterday. But based on average spending per student, the extra year of schooling alone has cost the city more than $560 million. 
 The studies released yesterday focused specifically on the impact of the promotion rules on students forced to repeat a grade. 
 One study, by Ms. Roderick and Jenny Nagaoka, found that compared with similarly poorly performing students who were promoted to the fourth grade, third graders who were left back performed slightly better the next year, but then slightly worse two years later. Sixth graders who were left back had demonstrably lower achievement than their promoted classmates in the two years after being retained. 
 The second study released yesterday, by Elaine Allensworth, also part of the consortium, found that students forced to repeat eighth grade were more likely to drop out.
 Ms. Roderick said that perhaps her most important finding was that students who were held back could be identified as struggling as early as first grade. 
 Based on this, Ms. Roderick urged school officials to help struggling students as early as possible. ''Even third grade is too late,'' she said.
 Mr. Duncan said that in adjusting the policy, Chicago officials had already addressed much of the criticism in yesterday's reports. For example, he said, special education referrals had already been reduced. 
 But Donald R. Moore, executive director of Designs for Change, an advocacy group that monitors the Chicago schools, questioned the morality of the promotion policy. 
 ''The policy has failed,'' he said. ''Retained students have shown no academic benefits and have been harmed.'' 
 He also said that any motivational gains came at too steep a price. ''That's not ethical,'' he said. ''You can't sacrifice the most vulnerable children in the system to scare other children into doing better.'' 
 Randi Weingarten, the president of the New York City teachers' union, said Mr. Bloomberg should learn from Chicago's experience. ''This should be a red flag,'' she said. ''Tough retention policies don't help kids.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (76%); CHILDREN (76%); APPROVALS (60%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004



173 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: In Ford's Tomorrow, Fuel-Saving Hybrids And a Luxury Lincoln

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Higher gas prices might not be making Americans rush to buy small cars, but William Clay Ford Jr. says his company is preparing for a future of more sticker shock at the pump. 
 Mr. Ford, the chairman and chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, said yesterday that his company now planned to make three hybrid vehicles, two by the 2007 model year. He also said it would redouble efforts to build more efficient vehicles. This year, Ford, if it sticks to its current product plan, will become the third automaker to sell a hybrid vehicle, offering a version of its Escape sport utility vehicle. 
 Mr. Ford also reiterated Detroit's past support for substantially higher gas taxes -- a notion recently pilloried on the campaign trail -- as well as incentives for consumers buying vehicles like hybrids, which supplement internal combustion with electric power. 
 ''The importance of fuel economy will only increase as we go forward,'' Mr. Ford said at a press preview of the New York International Auto Show, which opens to the public tomorrow at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. ''The question is how high are they going to get and will they remain high.'' 
 But the allure of size and horsepower remains the dominant force in the American market. To that end, Ford showed a high-performance prototype of its redesigned Mustang, the GT-R. Fuel economy was not among the talking points in the nine-page press release for the 440-horsepower vehicle.
 Yesterday, General Motors introduced the first sport utility vehicle from its Saab division, the 9-7x, which will share the manufacturing base used for the Chevrolet Trailblazer and the GMC Envoy. In addition, the Chrysler Group introduced the first redesign of its Jeep Grand Cherokee in seven years. 
 Ford and other automakers in Detroit are trying to diversify beyond sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks and make passenger cars a profit center again in the United States. 
 The move is largely motivated by heavy competition from Japan and Europe, resulting in a saturated market for light-duty trucks. But Mr. Ford said the decline in passenger car sales -- from 80 percent of new-vehicle sales in 1980 to less than half today -- could abate. 
 ''I think with gasoline prices where they are, the mix shift will slow down or even stop,'' Mr. Ford said. 
 So far, record high gas prices have not dented America's passion for light-duty trucks, like S.U.V.'s, though prices are still well below inflation-adjusted highs in the early 1980's, which reached almost $3 a gallon in 2004 dollars. 
 Mr. Ford said: ''I would support some combination of gas tax, but I also know that politically that's not wildly popular, and also incentives. Why? Because I think that anything that can align the individual customer's purchase decisions with society's goals are the way to go.''
 The Bush campaign recently ran an ad branding Senator John Kerry's past support of a higher gas tax as ''wacky.'' Recapturing passenger car buyers will be difficult for Ford, G.M. and the Chrysler Group, which have lost much momentum to Japanese and European automakers. 
 Today, Ford Motor will unveil its first Lincoln sedan aimed at the market for luxury cars that sell for $30,000 or less. It will be called the Zephyr, a name Lincoln used in the 1930's and 40's. The new Zephyr is one of three midsize sedans Ford will sell next year -- one Ford, one Mercury and one Lincoln -- sharing the same manufacturing framework as the Mazda 6, from Ford's Mazda affiliate. 
 The Zephyr, an albino vision of chrome, eucalyptus wood and white leather, will compete in a cluttered field with the likes of the Cadillac CTS and the BMW 3-Series sedan. 
 ''It's going to be sort of crowded in the sedan business,'' said Daryl Hazel, the head of Lincoln-Mercury. ''It's going to be harder for anyone to do big numbers with any one product.'' 
 Analysts have said that Lincoln has been overshadowed by a sales revival of G.M.'s Cadillac brand, which has redefined its cars and S.U.V.'s with sharp-edged designs; the latest, the STS sedan, was introduced yesterday at the auto show. Both Cadillac and Lincoln have been trying to find a fountain of youth for their aging sedan buyers. 
 For Lincoln, Mr. Hazel said, ''success is new customers,'' which means taking someone else's. 
 ''We have cars we can sell to the traditional customer,'' he said. ''Nobody has better owner loyalty than Lincoln. Our opportunity, our challenge, our task is to improve our conquest rate, because we are not good at conquesting.''
 To compete in a saturated market, automakers are increasingly trying to spin off more vehicles from the same manufacturing base, which presents challenges in maintaining the identity of each brand. 
 ''Toyota, Audi, Nissan, Honda, they've been doing it for years,'' said Phil Martens, vice president for product creation for Ford. ''It's not an issue.''
 James Padilla, president of North American operations for Ford, said, ''we were very careful to distinguish what makes a Ford, what makes a Mercury and what makes a Lincoln.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ford will unveil its first sedan aimed at the market for luxury cars that sell for $30,000 or less. The car, left, will be called the Zephyr, a name Ford used for an auto in the 1930's and 40's, above. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); EXECUTIVES (57%) 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim; William Clay Jr Ford

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



174 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: China, as Summer Nears, Braces for Power Shortages

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 7 

 BODY:
China's galloping economic growth will continue to be dogged by widespread electricity shortages this year, a Chinese energy official has said.
 The deputy chairman of the State Electricity Regulatory Commission, Song Mi, told a meeting of electricity industry officials that the country faced a shortfall of 20 million kilowatts this year -- twice last year's shortfall, the official Xinhua News Agency reported late Tuesday.
 ''This year the imbalance between demand and supply will remain sizable,'' Mr. Song said. He warned that electricity shortages would be most acute in eastern and southern China, where double-digit economic growth has pushed industrial and domestic demand to new heights. 
 The projected shortfall is roughly equivalent to the low end of that experienced by California during its energy crisis in 2000.
 Businesses in the coastal provinces powering China's economic boom, especially Jiangsu and Zhejiang, are experiencing rotating electricity shutdowns, and are bracing for worse disruptions as summer nears, when a growing number of air-conditioners will put added strain on demand. 
 ''Our factory is doing O.K. now, but things will get worse as the weather heats up,'' said Chen Pintang, general manager of the Shixing Electronic Components Factory in Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang in eastern China.
 ''We've been told that electricity will still be very tight this year, and that's going to damage business,'' he said in a telephone interview. 
 His factory already shuts production every Friday and Sunday, Mr. Chen said, and production at other times is interrupted by unpredictable dips in power. 
 Business owners in Zhejiang warned that growth would be slowed by electricity shortages, and several suggested that the damage to the province's economic growth might be several times the official estimate of 0.6 percent off annual growth. 
 Last year Zhejiang's economy grew 14 percent while electricity consumption grew 23 percent.
 ''Of course it's hurting us,'' said Mo Haolin, who owns the Pengcheng metal factory in Hangzhou. ''There are a lot of orders we can't make, so it's impossible to expand, and it's getting hard to keep customers. They can't stand the uncertainty.''
 His factory closes three days a week for lack of electricity, he said in a phone interview.
 Last year electricity shortages affected about two-thirds of China, and seven provinces had serious shortages, Chinese energy officials said.
 While generation capacity has grown rapidly in the last two years, it has not been enough to keep up with demand.
 China has 385 million kilowatts of generating capacity, and another 130 million kilowatts of power plant construction has been approved by the government, Zhang Guobao, a deputy chairman of the State Development and Reform Commission, which oversees China's energy policy, said recently.
 This year some generating capacity may remain idle for lack of coal, energy officials have warned.
 China's coal production grew 22 percent in the first two months, but bottlenecks on congested railway lines and price disputes forced power plants to curtail generation, tThe Economic Daily of China reported recently. 
 Currently, about 80 percent of China's electricity is generated by coal-fired plants, with most of the rest from hydroelectric plants.
 In an effort to ease electricity shortages, the government has announced plans to restrict approvals for electricity-hungry industries like aluminum smelting, and electricity authorities have developed plans to ration distribution.
 But serious electricity shortages are likely to continue until 2006, when generating capacity is expected to catch up with demand, Mr. Zhang said.
 Some businesses are, however, findings ways to wring profit from this disruption.
 Until early this year, the Sanda Electronics Company in Taizhou, Zhejiang, specialized in making components for motorcycles. But it shifted to making diesel electricity generators for use in the home.
 Zhejiang electricity officials estimated that factories and families there have bought enough generators to produce two million kilowatts of electricity, and some local governments there have offered factories subsidies to pay for the increasingly expensive diesel oil that fuels most generators.
 ''Business has been very busy,'' a sales manager at Sanda, Zhang Qin, said. ''There's a lot of uncertainty about power supplies, so people are preparing for the summer.''
 But the Sanda factory is not exempt -- it, too, has been hit by power cuts, and for two or three days a week relies on industrial-size diesel generators for power, Mr. Zhang said.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on April 8 about power shortages in China referred incorrectly to an official of the State Electricity Regulatory Commission. The official, Song Mi, is a woman.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A vendor in Shanghai sold meat by candlelight in February. Officials have warned that power shortages could hinder growth in China. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. W1)
 Repairing a power line near Beijing in February. Factories have been warned to expect rolling blackouts. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MFG (67%); PLANT CLOSINGS (52%) Electric Light and Power; Shortages; Economic Conditions and Trends; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical)

PERSON: Song Mi; Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (95%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



175 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Rises Somewhat; Oil Lifts Import Prices

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer borrowing rose $4.2 billion in February, less than expected and the smallest increase in three months, the Federal Reserve reported yesterday. 
 In another report, the Labor Department said that prices of goods imported into the United States increased 0.9 percent in March, reflecting the drop in the value of the dollar and higher costs for petroleum and other raw material. Excluding oil, import prices have risen 1 percent in 12 months, the slowest pace since October. 
 ''This tones down some of the concerns that inflation is breaking out all over the place,'' said Douglas Porter, senior economist at BMO Nesbitt Burns in Toronto. 
 Last month's increase in the import price index was the sixth in a row and came after a rise of 0.4 percent in February. Excluding petroleum, prices increased 0.2 percent in March. 
 Prices of industrial materials rose 12 percent in the first quarter, according to an index of 18 commodities from The Journal of Commerce's Economic Cycle Research Institute, and crude oil futures increased 10 percent. Consumer prices, not counting food and energy, were up 1.2 percent in the 12 months through February. 
 The Fed said that February's borrowing through credit cards and other types of loans increased at a 2.5 percent annual pace. Consumers have received $11.2 billion more in tax refunds this year than at the corresponding time in 2003, and sales at Wal-Mart Stores and other retailers were up last month as households spent much of the extra money. 
 ''It's hard to imagine not seeing a pretty nice rise in March spending, which will probably continue into the second quarter,'' Tim Rogers, chief economist at Briefing.com in Boston, said before the report was issued. ''There is no real downside risk to the consumer.''
 Mr. Rogers had forecast that borrowing would rise in February by $2 billion, the smallest projection in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The economists had expected consumer credit to rise at a $7.5 billion pace.
 Credit card and other revolving debt rose at a $1.6 billion annual pace. Nonrevolving loans, which include car and truck loans, increased at a $2.6 billion pace compared with $7.9 billion the month before.
 The Fed's consumer credit report does not include loans secured by real estate, like mortgages and borrowing on home-equity lines of credit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT PRICES (92%); IMPORT TRADE (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); RETAILERS (79%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); FUTURES (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%) 

COMPANY: BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); BRIEFING.COM (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Labor Department (US); Journal of Commerce

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



176 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 7; TV SPORTS

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Yankees Trial Is Law Lite, an Unreal Stab at Reality TV

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J. 

 BODY:
It was legal silliness, to be sure, ESPN's mock trial yesterday of the Yankees on charges of tilting baseball's competitive balance, which will be shown tonight. There was no indictment -- had there been one, it would have been one charge of guilt by profligacy -- no grand jury, no voir dire of the jurors, no voluminous charge to the jury by ESPN Superior Court Judge Catherine Crier (once a real judge, now a Court TV host). No defendant sat beside Bruce Cutler, once John Gotti's lawyer, whose defense by adoration of the Yankees would have made George Steinbrenner kvell.
 It was a barroom argument without beer or legal briefs. It was Cutler v. the mock prosecutor Alan Dershowitz, the Yankees v. the Red Sox. But Dershowitz, defender of Claus von Bulow and an avowed Yankees loather, ceded that his beloved Red Sox were nearly as overprivileged as the Yanks. 
 ''Why aren't the Red Sox on trial?'' said Jim Bowden, the former Cincinnati general manager and a defense witness, whose praise of Steinbrenner-as-genius sounded like the prelude to a Bronx job interview.
 ''The prosecutor is from Boston, that's why the Yankees are on trial!'' Cutler said.
 The trial was Law Lite in a courtroom at the Bergen County Courthouse. There were four witnesses a side (including Jim Bouton, the former Yankees pitcher and author of ''Ball Four,'' and Mike Veeck, the third-generation baseball executive and promoter) but without any tedious detail, court reporter, DNA evidence, autopsy photographs or wiretap transcripts. The trial was taped and halted for commercials and analysis from the host Bob Ley and CNN's Jeffrey Toobin.
 Jury deliberations were taped, and the eight men and four women were told to write two sentences to explain their votes on the verdict, which was embargoed until today.
 Dershowitz played the economic card, seeking confirmation from prosecution witnesses of his view that the Yankees have turned free agency into unfair economic sport and swipe players from teams that cannot afford them and induce poorer teams to quake and fold when confronted by Steinbrenner's cash.
 Fans, Veeck testified, know that their favorite players ''will eventually play for the Yankees, which leads some of us to suicidal thoughts.''
 Dershowitz led Mike Torrez -- who pitched for the Yankees, and, while with the Red Sox, surrendered Bucky Dent's playoff home run in 1978 -- into saying that the Yankees had remade the free agency system into a league of their own.
 ''Great players want to stay with their team as long as it's the Yankees?'' Dershowitz said.
 ''Yes,'' Torrez said.
 Cutler started his opening statement by evoking Lou Gehrig and rarely veered from his pride of the Yankees theme. The Yankees pursue excellence, he said; Steinbrenner burnished the sullied Yankees image when he bought the team from CBS; the Yankees have a ''certain magic, a legerdemain.''
 ''Can I call you Goose?'' he gently said to the former closer Rich Gossage, a defense witness. Gossage sidestepped a question about competitive imbalance but praised Steinbrenner for investing money in the farm system and instilling a code of conduct that led to on-field success.
 ''I don't think the Yankees would be the Yankees had it not been for Mr. Steinbrenner,'' Gossage said.
 On cross-examination, Dershowitz tried to prove that by signing Gossage as a free agent in 1978 from the Pirates, the Yankees, through the evils of free spending, turned Pittsburgh into a sad loser.
 ''I'm not so sure they couldn't afford me,'' Gossage said.
 ''Why didn't they want you?'' Dershowitz said.
 ''Because they were cheap,'' Gossage said.
 ''They were cheap because they weren't winning championships,'' Dershowitz said, looking to prove his Yankees-as-devil point, which ignored a reality: a year later, the Pirates won the World Series.
 Dershowitz and Cutler saved their best for their closing statements.
 ''This case is about antipathy and animosity toward a Yankee franchise that the prosecution has portrayed as bullies,'' Cutler said in his final argument, which included a whack at ''the cabal from Boston'' that brought the case. 
 Dershowitz offered subtler dissing. ''We hear the Yankees and Steinbrenner are great, but we don't know because of their money,'' he said, adding that the verdict on whether capitalist conquests like Steinbrenner's are the equivalent of baseball smarts will not be known ''unless we level the playing field.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers preparing Yankee Stadium for the team's first home game of the season, this afternoon against the Chicago White Sox. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); FORENSICS (78%); JUDGES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (75%); TRANSCRIPTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%); WRITERS (69%); WIRETAPPING (63%); EMPLOYMENT (53%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (51%); DNA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ESPN INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (83%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



177 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Are There Any Iraqis In Iraq?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
We are at a perilous juncture in Iraq. Two things are clear, and there's only one question left to be answered. What's clear is that there are no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and there are no Viet Cong in Iraq. The key unanswered question is: Are there any Iraqis in Iraq? Is there a critical mass ready to identify themselves -- not as Shiites, Kurds and Sunnis -- but as Iraqis, who are ready to fight for the chance of self-determination for the Iraqi people as a whole?
 When I say that there are no Viet Cong in Iraq, I mean that the Iraqi ''insurgents'' opposing the U.S. today cannot plausibly claim to be the authentic expressions of Iraqi nationalism -- as the Viet Cong claimed to be in the Vietnam War. The forces killing Americans and Iraqi police are primarily Sunni Muslims who want to restore the rule and privileges of their minority community and Baath Party, or foreign and local Islamists who are trying to undermine any prospect of modernism, pluralism and secularism in Iraq. 
 Virtually every poll taken since the fall of Saddam indicates that neither of these groups -- who have tried to disguise their real objectives behind a mask of anti-Americanism -- represents the vast majority of Iraqis, who want to elect their own government, free of intimidation.
 But wars are not won by polls. They are won by those ready to fight and die in the alleys for their cause. Armed, masked young Arab men -- motivated by the toxic mix of radical Islam, anti-Americanism and humiliation, and high on the drug of defeating the hated foreigner, even if it will be ultimately self-defeating for them -- can be turned back only by an Iraqi army motivated by a sense of nationhood and a desire for self-determination.
 We cannot want a decent Iraq more than the Iraqi silent majority. Because this is an urban war, and U.S. soldiers having to fight house to house inside Iraqi cities cannot win it. Only Iraqis can. If we try to fight this war ourselves, we will kill too many innocent Iraqis, blow up too many mosques and eventually turn the whole population against us -- even if they know in their hearts that what we're trying to build is better than what the insurgents want.
 In fairness to Iraqis, though, asking the silent majority there to stand up right now is asking a lot. After decades of Saddam's brutal rule, civil society there was just beginning to come back, and the first threads of trust between the different communities were just beginning to be tied. The whole purpose of the U.S. occupation was to build a constitutional framework in which this center could be developed.
 This was always a long shot. But, I believe, after 9/11, trying to build a decent state in the heart of a drifting Arab-Muslim world -- a world that is manufacturing millions of frustrated, unemployed youths -- was worth trying. But it takes resources and legitimacy, and the Bush team has provided too little of both.
 From the start, this has always been a Karl Rove war. Lots of photo-ops, lots of talk about ''I am a war president,'' lots of premature banners about ''Mission Accomplished,'' but totally underresourced, because the president never wanted to ask Americans to sacrifice. The Bush motto has been: ''We're at war, let's party -- let's cut taxes, forgo any gasoline tax, not mobilize too many reserves and, by the way, let's disband the Iraqi Army and unemploy 500,000 Iraqi males, because that's what Ahmad Chalabi and his pals want us to do.'' 
 From the day the looting started in Baghdad, it has been obvious that we did not have enough troops to create a secure framework and to control Iraq's borders. As a result, local militias began to spring up everywhere. If you turn on your TV, you can see how well armed they became while Donald Rumsfeld was insisting we had enough troops there to control Iraq.
 I know the right thing to do now is to stay the course, defeat the bad guys, disarm the militias and try to build a political framework that will hold the now wavering Shiite majority on our side -- because if we lose them, the game is over. But this will take time and sacrifice, and the only way to generate enough of that is by enlisting the U.N., NATO and all of our allies to make the development of a decent state in Iraq a global priority.
 Without more allies, without more global legitimacy -- and without an Iraqi center ready to stand up against their Khmer Rouge now posing as their Viet Cong -- we cannot win in Iraq. We will be building a house with bricks and no cement. In that case, we will have to move to Plan B. Too bad we never really had Plan A. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARMIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); POLICE FORCES (68%); ARMED FORCES (62%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) United Nations; North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (73%) Iraq; Europe; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



178 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Plans to Buy An Indian Owner Of Call Centers

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, April 7 

 BODY:
I.B.M. said on Wednesday that it would acquire Daksh eServices, the third-largest outsourcing company in India with call centers providing technical support and customer care services. 
 The move comes at a time of intense political debate in the United States about the outsourcing of back-office and technology jobs overseas. 
 ''India is one of the fastest-growing economies in the world, and an important marketplace for I.B.M.,'' Abraham Thomas, general manager of I.B.M.'s India subsidiary, said in a statement. The acquisition, he said, would extend I.B.M.'s leadership position in the rapidly growing market for business processes outsourcing. 
 Daksh, a privately held company based in the suburbs of New Delhi, has a client list that includes Citibank and Amazon.com, with sales that exceeded $60 million last year. It employs 6,000 workers and recently opened a call center in the Philippines, where it expects to employ 1,000 workers. 
 Both I.B.M. and Daksh declined to reveal the sale price, but industry experts placed the value of the deal, expected to close in May, at $160 million to $170 million. 
 The I.B.M. acquisition is the largest such deal in the Indian technology industry. Industry leaders view the acquisition as a vote of confidence at a time when India's outsourcing sector faces criticism in the United States for taking away American jobs. 
 ''This is a very positive portent, and a strong vote for India as a major player in offshore outsourcing,'' said Kiran Karnik, president of the National Association for Software and Services Companies, India's leading software and services industry group. 
 The $3.5 billion Indian outsourcing industry, which provides services like online technical support and payroll processing, has expanded rapidly, drawing from the India's large skilled, English-speaking labor pool. Many companies have grown by more than 50 percent for the last three years. 
 I.B.M.'s unit in India, which employs 9,000 workers, has hardware, software, research and consulting operations. It also competes in the back-office services market with Accenture as well as software leaders in India, like Infosys Technologies and Wipro, which have back-office services units. Shares of I.B.M. fell 62 cents, to $93.08.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); CALL CENTERS (91%); OUTSOURCING (91%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (89%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); OFFSHORING (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%) 

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (84%); ACCENTURE PLC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corp; Daksh eServices (India)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (84%); INFY (NYSE) (84%); INFY (NSE) (84%); ACN (NYSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%) India; Philippines

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



179 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Sept. 11 Prisoner Freed
A German court released Mounir el-Motassadeq, convicted in the Sept. 11 terror attacks, pending a retrial later this year. PAGE A18

Voters Reject Wal-Mart Plan
Voters in Inglewood, Calif., said no to a plan by Wal-Mart to build a 60-acre complex virtually exempt from state and local regulation. PAGE A20

Kerry's Economic Agenda
John Kerry proposed spending caps and the adoption of many Clinton adminstration economic rules to combat rising deficits. PAGE A22

A Break From Shootings
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg cites a recent respite in shootings in the Bronx to highlight a decline in crime in New York City. PAGE B1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (85%); CRIME RATES (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



180 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Australia Feeling Nervous as Its Dollar Soars

BYLINE: By KAREN MIDDLETON

DATELINE: CANBERRA, Australia, April 7 

 BODY:
It is usually the brightly colored polymer bills, with their holographic markings, that make the Australian dollar stand out in a currency crowd. But the volatile ''Aussie'' has grabbed more than aesthetic attention recently after a breakneck rise against its American counterpart -- a rise that has this nation's exporters shuddering.
 The roller coaster currency plunged to historic lows of just under 50 American cents in April 2001, then hit a seven-year high of 80 cents this February.
 The Australian dollar has faltered lately in the wake of the Madrid terrorist attack, standing now at around 76 cents. But one of Australia's biggest banks, Westpac, forecasts that it will hit 80 again in the third quarter. 
 With the Australian currency's rise, Westpac warns of a potential double blow for tourism, making Australia less affordable for price-sensitive overseas tourists and making foreign destinations more attractive to locals looking for a bargain vacation.
 On the bright side, Westpac noted that the resources sector is helping to offset the domestic economic impact as commodity prices have risen 40 percent in United States dollar terms since early 2003. Not so, though, for manufacturers.
 In its 2003 survey of 800 manufacturers, the Australian Industry Group, one of the nation's biggest employer groups, found that 57 percent of companies blamed the higher currency for lower competitiveness, with only 17 percent saying it had helped. The survey reported a combined 4.6 percent cut in export revenue over the year, equal to a loss of export income of 3.2 billion Australian dollars, and estimated that each 1-cent gain above 70 cents reduced manufacturing export earnings by about 0.3 percent, or 210 million Australian dollars.
 Some large-scale exporters use hedging techniques to try to offset some effects of currency fluctuations. Even so, one of them, the wine producer Southcorp, estimated that the 24 percent rise in the currency from June to December last year cut sales revenue by 68.4 million Australian dollars.
 In a statement in February reporting a 39 percent rise in half-year profits, to 72.3 million Australian dollars, Southcorp's chief executive, John Ballard, said the combination of a wine oversupply and a high dollar had prevented bigger gains.
 Smaller exporters like PacVac, a maker of portable backpack-style vacuum cleaners based in Western Australia, are more exposed.
 PacVac produces 20,000 vacuums a year, exporting about half to a dozen overseas markets, the biggest of them being the United States. Its managing director, Doug Riley, says the currency's rise from 56 cents since December 2002 had cut profits by up to 30,000 Australian dollars on the 896 machines that fit inside each 40-foot shipping container.
 Although the machines' motors come from Europe, small gains against the euro have not offset his export losses.
 ''Everything we sell around the world is measured in U.S. dollars, but we're producing in Australian dollars,'' he says, frustrated at being squeezed at both ends. His ideal rate would be back at about 56 cents, when exporters were happy.
 The Reserve Bank of Australia says the policies of some Asian countries that peg their currencies to the United States dollar have steepened the Australian dollar's rise.
 Most influential is China, where production costs are substantially lower than in Australia.
 China's influence on Australian export income is increasingly direct. Tired of battling relatively high production costs and the erratic currency, Mr. Riley of PacVac is succumbing to China's siren song and shifting his business. He plans to start producing vacuum cleaners from a factory near Shanghai by November.
 It is a move unlikely to be cheered in Australia, where he will forfeit the annual subsidy of 20,000 Australian dollars he receives under a government program to encourage small locally based exporters.
 Mr. Riley says Australians feel that the level of their dollar reflects somehow on their nation's status.
 ''Every time the currency plunges, it's a major problem for governments because the perception of Australians is that if we've got a low currency, it means the economy is bad,'' he said.
 Likewise, they do not seem to see the pitfalls in a rocketing exchange rate.
 ''Australians as people take heart because it's a sense of pride,'' he said. ''But longer term, it's not practical because it takes jobs. They say, Great, it's cheaper to have holidays in Bali. But you can't afford a trip to Bali if you haven't got a job.''
 Mr. Riley raised his concerns in February with Prime Minister John Howard at a business forum in the Western Australian state capital, Perth. In reply, Mr. Howard said Australia's currency strength was a direct reflection of the low-dollar, low-interest-rate policy in the United States.
 ''That is the policy they have chosen to follow, and it is having an effect on most countries, including Australia,'' Mr. Howard told the gathering. ''There are winners and losers when the dollar goes up, and there are winners and losers when the dollar goes down.''
 He said some businesses, including at least one big retailer he chose not to identify, were celebrating.
 ''He thinks it is fantastic that we've got this high dollar,'' Mr. Howard said. ''I respect very much the difficulty it is imposing on many of our exporters. I am sorry. I hope that we reach an exchange-rate level that is fair to everybody soon.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''On the Rise''The Australian dollar has soared over the last year, reaching a seven-year high in February.Graph tracks the daily close of Australian dollar in U.S. cents since January 2003.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (88%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EURO (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); WINERIES (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: Westpac

PERSON: Karen Middleton

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (58%) AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (78%) AUSTRALIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



181 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: New York-New Jersey Port Has Record Cargo Volume

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., April 7 

 BODY:
The value of cargo moving through the New York and New Jersey port in a year reached the $100 billion mark in 2003, a record for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
 The amount represented a 12 percent increase over the previous year and continued a stretch of more than five years in which the volume of imports and exports moving in containers or in bulk has grown, according to Port Authority figures.
 As in previous years, the growth was the result of increased automobile imports and exports, rapidly increasing imports of goods manufactured in Asia, a brisk consumer demand in the United States for those goods and a rise in the number of all-water services offering shipping to the New York port, the busiest on the East Coast. 
 Richard M. Larrabee, the Port Authority's director of port commerce, said Wednesday that the shipping companies, which handled some 4 million cargo containers and 55 million tons of bulk cargo last year, had become ''very efficient'' in meeting the new demand and managed to undercut West Coast companies by as much as $600 per container.
 In previous years, the release of the annual cargo statistics for the region's ports was a low-key event in which Mr. Larrabee, with the aid of graphics and computerized presentation software, held a briefing in a conference room at the port agency's Manhattan headquarters. But this year the announcement was made by Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey, who stood on Wednesday at the port offices of the APM Terminal of the Maersk Sealand company before floor-to-ceiling windows that overlooked two large container ships and gigantic machinery being used to load and unload them.
 ''Last year's achievements have had a great economic impact,'' said Mr. McGreevey, who sought to contrast New Jersey's job growth, in an economy anchored by the port, with slower job growth nationally. ''New Jersey now has the opportunity to capitalize on those achievements and bolster our economic growth with the right kinds of investments.''
 To that end, he said, the Port Authority's current budget included more than $305 million in capital expenditures to deepen berths and channels to accommodate larger vessels, expand dockside storage and cargo handling and increase rail access in and out of the port.
 Because the New Jersey side of New York Harbor has more land available for building than the New York side, it has been the scene of nearly all of the port's expansion over the last two decades to meet a soaring volume of containerized cargo. This gave the state a ''strategic advantage'' in the economic sweepstakes, said Mr. McGreevey, who noted that the port operations generated $9.4 billion in wages annually and $22 billion in other economic activity.
 The Port Authority chairman, Anthony R. Coscia, a New Jersey lawyer who was appointed by Mr. McGreevey to the agency's 12-member board of commissioners, said there was potential for doubling or even tripling the value of goods passing through the port by making capital improvements that are planned or envisioned.
 In 2002, an increase in cargo volume nearly swamped the port, generating complaints by truckers that getting in and out of the vast terminals was more trying than gridlock on city streets. But since then, said Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority, terminals have extended their hours, more than 1,200 additional longshoremen have been hired and improvements in rail handling and port roadways have eased some of the problems.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey spoke yesterday at the APM Terminal in Elizabeth about the impact of cargo shipping on New Jersey. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



182 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Princeton Tries To Put a Cap On Giving A's

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Aiming to halt widespread grade inflation afflicting Ivy League colleges, Princeton University officials are proposing to limit the number of A's that its professors award.
 The goal would be to lower the number of A's to 35 percent of all grades, from about 47 percent now. 
 Although there has been wide discussion of the easy grading policies at top universities in recent years, most highly selective colleges and universities have continued to give out abundant A's. 
 A Princeton survey last year found that A's made up between 44 percent and 55 percent of undergraduate grades at 11 institutions: the eight Ivy League colleges plus Stanford, M.I.T. and the University of Chicago. 
 ''We need to be more discriminating than we have been in the grades we reward,'' said Nancy Weiss Malkiel, dean of Princeton's undergraduate college, who released the proposal yesterday.
 She said, ''We believe there should be some correlation between intellectual performance and reward. We want grading to help students evaluate what they have learned, how well they have learned it and where they need to invest additional effort.''
 If Princeton's faculty approves the proposal later this month, it would be by far the biggest step in recent years by a top university to change the way it evaluates its students.
 Harvard University said two years ago that it would reduce the number of students graduating with honors and make slight revisions in its grading system. 
 But a recent report by the dean of Harvard College, Benedict H. Gross, showed that after a tiny dip in average grades -- from 12.67 (on Harvard's 15-point scale) in 1999-2000 to 12.58 in 2001-2002 -- grades inched up again to 12.68 last year. (On a 4-point scale, where 4.0 is an A, that would have represented a 3.41 average in 1999-2000, 3.39 two years later, and 3.41 last year.)
 Arthur E. Levine, president of Teachers College at Columbia University and an expert on higher education, said Princeton's proposal highlighted how big a problem grade inflation is.
 ''It's extraordinary that limiting A's to 35 percent represents an improvement in grade inflation,'' he said. ''Princeton's plan won't solve the problem, but it should ameliorate it and stop its advance.''
 Dean Malkiel of Princeton said that the proposed grading limit would return grades to the levels of the late 1980's and early 1990's, and that some departments -- particularly in the natural sciences -- were already at or close to this level. 
 She said she expected some professors to oppose the plan. 
 ''I know from our department chairs that they have some colleagues who say, 'No one is going to tell me how to grade.'''
 But she said the university was not trying to abridge academic freedom or tell teachers what grades they should give. Under the plan, grades could vary class by class, but each department would be expected to try to meet the limit on A's. And for the first time, the faculty would be allowed to see the grades for every department. 
 ''It's really a matter of the faculty agreeing to do this together,'' the dean said. ''It all comes down to cooperation, moral suasion and exhortation.'' She said that the college began working on the issue of grade inflation about six years ago, but that grades had continued to climb. 
 In a memo sent to faculty and students yesterday, she said that 65 percent of the graduating seniors in the class of 2002 had grade-point averages of B-plus or better, and fewer than 5 percent fell below B-minus. A student with a straight C average, she said, stood second to last.
 When she talked with department chairmen, Dean Malkiel said, they told her that none of them could rein in their grades alone. A faculty committee led by Dean Malkiel developed the proposal to limit the number of A's given out.
 Christian Wildberg, a classics professor who was a member of the committee, said yesterday that he was ''pretty sure'' that the proposal would be approved by the faculty.
 ''I can feel the changes already among my colleagues,'' he said. ''We are thinking already about grading in a different way.''
 He said he had begun to give fewer A's, and had not received any complaints. ''I don't think anyone felt he was being treated unfairly,'' Professor Wildberg said. ''Maybe there was a perception that the course I was giving was harder than they thought it would be. But I think anyone, when they sat down and thought about it, and thought about the essays they wrote and their participation in class, would have said that their grades were fair.'' 
 Dean Malkiel said that many students supported the notion of stricter grading because they understood that it would help them.
 In her memo, she quoted one student as saying, ''If I get the same grade for my very best work that I get for work that is not my very best, I'm less motivated to try to stretch as far as I can.''
 Princeton students expressed mixed views about the plan.
 Juewon Khwarg, a junior from Los Angeles who plans to apply to medical school, said he understood the university's concern but felt that the change would be "too abrupt.'' 
 "Princeton students will understand the reason for the sudden drop in grades next year,'' he said. "But medical and law schools will not acclimate that quickly.'' Scott Grant , a junior from Bloomfield Hills, Mich., who is also planning to apply to medical school, said his gut reaction was that it might adversely affect his chances of getting into medical school. But he said he concluded that it would be useful to have a uniform grading policy. 
 Dean Malkiel said that she did not believe Princeton students would be at a disadvantage under the proposed plan. She said that she had talked to numerous graduate school deans -- at medical schools, law schools and elsewhere -- as well as to potential employers. Most of them had encouraged her to take this step, saying that they would know that ''Princeton grades are real grades.''
 ''In the main, the theme was that this was a national problem,'' she said, ''and that it would be terrific if a university had the courage to take it on.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''An 'A' Just Isnt What It Used to Be''Since the 1970's, the earliest period for which data are available, the distribution of grades at Princeton University has become increasingly skewed toward the top of the range.Graph tracks the percentage of A's, B's, C's, D's and F's given to all departments, Humanities and Natural Sciences departments.Note: Pass/fail grades not included(Source by Princeton University)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); APPROVALS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TEACHER EDUCATION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



183 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Economic Scene

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Stock options are still a gamble, but the size of the pot may soon be clearer.

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
THE Financial Accounting Standards Board published its long-anticipated statement about options accounting last week, and as expected it recommended that options grants to employees be counted as an expense in corporate financial statements. Barring any last-minute changes, this will probably become a requirement of the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2005.
 Technology companies have doggedly lobbied against this change, but the corporate scandals of the last few years have made Congress reluctant to block moves toward more transparent accounting. 
 The central issues in options compensation are examined in ''The Trouble with Stock Options,'' an article in the summer 2003 issue of The Journal of Economic Perspectives by Brian J. Hall of the Harvard Business School and Kevin J. Murphy of the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California. (A summary of the article is at http://www.nber.org/digest/mar04/w9784.html.) 
 Under current accounting standards, companies have to describe in detail the option grants that they make to employees, but they are not required to estimate or report a value for these options. Under the accounting board's proposed change, companies will be required to assign a specific value to these options and subtract that value from earnings.
 Researchers like David Aboody at the University of California, Los Angeles, have found that financial markets already seem to do a pretty good job in valuing options grants, so such a change is unlikely to have a big effect on stock prices.
 Despite such findings, many technology executives say they believe that shareholders will force them to cut back on options grants if they must expense them, and that this will make it harder to attract and retain employees. 
 Professors Hall and Murphy argue that options are an inefficient form of compensation, particularly for rank-and-file employees, who have little influence on corporate decisions and are most likely averse to taking unnecessary risks. Such employees would, it is argued, be better off with more liquid and less risky rewards.
 This is certainly in accord with conventional economic theory, but then again, according to economic theory, Las Vegas should not exist.
 In reality, people sometimes like to gamble, and a young engineer just out of college might well choose a job with a low salary but a chance to strike it rich. All the engineers I know are convinced that they are experts at picking winning technologies.
 Silicon Valley executives are probably right that offering options has been an effective way to induce people to work for new, risky companies. 
 (Disclosure: I have received options grants from various start-ups as compensation for consulting and advisory services. I have also dropped a few dollars into the slot machines in Las Vegas, but don't tell any of my economist colleagues.)
 However, even if employees sometimes find risky compensation attractive, there is no reason that giving employees stock instead of options would not be just as effective. Indeed, some companies -- Microsoft is a notable example -- have replaced their options programs with stock grants, without mass defections.
 Publicly traded stocks have the attractive feature of explicit market values. The value of options, on the other hand, generally has to be estimated. One problem with the accounting board's proposal is that it does not recommend a specific way to value options, but allows companies to choose among various option-pricing models.
 The traditional choice has been the Black-Scholes formula, but it applies to options that are freely traded on organized exchanges with lifetimes of a few months.
 Employee options generally have a long lifetime and cannot be traded. Restrictions often apply to the exercise of the options, and typically they must be forfeited if employees leave the company.
 In principle, the ''binomial pricing model'' allows for adjustments for some of these additional complications. It gives the same options values as the Black-Scholes formula, given the same assumptions, but is more flexible in that it shows new values as the assumptions are changed. Even so, it is a model, not magic.
 For example, the binomial model allows the incorporation of changes in the risk posed by the underlying stock. But some pattern has to be specified about how that risk is assumed to change: is the stock going to fluctuate more in the future than it does now, or less?
 A bad assumption will yield a bad estimate, even if the model itself is accurate.
 If companies adopt radically different ways of measuring option values, it could become even more difficult to compare earnings across companies than it is now.
 Investors may become suspicious of complex methods of options valuation, figuring that companies using the methods must have something to hide. If using a complex valuation for options becomes a negative signal, well-established public companies may switch to restricted stock grants or other forms of compensation.
 Companies that stick with options will still be faced with a difficult valuation problem. Two Stanford economists, Jeremy I. Bulow and John Shoven, have outlined a novel way that companies could account for options that might help solve this problem.
 Typical options grants require that employees who leave the company exercise their options within 90 days. Hence, long-lived option grants can be viewed as 90-day options that are extended every quarter that the employee stays with the firm.
 Mr. Bulow and Mr. Shoven propose that options therefore should be treated as a continuing expense: each quarter, the company would subtract the value of extending its existing options another three months as a compensation expense, along with the three-month cost of any newly granted options.
 Compared with proposals that require a once-and-for-all valuation at the time the options are issued, the Bulow-Shoven method would probably give a more accurate picture of the cost of outstanding options grants on a continuing basis.
 Companies may decide that recalculating the value of past options grants every quarter is not worth the trouble, and move to straight stock grants. 
 But this is unlikely to have a negative impact on recruiting engineering talent: if hot-shot engineering grads are attracted by the opportunity to strike it rich, holding speculative stock should be just about as attractive as holding speculative options.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Contrary to conventional economic theory, some employees are willing to risk striking it rich with stock options. Shareholders, however, want to know the size of the wager. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (91%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); LOBBYING (71%); SCANDALS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (93%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%) Financial Accounting Standards Board; Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: Hal R Varian

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



184 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1; STATE OF THE ART

LENGTH: 1854 words

HEADLINE: Cut-Rate Calling, By Way of the Net

BYLINE: By David Pogue. 
E-mail: Pogue@nytimes.com

 BODY:
EVERY time an important piece of our lives goes electronic, much is gained, but something is lost, too. Audiophiles say that compact discs don't sound as warm as vinyl records. Home theaters are neat, but don't offer the communal fun of a movie theater crowd. And no matter how efficient e-mail may be, it can't touch the joy of receiving a handwritten letter on fine stationery, thoughtfully composed and concluding with the words ''check enclosed.''
 So stand back. The latest life component to make a radical, Internet-driven shift is ordinary home telephone service. 
 This development is annoyingly called voice-over-Internet protocol, or VoIP, which means ''calls that use the Internet's wiring instead of the phone company's.'' When you sign up, you get a little box that goes between your existing telephone and your broadband modem (that is, your cable modem or D.S.L. box, a requirement for most of these services). 
 At that point you can make unlimited local, regional and long-distance calls anywhere in the United States for a fixed fee of $20 to $40 a month (plus the cost of your broadband Internet service, of course). Overseas calls cost about 3 cents a minute. These figures aren't subject to inflation by a motley assortment of tacked-on fees, either; voice-over-Internet service is exempt from F.C.C. line charges, state 911 surcharges, number-portability service charges and so on.
 Now, nerds have been making PC-to-PC Internet calls for years, using their computers' microphone and speakers. But VoIP is different: you dial and talk using a conventional phone. The computer doesn't even have to be on.
 The gold rush began last year when a startup called Vonage offered a $35-a-month calling plan. Soon it was joined by a crowd of similarly little-known services with names like VoicePulse, Packet 8, Broadvox and VoiceGlo.
 Recently, though, some much bigger names began taking the technology seriously: AT&T arrived on the scene last week with an Internet-based service, CallVantage, and last fall Cablevision, the cable TV company, began offering its own phone service, Optimum Voice. (Technically, Optimum Voice isn't an Internet service; it connects to the regular phone network by cable TV wiring. A review is on Page 7.)
 Most of these services have a jaw-dropping list of features. They include call waiting; caller ID; caller ID blocking (your number is invisible to those you call); call forwarding (incoming calls are automatically routed to, say, your cellphone when you're not home); call return (dial *69 to call back the last person who called you); call transfer (''You'll have to ask my dad in Denver about that; here, I'll transfer you''); automatic busy-line redial; Do Not Disturb (all calls go directly to voice mail during specified hours); Find Me (incoming calls try various phone numbers until you answer); multiple ring (incoming calls make all your various phone numbers ring at once); three-way calling, and more. 
 Now, $20 to $40 may not necessarily represent an earth-shattering discount from your existing phone bills. Verizon, for example, offers unlimited local and long-distance residential phone service -- the usual way, over phone wires -- with five calling features for $60 a month (not counting all those exciting taxes and fees). SBC, another Baby Bell, offers unlimited calling with 11 features for $55.
 Still, even $20 a month is a decent savings. Besides, Internet phone services often use the power of the Web to enhance those standard calling features. For example, you can listen to your voice mail by dialing *123 on your phone, by visiting a Web page or by sitting back and letting your new Internet phone company send you sound attachments by e-mail. VoIP fans love that; not only can they save important messages forever, but they can also retrieve their messages from anywhere in the world.
 At this point, some readers have no doubt skipped to the Sports section. For many people, a natural reaction is: ''Why take something as simple and reliable as the telephone and muck it up with complexity?'' That's a legitimate concern, and only the first sign that VoIP service isn't for everybody. 
 Here's another: when you have VoIP phone service, your phone number no longer requires any relationship to your physical location. You can choose any area code offered by the VoIP company. It need not be the area code where you live -- in fact, it probably won't be, because at this early stage, the VoIP companies don't have access to numbers in every locality. You may live in Denver, but choose a Dallas number.
 What's nice about this independence is that you can travel with your little VoIP box. You can plug a telephone into it anywhere you can find broadband Internet service. Your home phone number will make the phone ring whether you're in Roanoke, Raleigh or Russia. 
 Some companies even offer a second phone number for the same line (Vonage, VoicePulse, and Broadvox charge $5, $5 and $0 a month, respectively). So if you live in New York (area code 212) but have relatives in Cleveland (216), you can opt for a 216 bonus number that makes you a local call for your relatives. 
 The downside of all this, of course, is that you may wind up being a long-distance call for people in your hometown. Conversely, you have to dial 1 + area code for every call you make, even to the house next door. No question, in VoIP land, things can get very weird very fast.
 While you're contemplating the drawbacks of Internet calling, consider this: most VoIP adapters accommodate only one handset per line. Many Internet phone customers wind up buying cordless phone systems that permit several handsets to communicate with a single base station. (Some fans hire an electrician to install the adapter where the phone lines enter the house, so that it affects all phone jacks, but that's a complex and iffy approach.)
 Remember, too, that you're now completely off the phone company's grid, which has a number of ramifications. First, your number is unlisted whether you like it or not. Second, only a few companies let you dial 411 (Broadvox, VoicePulse and, for a fee, Vonage) and 911 (Broadvox, Vonage and AT&T). But in either case, if your power or Internet service ever goes out, you'll lose your phone service too. Most VoIP services can auto-route incoming calls to a different number when the system goes down, but most VOIPers keep a cellphone as a backup anyway.
 Or a basic phone-company line. That will come in handy if you have gadgets that require a traditional analog phone line, like a TiVo, a home alarm system or a fax machine. (Vonage offers a fax line for $10 a month; Broadvox and AT&T say they'll lick the fax-line problem later this year.) 
 The sound quality of VoIP calls is amazing. Every call sounds like it's being made from downstairs. The problem is delay (or latency, as telecom wonks call it). On Vonage, Packet8 or Broadvox, the delay is so severe your conversation partners come across not only as rude, because they're constantly ''interrupting'' you, but also distracted, because their timing seems off when they are reacting to your dramatic revelations and jokes. 
 The worst part, of course, is that you sound equally rude and distracted to them.
 Using your computer to surf the Web doesn't affect the call quality. But downloading a file can make you sound ''staticky,'' ''watery'' or ''jiggly'' (to use my test callees' terms).
 Your equipment, time of day and Internet speed can affect the severity of these problems. But in my testing, only VoicePulse and AT&T escaped the voice-delay issue; only Vonage and AT&T seemed exempt from the jiggly water sound during downloads. 
 All right, suppose you're still game. You have a cellphone or backup land line, you love features and you figure you can save hundreds of dollars a year. How do you choose an Internet phone company?
 If you care about having an area code that matches your current one, look for a company that offers numbers in that area. Packet8, Vonage and Broadvox offer phone numbers in 47, 39 and 32 states, respectively, although for only a few area codes in each state. At the opposite extreme is AT&T, which currently offers only area codes in New Jersey and Texas (although anyone can sign up, of course). But AT&T, like all of these companies, intends to expand rapidly in the coming year.
 For sheer economy, Packet8 is almost unbelievable. It offers fewer calling features than its rivals (no speed dial, auto-redial, or Find Me), and the voice-delay problem can be bad. But imagine having unlimited local, regional and long-distance calling for $20 a month.
 VoicePulse is another standout, thanks to its long list of security features. Telemarketer blocking rejects calls from automated dialing computers; international call blocking prevents guests or teenagers from racking up an overseas bill; and call filtering offers astonishing control over who (in your address book) can call you at what hours. The $25 monthly plan is an excellent value, although it requires a one-year commitment after the trial period. (All of the plans offer a money-back trial period.) 
 But in terms of pure excellence, AT&T's CallVantage service takes the cake. At $40 a month, it's the most expensive service, but the call quality is close to perfect (no download distortion, almost no voice delay). You get a beautifully written manual, cheekily called ''User's Guide for the Digital Communication Revolution.'' All of these services offer a real-time, Web-based call log (numbers only), but on AT&T's, you can click on a number to see the name of the caller, click on the voice-mail icon to hear the message that person left for you, click on the number to return the call, and so on.
 AT&T also offers what it's called a voice portal, a local number that you can dial to retrieve voice mail, change your settings (Do Not Disturb, for example) and even make calls. You can reach the portal from any phone -- a pay phone, a cellphone or a friend's phone, for example -- which means that you can get to your voice mail or make free calls even when you're out or when the power's out.
 Finally, AT&T's phone support center is always open. I know that because it took until 2 a.m. to get AT&T's adapter box working. (My home network includes an Ethernet router -- an inexpensive box that distributes a broadband Internet signal to several computers. The adapters from most VoIP companies plug right into an empty jack on this router. But the AT&T, Vonage and Broadvox boxes must be installed before the router, between it and the broadband modem. That's a small point for most people, but a migraine nightmare for consumers whose cable modem isn't even on the same floor as the router. Ahem.)
 At this early moment in the birth of Internet phone companies, you can save all kinds of money by tolerating some quirks and peccadilloes. But as the VoIP companies expand their area-code offerings, work the kinks out of the voice transmissions and build up their network of intermediary 411 and 911 call centers, the benefits of Internet-based calling will entail fewer and fewer compromises.


GRAPHIC: Photo: CLICK AWAY -- With CallVantage, AT&T's Internet-based phone service, as with its competitors, customers can view online logs of all their calling. (pg. G7)Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)(pg. G1)Chart: ''6-Way Calling''Phone service over the Internet -- like conventional calling -- comes with a range of pricing plans and features, including these basic offerings from six providers.PLAN DETAILSUnlimited plan price per month (1)AT&T CallVantage: $40 (2)Broadvox Direct: $30Packet8: $20Voiceglo: $30VoicePulse: $25Vonage: $35Canada callingAT&T CallVantage: 5 cents/minuteBroadvox Direct: FreePacket8: FreeVoiceglo: FreeVoicePulse: 3/minuteVonage: FreeSetup chargeAT&T CallVantage: $30 (3)Broadvox Direct: $35Packet8: $30Voiceglo: FreeVoicePulse: $30Vonage: $78.76Price of adapter boxAT&T CallVantage: $60 (3)Broadvox Direct: FreePacket8: FreeVoiceglo: $80VoicePulse: $80Vonage: FreeLength of commitmentAT&T CallVantage: VariesBroadvox Direct: 1 monthPacket8: 1 monthVoiceglo: 1 monthVoicePulse: 1 yearVonage: 1 monthNumber of states/area codes availableAT&T CallVantage: 2/13Broadvox Direct: 32/255Packet8: 47/278Voiceglo: 25/184VoicePulse: 17/62Vonage: 39/178Second numberAT&T CallVantage: n/aBroadvox Direct: FreePacket8: $20 monthVoiceglo: $30VoicePulse: $5 monthVonage: $5 month411/911AT&T CallVantage: No/yesBroadvox Direct: Yes/yesPacket8: No/noVoiceglo: No/no (4)VoicePulse: Yes/noVonage: $1 a call/yesLength of online call logAT&T CallVantage: 60 daysBroadvox Direct: 12 monthsPacket8: 12 monthsVoiceglo: noneVoicePulse: UnlimitedVonage: UnlimitedPhone support hours (Eastern)AT&T CallVantage: 24 hoursBroadvox Direct: M-F. 8a-9p/Sat. 10a-6pPacket8: M-F: 11a-8pVoiceglo: M-F: 9a-9p/Sat. 9a-6pVoicePulse: 24 hoursVonage: 24 hours(1) Unlimited local, regional, and long distance. Other plans are available.(2) $20 for first six months(3) Waived until May 31(4) Coming this year, company saysPHONE FEATURESCaller ID shows nameAT&T CallVantage: No (1)Broadvox Direct: YesPacket8: NoVoiceglo: NoVoicePulse: YesVonage: YesBlock callers not in your contact listAT&T CallVantage: YesBroadvox Direct: YesPacket8: NoVoiceglo: NoVoicePulse: YesVonage: NoCall return (*69)AT&T CallVantage: Yes (2)Broadvox Direct: YesPacket8: NoVoiceglo: NoVoicePulse: YesVonage: YesCall transfer to different numberAT&T CallVantage: NoBroadvox Direct: YesPacket8: YesVoiceglo: NoVoicePulse: YesVonage: YesThree-way callingAT&T CallVantage: Yes (3)Broadvox Direct: YesPacket8: YesVoiceglo: No (1)VoicePulse: YesVonage: YesSpeed dialAT&T CallVantage: YesBroadvox Direct: YesPacket8: NoVoiceglo: YesVoicePulse: YesVonage: NoRedial until not busyAT&T CallVantage: NoBroadvox Direct: YesPacket8: NoVoiceglo: NoVoicePulse: YesVonage: YesDo Not Disturb (4)AT&T CallVantage: YesBroadvox Direct: YesPacket8: YesVoiceglo: YesVoicePulse: YesVonage: NoForward to alternative number when network unavailableAT&T CallVantage: YesBroadvox Direct: YesPacket8: NoVoiceglo: NoVoicePulse: YesVonage: Yes''Follow me'' (rings a succession of numbers)AT&T CallVantage: YesBroadvox Direct: YesPacket8: NoVoiceglo: NoVoicePulse: YesVonage: YesVoice mail access by WebAT&T CallVantage: YesBroadvox Direct: YesPacket8: NoVoiceglo: YesVoicePulse: NoVonage: YesAT&T CallVantage: www.callvantage.att.comBroadvox Direct: www.broadvoxdirect.com.Packet8: www.packet8.netVoiceglo: www.voiceglo.comVoicePulse: www.voicepulse.comVonage: www.vonage.com(1) Coming this year, company says(2) Click to dial from call log(3) Up to 10 people can be ''conferenced in''(4) All calls go to voice mail during specified hoursAll services offer voice mail, voice mail access by e-mail, caller ID, call forwarding, call waiting, multi-number ringing and an online call log/billing statement. (No company provides printed statements.)(Source by the companies)(pg. G7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET TELEPHONY (90%); MODEMS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BROADBAND (88%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (74%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (57%)

TICKER: VG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



185 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall Amid Concerns Over Inflation and Interest

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Investors lost a little more of their optimism about first-quarter earnings yesterday, sending stocks sliding on a disappointing profit report from Alcoa and a warning from Seagate Technology. 
 With many people away for the Passover and Easter holidays and no trading scheduled for Good Friday, volume was light -- 1.46 billion on the New York Stock Exchange -- exaggerating some of the price moves. Investors who remained seemed chilled by the latest corporate news, and concerns about inflation, rising interest rates and fighting in Iraq added to the day's weakness. 
 Despite the retreat on Alcoa's announcement, analysts were upbeat about the market's long-term prospects, particularly after the major indexes regained so much of the ground lost in last month's correction. Few attached great significance to the stock skid. 
 ''I think you're getting normal hesitation here before we attempt to attack the recovery highs,'' said Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Company in Greenwich, Conn. 
 ''We have a solid foundation, the economy is strong, profits are rising, interest rates are low,'' Mr. Goldman said. ''I'd look at this market as a big tanker ship that is just taking some time to turn. One news item is not going to curtail that.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 90.66 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,480.15. The Nasdaq composite index lost 9.66 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,050.24. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 7.63 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,140.53.
 ''What we need is a first-quarter earnings surprise to the upside, something that's not already priced in,'' said David Hegarty, head trader at Commerzbank Securities. ''But in the meantime we're stuck in a range on the S.&P.''
 A downbeat profit outlook from Nokia pressured prices for a second session, doing little to help investors regain their confidence about first-quarter results. Still, companies within the S.&P. 500 are expected to report 17 percent earnings growth on average, according to Thomson Financial. Some anticipate an average rise of up to 20 percent.
 Another potential factor in the decline may be that investors are starting to consider the implications of last Friday's strong employment reading, and the prospect of rising interest rates. Markets do not absorb such changes with ''computer speed,'' said Tracy G. Herrick, chief investment strategist at Jefferies & Company.
 ''I think investors still feel very good about earnings growth, that hasn't changed,'' Mr. Herrick said. ''But that doesn't mean so much anymore because the present value of those earnings would be discounted in a rising rate environment.''
 Alcoa fell $1.85, or 5.1 percent, to $34.65, after it failed to meet Wall Street expectations with results released after the market closed Tuesday. The first Dow component to report earnings, Alcoa's profits doubled in the first quarter, but missed analysts' estimate by a penny a share.
 Seagate shed 61 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $14.98, after sharply cutting its quarterly earnings estimate on weakening demand. The news forced several brokerage firms to lower their ratings on the hard disk drive maker.
 Nokia lost 29 cents, to $16.92, after investors filed a class-action suit Tuesday accusing the company of securities fraud related to its first-quarter forecast. Nokia dropped 19 percent Tuesday after issuing a gloomy outlook.
 Taser International surged $5.79, or 6.3 percent, to $98.04, as investors shrugged off a recent report from CBS News that suggested its stun guns, used by police to disarm suspects, had been linked to a number of deaths. Executives with the company, which is planning a stock split later this month, say the device is not dangerous.
 In the bond market, Treasury prices fell yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note fell 1/32, to a price of 98 24/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.16 percent from 4.15 percent on Tuesday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 3/32, to 105 13/32. The bond's yield jumped to 5.01 percent from 5.00 percent on Tuesday.
 The results of the 10-year inflation notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 102.189
High Yield: 1.809
Low Yield: 1.490
Median Yield: 1.709
Accepted at low price: 31%
Total applied for: $16,002,538
Accepted: $9,000,018
Noncompetitive: $165,558
Interest set at: 2%

The 10-year inflation notes mature Jan. 15, 2014.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PASSOVER (72%); EASTER SEASON (72%) 

COMPANY: SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC (91%); ALCOA INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); WEEDEN & CO LP (55%); COMMERZBANK AG (53%)

TICKER: STX (NASDAQ) (91%); AAI (ASX) (84%); AA (NYSE) (84%); CZB (LSE) (53%); CBK (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (84%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) IRAQ (72%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



186 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Uzbeks' Anger at Rulers Boils Over

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: TASHKENT, Uzbekistan, April 5 

 BODY:
After 10 minutes, the police officers drove off, having decided that it was not forbidden after all to photograph a propaganda poster that said: ''The government expresses the will of the people.''
 But that did not satisfy a woman at a bus stop nearby. ''Why are you taking ridiculous pictures like that?'' she asked. ''Why aren't you taking pictures of all the things that are wrong?'' 
 The terrorist attacks of the past week told the real story, she said. ''These were poor people, desperate people, driven to act.'' she said.
 Both the government and foreign analysts say the suicide bombings and shootings, which that killed 42 people here in this strategic Central Asian nation, were the work of Islamic militants, probably with ties to international terror groups.
 Foreign Minister Sadyk Safayev called them part of ''the global activities of terrorism'' that seeks to create chaos and instability.
 But in interviews here in the capital and in the surrounding countryside over the past few days, questions about the attacks set off furious outbursts about ruinous economic conditions and government repression.
 ''Everyone hates him,'' said a saleswoman, speaking of President Islam Karimov, who has led Uzbekistan, an important American ally on the border of Afghanistan, since it became independent from the Soviet Union in 1991. ''Everyone is afraid of him.''
 The vehemence and ubiquity of the complaints was striking. 
 The United States has been urging the government to revamp its closed economy and relax its repressive grip as a means of maintaining stability. 
 Hundreds of American troops have been stationed at a base at Khanabad since it became a staging point for the war in Afghanistan in 2001.
 Mr. Karimov, 66, secured a constitutional amendment two years ago extending his term until 2007. There are murmurings that he could leave office before then, but as in most other post-Soviet states, no provision has been made for a peaceful transfer of power.
 Asked about the widespread expressions of discontent, Foreign Minister Safayev declined to address the substance of the complaints. ''Of course there's a range of opinions,'' he said at a meeting with foreign reporters. ''If the people you interviewed think in this way, they have a right to think in this way. What can I say?''
 Often the complaints began even before any questions had been asked.
 ''Go talk to the people at the tile factory -- they haven't been paid in years,'' said a hotel employee before walking quickly away.
 From hair dresser to nurse to schoolteacher to farmer to ice cream seller, the grievances repeated themselves -- rising prices, unpaid wages, inadequate pensions and salaries, unemployment, corruption and a climate of fear.
 ''Things are terrible here, terrible,'' said a welder in a small town outside Tashkent, the capital. ''And all the time Karimov is telling us that everything is fine, fine, fine, fine. Sure, it's fine for him. But people here are starving. Children go from house to house begging for bread.''
 Many people who spoke like this were willing to give their names. Others declined, like the factory worker, who said, ''They'll come at night and take me away and I won't even know the reason.''
 Martha Brill Olcott, an expert on Central Asia at the Carnegie Endowment, said these forthright complaints could be signs of what she called a ''decaying regime, a dictatorship that has lost a lot of its punch.''
 ''People are not as scared of the regime as they were,'' she said in a telephone interview from Washington. ''People argue with the police now. That's been a big change over the past year. When they cordon off the streets so some high-ranking car can pass, people get out of their cars and begin yelling at the policemen.''
 Unlike some recent terror attacks elsewhere, the bombings in Uzbekistan did not seem indiscriminate in their choice of targets. They were aimed mostly at police officers -- unpopular symbols of government control who have become increasingly harsh since a terrorist attack here in 1999 killed at least 16 people.
 If the bombings last week were part of an international terror network, they were also neatly devised to tap into national resentments over government abuses.
 There has been a deluge of criticism recently from human rights groups about widespread arrests, torture and repression. The press here is muzzled, genuine political opposition is barred and independent civil society groups are severely restricted.
 Uzbekistan has also mostly failed to make the economic reforms called for by the United States and international lenders and has strangled trade by closing its borders for what the government says are security reasons.
 With 80 percent of the population living in poverty and with the economy steadily contracting, signs of social discontent have emerged. Last year factory workers staged strikes over unpaid wages and pensioners demonstrated in the streets demanding their payments.
 But without a free press or legal political opposition, many people have turned to underground Islamic groups, some of which preach violence.
 ''By destroying any normal lay political parties in the country, the only opposition groups which have structures and know how to behave underground are these fundamentalist parties,'' said Alain Deletroz, a vice president of the International Crisis Group, an international monitoring agency.
 Abdulkarim Abdullayev, the imam of a legal mosque in the old city at the center of Tashkent, acknowledged that economic problems had driven some young people to radicalism.
 ''They say on television that it's Muslim extremists,'' he said. ''But you've got to clarify that there are a lot of economic problems here, not enough work.''
 He suggested that a more democratic system could provide an outlet. ''Even though there are economic problems, they have to be dealt with the way they are in developed democracies in Europe,'' he said. ''In Europe people go into the streets with slogans and demand things.''
 That kind of thing would be unthinkable here, said a driver who gave his first name as Sasha.
 ''People speak quietly,'' he said. ''Even on a bus you can't talk. Who could be listening? You are afraid to say what you think.''
 He punched the buttons on his car radio. ''One, two, three, four, five,'' he said. ''Look, nothing but music. Everything here is happy and good.''
 Or it could be that there was more on the radio than he realized. The last station he reached was playing a calypso song -- by chance, perhaps -- with an interesting refrain.
 ''So you better get up, stand up, stand up for your rights,'' went the song. ''Stand up for your rights. Don't give up the fight.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A poster praising President Islam Karimov, left, says, ''The government expresses the will of the people.'' (Photo by Yola Monakhov for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (83%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); NURSES & NURSING (65%); BACK PAY (62%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) 

PERSON: Seth Mydans; Islam (Pres) Karimov

GEOGRAPHIC: TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (69%) UZBEKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Uzbekistan; Uzbekistan; Tashkent (Uzbekistan)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



187 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Push Is On to Give Legal Immigrants A Vote in the City

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
At first glance, it may seem a long shot in an era of orange alerts and stepped-up border patrols. But quietly and carefully, elected officials, labor unions and community groups are starting to push the notion of allowing legal immigrants who are not United States citizens to vote in New York City elections.
 Supporters say it is not an outlandish proposition. They point out that even without citizenship, legal immigrants pay taxes, send their children to public schools and serve in the military. Noncitizens in many states were allowed to vote in local, state and even Congressional elections as recently as the 1920's. Until New York City moved to abolish its school boards two years ago, all residents had the right to vote for and serve on them. And although a proposal to open city elections to immigrants was raised 10 years ago without success, some people believe that the time may now be right.
 In the last decade, five towns in Maryland have allowed noncitizens, even illegal immigrants, to vote in local elections. Campaigns for immigrant voting rights are under way in several cities, including Hartford; Cambridge, Mass.; and Washington, where Mayor Anthony Williams has said he supports giving legal immigrants the vote in District of Columbia elections. 
 Those initiatives may be taken more seriously in a campaign season when politicians in both major parties are making overtures to immigrants, as President Bush has with his proposal to grant temporary legal status to millions now living here illegally. 
 For the moment, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has declined to express an opinion on the subject, and Gifford Miller, the speaker of the City Council, said this week that he was still studying the legal issues. Several union locals have quietly indicated their support, though only one has formally joined the coalition that is promoting the idea.
 At a minimum, it is an intriguing prospect in a city with about a million legal immigrants of voting age who are not citizens -- equivalent to more than a fifth of the total number of current voters. Granting those people, most of them Hispanic or Asian, the right to vote could change the electoral calculus in a number of arenas, from the races for mayor and the five borough presidents to ballot questions on city borrowing and building projects. 
 The new voters would be more likely to elect minority candidates, political analysts say, and could force politicians to become more responsive to issues like deportation policy and immigrant access to health care. If voting rights were extended to the state level -- truly a long shot at this point -- the effects would be even greater, forcing redistricting that could affect the balance of power in Congress. Although all residents are counted when district lines are redrawn, normally only eligible voters are included when the new districts are challenged in court under the Voting Rights Act.
 ''This would be seismic in its impact,'' said Roberto Ramirez, a political consultant and lawyer who has served as a state assemblyman and chairman of the Bronx Democratic Party. ''Both parties would have to develop a different mindset to address policy issues for those residents who have historically not been part of the political process.'' 
 Nationally, there are more than 10 million legal immigrants who are not citizens, according to estimates based on census figures. Some are waiting to become citizens, a process that often takes as long as 10 years with the current backlog of applications. Others are not eligible for citizenship because they are here on temporary visas, or have simply not applied.
 In New York City, the latest proposals are still being drafted by two council members, Bill Perkins and John C. Liu. Supporters all agree that whatever measure surfaces, it should extend the vote to legal immigrants who are eligible to become citizens. Some would prefer a broader law to include anyone who pays taxes, regardless of immigration status.
 There will certainly be opponents. Critics say that giving newcomers the right to vote would undermine the very idea of citizenship. 
 ''Extending voting rights to noncitizens eliminates the last distinction between people who have accepted permanent membership in the American people and those who have not,'' said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington group that favors greater restrictions on immigration. ''That distinction is important to maintain.''
 The political landscape affecting the proposal has changed in recent years. When the idea was first broached in New York and Washington in the early 1990's, some black community leaders opposed it, seeing immigrants as political and economic competitors. That is no longer true, at least in New York, where a number of black leaders and elected officials say they see the effort as an extension of the civil rights movement. Mr. Perkins, one of the councilmen drafting legislation, is African-American.
 A stumbling block was removed this year when lawyers for the City Council reviewed state election law and decided that the city could alter its voting statutes without the approval of the State Legislature, where noncitizen voting measures were introduced without success three times during the 1990's. Nothing in New York State's Constitution forbids voting by noncitizens.
 A dozen New York organizations have formally joined a coalition that is actively promoting the cause; they have organized community meetings and held a conference last month at City College in Manhattan. Half are immigrant-based groups like the Asian-American Legal Defense and Education Fund and New Immigrant Community Empowerment, and some others have links to organized labor. Immigrant sponsors have a clear self-interest: their politicians would presumably get new votes, and their communities would get more influence. 
 Seven or eight other organizations, including three union locals with strong immigrant membersips and some nonprofit political and legal groups like Common Cause, say they support the idea as well.
 The groups say their optimism is based in part on the Bloomberg administration's general receptiveness to immigrant concerns. 
 ''In the past two years New York has passed strong laws that protect immigrants and give them better access to government, and we are confident New Yorkers will support voting rights once they fully understand the issue,'' said Bryan Pu-Folkes, the executive director of New Immigrant Community Empowerment, based in Queens.
 Noncitizen voting is sometimes dismissed as a left-wing hobbyhorse that can succeed only in overwhelmingly Democratic places, like the towns in Maryland where such laws have passed.
 Still, it is not at all clear that the new voters would favor one party over the other, said John Mollenkopf, the director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York. In their last elections, Mr. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki each drew more than a third of the Hispanic vote in New York City, Mr. Mollenkopf estimated, a strong showing for Republican candidates. Asian voters are even more likely than Hispanic voters to lean Republican, he said.
 Whatever the political fallout, some opponents argue that noncitizen voting is bad policy and would remove an incentive to becoming a full United States citizen. The idea's proponents counter that getting the right to vote could help provide a political education for new immigrants and give them an appetite for voting in presidential elections, which is restricted to citizens by federal law.
 ''In many ways, this prepares people,'' said Gouri Sadhwani, the executive director of the New York Civic Participation Project, one of the groups pressing the issue. ''They start local, and then they become citizens and vote in national elections.''
 All of these arguments have long histories. From the founding of the nation until the early 20th century, immigrants had a civic voice that many citizens, including blacks and women, did not. At various times, they voted in 22 states and federal territories (though New York moved early, in 1804, to restrict voting to citizens).
 The practice known as ''alien suffrage'' was less common in the South than other parts of the country, largely because new immigrants tended to be hostile toward slavery. The first article in the Confederate Constitution banned noncitizen voting, said Jamin Raskin, a law professor at American University and a leader of the modern movement to give immigrants the vote.
 State legislatures began narrowing their suffrage laws in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, as huge waves of immigration from southern and eastern Europe led to greater suspicion about political radicalism among the newcomers. By 1928, voting at every level had been restricted to United States citizens.
 That remained true until 1992, when the town of Takoma Park, Md., passed a measure allowing noncitizens to vote in local elections. Since then, four other towns in Maryland have followed suit. Two communities in Massachusetts, Cambridge and Amherst, have passed similar measures, but have been blocked from implementing them by the absence of enabling state legislation.
 Giving immigrants the right to vote will not be an easy sell, even in New York. Some proponents say they will be content for the moment if they can force people to rethink a fundamental issue.
 ''Whether or not we pass this law in the next year, this is an idea whose time has come,'' said Bertha Lewis, the executive director of Acorn, an advocacy group for low-income families that is planning rallies to support the move. ''You cannot put this genie back in the bottle.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Inwood, Manhattan, a Republican State Committee office announces its name in Spanish. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); MAYORS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); REDISTRICTING (76%); DEPORTATION (72%); BALLOTS (72%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) Robert F Worth; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City; New York State; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



188 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Japan Showing Signs That Recovery May Last

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 7 

 BODY:
A string of upbeat economic indicators is powering a rally in Japanese stocks, making Tokyo one of the best-performing major markets this year. And this time, there are glints that the forces driving the upswing are here to stay.
 A fledgling recovery in domestic demand, some early signs of a more vibrant real estate market and healthier banks are erasing doubts about the fundamental strength of the economy. At the same time, the prospects for robust corporate earnings are good, as big manufacturers ride a wave of strong exports. 
 In a sign of the growing confidence in Japan's recovery, Moody's Investors Service raised its credit rating Wednesday on Japan's foreign currency government bonds to its highest grade.
 While the Dow Jones industrial average in the United States has risen just 1.1 percent so far this year, its Japanese counterpart, the Nikkei 225 stock average, has gained 12.6 percent. The gain comes after the Nikkei rose 23 percent last year. This week, Japan's benchmark index rose above the 12,000 for the first time in more than two and a half years. The Nikkei slipped 60.08 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 12,019.62 on Wednesday.
 As in the past, the rally has been driven in large part by a recovery in exports that has been lifting shares of electronics, machinery and auto companies.
 But the upturn has also been fed by growing confidence that the end may finally be in sight to the worst of the troubles that have plagued Japanese companies for a decade, including a moribund real estate market and a financial system buried in bad loans.
 ''Japan is becoming a normal economy again after a decade of deflationary distress,'' says Richard Jerram, an economist at ING in Tokyo.
 Real estate stocks, like Mitsubishi Estate and Mitsui Fudosan, have been among the biggest gainers so far this year on expectations that property prices may rebound after a long slide. A government report last month said that while nationwide real estate prices fell for the 13th straight year in 2003, there were modest recoveries in parts of Tokyo, like the upscale Omotesando shopping district.
 ''I don't think the current trend will continue,'' Takeshi Fukuzawa, chairman of the Mitsubishi Estate Company, said of the falling prices. ''There are regions where prices are already rising.''
 Since the Nikkei's plunge from its peak of 38,916 at the end of 1989, losing nearly half its value over the next year, the market has been in near continual decline. Investors in Japanese shares have witnessed just two sustained market rallies over the last 15 years. The first, in 1995, lasted for about a year, and the second, begun in late 1998, carried into early 2000. Both rallies were driven by export profits, and both fizzled when demand at home failed to materialize.
 Many investors expect the latest stock rally to have more staying power precisely because of some recovery in consumer demand. Japan's economy grew at a 6.4 percent annual clip in the final quarter of 2003, the fastest pace in more than a decade, driven in part by a 0.9 percent increase in private consumption from the previous quarter. In February, spending by Japanese households rose for the fourth consecutive month.
 And after a decade of mostly tough times, companies have trimmed payrolls and cut inefficient operations to levels where they can more easily achieve solid profits, said Toru Ohara, who manages a $3 billion Japanese stock fund as the chief investment officer for Franklin Templeton Investments Japan.
 ''Japanese corporations have changed and the stock market has changed,'' he said. ''After falling for 15 years, I think the market has only just begun to rise.''
 Mr. Ohara said that despite strong profit growth, shares of Toyota Motor and other top Japanese companies were held back in the past because of broader worries about Japan itself. He expected those shares to rise now that troubles in the financial system and real estate market seemed to be clearing.
 To be sure, some analysts say it is by no means sure that the strong recoveries in economic output and share prices will continue for long. One nagging concern is that even though companies are making more money, so far they are not paying their workers more. 
 ''The question is whether wage incomes will improve enough to drive a sustainable consumption recovery,'' said Robert A. Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Japan. ''I'm still skeptical.'' 
 Still, many analysts and investors say they do not expect the corporate earnings reports in the next weeks to dampen enthusiasm for stocks. Japanese companies are expected to report robust profit growth for the fiscal year ended March 31, thanks to both strong exports and improving sales at home. Toyota, Nissan Motor and other automakers are forecast to report record profits, after increasing their shares of the crucial North American market.
 Smaller companies, too, are expected to post healthy earnings. The watchmaker Seiko, for example, on Wednesday raised its profit estimate for the fiscal year ended March 31, citing strong sales in Europe and Asia. And analysts say that profits at retailers, hurt for years by falling prices, will grow as consumer spending picks up and deflation eases.
 ''Japan's economy is getting firmer, both in terms of fundamentals and in the performance of the corporate sector,'' Heizo Takenaka, the economic and financial services minister, told reporters this week.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Thursday about a rally in Japanese stock prices referred incorrectly to assets under management by Franklin Templeton Investments Japan, whose chief investment officer, Toru Ohara, commented on the rally. The $3 billion figure represented the total assets managed by the company, not just by Mr. Ohara.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Bullish in Japan''The Nikkei 225 index has closed above 12,000 for the first time in more than two years and is well ahead of the Dow Jones industrials index.Graph tracks Nikkei and Dow since January.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRENDS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); BONDS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Real Estate; Banks and Banking; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%); MITSUI FUDOSAN CO LTD (58%)

TICKER: 8802 (TSE) (85%); 8801 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (85%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (85%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (85%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (85%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (85%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (85%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (85%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (85%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



189 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Princeton Chief Urges Admissions Edge for Poorer Students

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Pressing to broaden the diversity of elite higher education, William G. Bowen, former president of Princeton, called on top colleges and universities yesterday to admit more low-income students by giving them preferences like those granted to minorities, recruited athletes and the children of alumni.
 Such affirmative action, he said, is necessary if the top colleges are to be ''engines of opportunity'' rather than ''bastions of privilege.''
 Dr. Bowen's 1998 book, ''The Shape of the River: Long-Term Consequences of Considering Race in College and University Admissions,'' written with Derek Bok, former president of Harvard, is credited with reshaping the debate on affirmative action. He developed his latest proposal after studying low-income students at 19 colleges and universities, and presented the findings yesterday at a lecture at the University of Virginia. 
 ''After race,'' Dr. Bowen said in an interview this week, ''there is no question that the most serious forms of disadvantage in America today are low income and low education.''
 To help offset the imbalance that favors the wealthy, he said, elite colleges should consider ''putting a thumb on the admissions scale, maybe even a thumb and a half,'' to admit more low-income students.
 Dr. Bowen's study, written with Martin A. Kurzweil, a research associate, found that the students from the bottom-income quartile of all American families accounted for only 11 percent of the enrollment at the 19 campuses studied, which included Ivy League colleges, small liberal arts colleges and public flagship universities.
 The institutions admitted 34 percent of lowest-income applicants and 43 percent of the highest-income group. That difference was largely due to differences in test scores and academic achievement, the study found. Acceptance rates were essentially the same for students with comparable test scores and high school records.
 Dr. Bowen, an economist who is now president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, said the ''thumb on the scale'' approach would be costly -- an expense of $5 million or $6 million a year for a private college the size of Harvard -- and would not correct the problem of low-income students' attending poor high schools.
 But bringing in more of such students who do qualify, he said, not only is a matter of simple equity, but also is critical if top colleges are to draw the best students and expose all students to a wider range of people.
 Dr. Bowen said the study had found that substituting income for race in affirmative action would sharply reduce racial diversity, contrary to what critics of affirmative action have suggested; he said both steps were necessary together. 
 He said giving low-income students the same admissions preference that children of alumni receive could raise their representation to about 17 percent from the current 11 percent.
 Michael S. McPherson, an expert in higher education finance who is president of the Spencer Foundation, in Chicago, said the Bowen proposal would add momentum to discussion of the issue. Dr. McPherson estimated that perhaps 8 or 10 campuses could afford to go as far as Dr. Bowen was suggesting, and said such a step could have great impact.
 ''If you want Harvard to look more like America,'' he said, ''changing admissions policies is going to have much more dramatic effect than changing financial aid.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); SPORTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (83%) Princeton University; University of Virginia

PERSON: Karen W Arenson; William G Bowen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



190 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 498 words

PERSON: Keith Cylar

HEADLINE: Keith Cylar, 45; Found Homes for AIDS Patients

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Keith Cylar, an entrepreneur among AIDS activists and co-founder of Housing Works, which helps homeless New Yorkers living with AIDS, was found dead in his apartment in the East Village on Monday. He was 45.
 The immediate cause of death was cardioarrhythmia, according to Housing Works, of which he was co-president and chief operating officer. Its announcement said that he had returned from an AIDS conference in Houston on Sunday and died in his sleep. He had had AIDS since 1989, and also had a serious heart ailment, cardiomyopathy. 
 Mr. Cylar came to the cause through the radical group Act Up and its housing committee. He formed Housing Works in Manhattan with three partners in 1990 and helped build it into one of the country's largest AIDS self-help efforts, with an annual operating budget approaching $30 million.
 Trained as a clinical social worker, he oversaw all client services and supplied his own brand of practical business acumen.
 Militant in its tactics, community-based in its reach and often the agency of last resort in the five boroughs of New York City, Housing Works has found shelter for 15,000 people, by its count. It offers social services like health and mental care and referrals. In January, it said more than 2,000 H.I.V.-positive people were being helped by its centers, which also offer job training and assistance in applying for other benefits.
 Its income comes from private donations but also from sources like fees for services covered by Medicaid and returns from its own nonprofit ventures. Millions are raised through its catering division, a used-book cafe in SoHo and four thrift shops whose offerings include donated designer clothing.
 Keith Cylar was born in Norfolk, Va. He was a 1982 psychology graduate of Boston University and received a master's degree in social work at Columbia in 1988, by which time he had lived with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, for several years.
 In the 1980's, he worked as a therapist and social worker at a number of places, among them Creedmoor Psychiatric Hospital, the Lower East Side Service Center and Montefiore Medical Center, where he was a case manager in 1989.
 In 1987, he joined the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power -- Act Up -- and helped found its housing committee, a forerunner of Housing Works. In his earlier activist days, he took part in noisy street demonstrations, and his advocacy at Housing Works also led to confrontations with public officials.
 More recently he and the organization became more involved in projects like research for the Rand Corporation on the cost-effectiveness of H.I.V. services. He was an investigator in a national venture with Beth Israel Medical Center to provide minority patients with better access to AIDS clinical trials.
 Mr. Cylar is survived by his partner, Charles King, a co-founder and his co-president at Housing Works; his mother, Anna E. Patton of Shaker Heights, Ohio; and his foster parents, Marva and Harry Langaster of Portsmouth, Va. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); RESTAURANTS (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); HEART DISEASE (75%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (73%); MEDICAID (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); CATERING SERVICES (64%); VIRUSES (61%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (60%) 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



191 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Voters in Los Angeles Suburb Say No to a Big Wal-Mart

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: INGLEWOOD, Calif., April 7 

 BODY:
Voters in Inglewood, a racially diverse working-class suburb of Los Angeles, have soundly rejected a ballot initiative to permit the building of a 60-acre Wal-Mart shopping complex exempt from virtually all state and local regulation.
 Its defeat at the polls on Tuesday may portend difficult battles ahead for Wal-Mart as it moves forward with plans to build 40 so-called supercenters in California, combining Wal-Mart's usual assortment of goods with large grocery departments on as much as 200,000 square feet of floor space. The Los Angeles City Council is preparing an ordinance that would in essence outlaw the building of such retail behemoths within the city limits, and several other California cities, including San Diego, are considering measures.
 The Inglewood vote against Wal-Mart, 60 percent to 40 percent, was a victory for a coalition of unions, churches and community groups who said the development would have driven local retailers out of business and gutted the city's legal, environmental and planning powers. 
 Wal-Mart spent more than $1 million to promote the initiative, which the company put on the ballot after local officials rejected the proposed development last year. The vote was closely watched around the nation as a test of Wal-Mart's ability to sway public opinion and influence political bodies as the company continues its move from rural and small-town America into its largest cities.
 Opponents cheered their victory, depicting it as a triumph of David over Goliath. Wal-Mart, with annual sales of more than $250 billion and more than 1.3 million employees, is the world's largest retailer. Inglewood is a city of about 113,000 people, roughly half black and half Latino. An estimated 10,000 households are headed by union members.
 ''I think that it means that Wal-Mart has to go through the front door and deal with cities and communities as equals,'' said Madeline Janis-Aparicio, leader of the Coalition for a Better Inglewood, a group formed to fight the Wal-Mart project. ''They can't trick cities and communities into giving away the store, getting everything they want without any oversight. They're going to have to do business differently if they want to do business in California.''
 The Rev. Altagracia Perez, rector of the Holy Faith Episcopal Church in Inglewood, said that while many of her parishioners did not oppose the building of a Wal-Mart store in their neighborhood, they objected to the way the company tried to circumvent local officials by taking the matter directly to the ballot.
 ''They voted no because they didn't want to give up their property, their rights and their processes,'' Ms. Perez said. 
 Bob McAdam, vice president of corporate affairs at Wal-Mart, said the company regretted the outcome of the vote but said it would not deter the company from pursuing its expansion plans in California and elsewhere. Mr. McAdam said that Inglewood's opposition to the development was largely inspired and financed by organized labor, which opposes the company's anti-union policies and relatively low wages. Inglewood's four city council members all opposed the Wal-Mart plan and were among the leaders of the drive to stop it. The Los Angeles affiliate of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. spent about $110,000 to defeat Wal-Mart at the polls.
 ''We are disappointed that a small group of Inglewood leaders together with representatives of outside special interests were able to convince a majority of Inglewood voters that they don't deserve the job opportunities and shopping choices that others in the L.A. area enjoy,'' Mr. McAdam said.
 ''Throughout the campaign we said this is just about one store in Inglewood,'' Mr. McAdam added. ''If we win, that's all it means. If we lose, it will have no implications beyond that. We're still going to meet our goal of building the stores we predicted we'd build.''
 He said the company had not decided whether it would return to Inglewood city officials with a revised plan for the 60-acre site near the Hollywood Park race track, or simply move on to its next project.
 Jerome E. Horton, a Democratic member of the California Assembly who represents Inglewood and adjoining areas, said that the vote was a referendum on the ability of a large corporation to win exemption from local zoning and planning laws.
 ''The question was whether the wealthiest company in the world could circumvent the law,'' Mr. Horton said at a small victory rally for the anti-Wal-Mart forces at the Inglewood city hall on Wednesday morning. ''The answer was no.''
 He said local leaders were willing to consider a new proposal from Wal-Mart to put a store in Inglewood. ''We're prepared to negotiate, we're prepared to work with you,'' Mr. Horton said. ''But you have to comply with the laws of California.''
 Mr. Horton is sponsoring legislation that would prevent companies from seeking to bypass state environmental review by sponsoring a ballot initiative, as Wal-Mart did in Inglewood.
 Having won in Inglewood, Los Angeles labor leaders are preparing for a broader contest with Wal-Mart across Southern California. Miguel Contreras, secretary treasurer of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that he expected Wal-Mart to oppose the Los Angeles ordinance banning so-called big box stores and to spend freely to win the right to put stores in the city and other urban centers. Unions from across the country will band together to oppose the Wal-Mart expansion strategy, he said.
 ''It will become the battle royal for all of organized labor in the United States,'' Mr. Contreras said. ''It will be where labor makes its stand.''
 But even all of organized labor's muscle and money may not be enough to stop the Wal-Mart juggernaut, said Kenneth E. Stone, emeritus professor of economics at Iowa State University, who has written frequently on the Wal-Mart phenomenon. He said the victory celebration of Wal-Mart opponents in Inglewood was likely to be short-lived.
 ''They're not about to quit,'' Professor Stone said of Wal-Mart executives. ''They may move into a neighboring area and make Inglewood merchants and city officials sorry they turned them away. That's happened elsewhere.''
 He added that Wal-Mart has shown time and again that it does not back down in the face of local roadblocks or union opposition.
 ''This is the biggest company in the world, he said, ''and they desperately want to be in urban centers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: And in the end, Inglewood disagreed, rejecting the ballot measure that would have allowed Wal-Mart to build a giant shopping complex there. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (79%); ORDINANCES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); CITIES (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

PERSON: John M Broder; Bob McAdam

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) California; Inglewood (Calif); Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



192 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: New Zealand Politics Roiled by Indigenous Rights, Marital Sanctity and Agnosticism

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: WELLINGTON, New Zealand, March 31 

 BODY:
With a transsexual and a Rastafarian with waist-length dreadlocks in Parliament and a political spectrum that offers an opportunity to vote for Animals First, the Aotearoa Legalize Cannabis Party and the Blokes Liberation Front, New Zealand politics can hardly be considered banal.
 But the roiling political storm of the moment has been whipped up by a bespectacled, balding, former banker who even his friends say is rather dull.
 A few months ago, Donald Brash, 63, who was a pacifist and leftist in his youth, became leader of the conservative National Party, which was mired in lethargy. With a mix of sex, religion and above all an attack on the government's favorable policies toward the indigeneous Maori, Mr. Brash has incited the passions normally reserved for rugby in this sports-mad nation. 
 The immediate spark was a speech he gave in late January to the Rotary Club in Orewa, a suburb of Auckland. The audience was expecting a talk about the economy from the former central bank governor. What they got instead was a speech about what Mr. Brash called the ''dangerous drift toward racial separatism.''
 The Maori, descendants of Polynesian voyagers, were on the land when the first Europeans arrived, and what followed was a familiar tale of a native population losing its land and culture.
 Over the last couple of decades, in an effort to address the past wrongs, New Zealand's courts and Parliament have extended rights and benefits to the Maori, who make up about 15 percent of the population. This week a Maori television network, supported by government money, began broadcasting, though only 10 percent of the Maori are fluent in their native tongue.
 It has gone too far, in Mr. Brash's view. ''There is a limit to how much any generation can apologize for the sins of its great-grandparents,'' he said in his Orewa speech.
 ''There can be no basis for special privileges for any race, no basis for any government funding based on race,'' he said, adding that he would abolish the seats in Parliament reserved for Maori.
 Dull in delivery, a barn-burner in substance, it was a stance against ''political correctness'' in the view of his supporters, racism in the view of critics. Whichever, the National Party catapulted in opinion polls, climbing 17 percentage points, while the governing Labor Party dropped 7.
 Mr. Brash began to form his views on race relations while he was in the United States working for the World Bank from 1966 to 1971, said Richard Long, his chief of staff and a former editor of the Dominion Post, the country's second-largest newspaper.
 ''He saw affirmative action as being damaging to blacks,'' Mr. Long said. ''It lowered esteem on both sides.''
 Mr. Brash appears to have tapped into pent up lingering resentment among the country's four million.
 ''He's hit the nail on the head,'' said Brian Chilcott, a retired insurance company executive in Paraparaumu, an hour north of Wellington. ''The Maori are demanding too many things. Labor is seen as having succumbed to their demands.''
 A couple of weeks after Mr. Brash's speech, a Maori threw mud at him during a celebration of the national holiday commemorating the Treaty of Waitangi. Under the agreement, signed in 1840 by British and Maori leaders, the Maori granted sovereignty to the British, while the British promised to respect Maori land rights and culture.
 In recent years Maori have successful invoked the treaty to gain tens of millions of dollars in compensation for land taken from them and to assert a wide-ranging right to seabeds and fisheries.
 Mr. Brash does not consider the treaty a ''living document'' and would basically relegate it to an important place in history.
 Mr. Brash's salvo did not go unanswered. The Labor prime minister, Helen Clark, used the pulpit at the Anglican cathedral in Christchurch, the country's third-largest city, to deliver a rebuke to ''the forces of division'' that had appeared ''in the wake of the now infamous Orewa speech.''
 ''Perceptions have been fostered by right-wing parties that some New Zealanders, namely Maori, are better off than others,'' Ms. Clark said. ''That's hard to sustain when one looks at the levels of unemployment, poor health, low educational attainment and poor housing in Maoridom.''
 Mr. Brash quickly rifled off a letter to the Anglican bishops, saying it was inappropriate for a church to be used as a political platform. And certainly, he added, not by an atheist who did not have a high regard for the institution of marriage.
 Ms. Clark shot back that she was not an atheist but an agnostic.
 As for her views on marriage, well, those are well known: she said many years ago that she had married, in 1981, a man she had been living with for five years only because the party had told her it was necessary if she was to have a political future.
 But her marriage has lasted more than 20 years, she said. Mr. Brash knew what was coming. A few days later, during a radio interview, he said that yes, he had had an affair, while both he and the woman were married. After both were divorced, they married each other, and today she is his wife.
 Under New Zealand's parliamentary system, Ms. Clark does not have to call an election until September of next year.
 ''A debate about the future of New Zealand has been launched,'' Ms. Clark said in her Christchurch speech. ''I say: bring it on.''
 It promises not to be dull. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RACE & RACISM (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); CANNABIS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); RELIGION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%) 

PERSON: Raymond Bonner; Donald Brash

GEOGRAPHIC: WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (79%) NEW ZEALAND (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) New Zealand; New Zealand

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



193 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

German Central Banker Taking Leave of Absence
Ernst Welteke, the embattled president of Germany's central bank, agreed to take a leave of absence, as state prosecutors investigate whether he broke any laws by allowing a commercial bank to pay for his four-night stay in a luxury hotel in Berlin two years ago.
 In a statement, the board of the central bank, the Bundesbank, said it had not found evidence of a misdeed grave enough to dismiss Mr. Welteke. But it asked him to step aside temporarily while prosecutors from Frankfurt determine if he did anything illegal. [Page C3.]

Fate of Oil Companies Questioned
Royal Dutch/Shell, which has already lowered its estimate of worldwide reserves by 20 percent, or 3.9 billion barrels, is facing broader questions about the future role of Western oil companies and their technology. [A1.]

A Ballot Barrier for Wal-Mart
Voters in Inglewood, Calif., rejected a ballot initiative to permit construction of a 60-acre Wal-Mart shopping complex, possibly portending difficult battles ahead for the retailing giant as it moves forward with plans to build 40 supercenters in California. [A20.]

Prosecutors Balk at Stewart Retrial
A campaign that Martha Stewart's lawyers have started to discredit one of the jurors in her case should not be grounds for a new trial or a hearing into the juror's background, prosecutors contend. They said that the juror, Chappell Hartridge, might not have known that he was required to disclose the arrest and that none of his other responses were false or misleading. [C3.]

Electronic Arts Head Steps Down
John Riccitiello, the president and chief operating officer of Electronic Arts, the maker of video games, has resigned from those posts but remains with the company. Lawrence F. Probst III, the chief executive, will assume Mr. Riccitiello's responsibilities while the company names a replacement. [C7.]

French Bank Fires Official
BNP Paribas, the French bank, said that it had fired Edward V. Canale, head of its asset workout unit in New York, after the Manhattan district attorney began investigating accusations of improper banking practices. [C7.]

I.B.M. Acquiring Indian Company
I.B.M. said that it would acquire Daksh eServices, the third-largest outsourcing company in India with call centers providing technical support and customer care services. Both I.B.M. and Daksh eServices declined to disclose the sale price, but industry experts placed the value of the acquisition at $160 million to $170 million. [C5.]

New Plan for Fannie and Freddie
The regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac proposed new corporate-governance standards that include separating the chief executive and chairman positions to ''reduce the potential for future corporate misconduct.'' [C4.]

Stocks Fall on Earnings Concerns
Investors lost a little more of their optimism about first-quarter earnings, sending stocks sliding. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 90.66 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,480.15. The Nasdaq composite index lost 9.66 points, 0.5 percent, to 2,050.24. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 7.63 points, 0.7 percent, to 1,140.53. [C9.]

The Unraveling of a Partnership
When Barry McGuire and Michael Michalowicz started a company eight years ago, they had no idea how tricky partnerships could be. They found out after the outsider they hired, took over the company. Small Business. [C6.]

Stock Options Still a Gamble
Companies will probably be required to count options grants to employees as an expense, but exactly how should they measure option values? Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,480.15 down 90.66Nasdaq composite -- 2,050.24 down 9.6610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.16% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2185 up 0.0092The dollar -- 105.24 yen down 0.45Graph tracks the daily closing price of IBM shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); MISCONDUCT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LAWYERS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); OUTSOURCING (64%); CALL CENTERS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (80%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (70%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (54%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (70%); RDSA (AMS) (70%); RDS.B (NYSE) (70%); RDS.A (NYSE) (70%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); EA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (80%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (70%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (64%); JOHN RICCITIELLO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



194 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Budget Panel Urges Mayor To Drop Plan For Rebate

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
A budget watchdog group urged Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday to drop his plan for a $400 property tax rebate for homeowners, and to use the $250 million in savings to reduce the city's rising debt.
 The Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed group that normally favors lessening the tax burden whenever possible, took the unaccustomed tack of insisting in a letter to the mayor that the city ''cannot now afford additional tax cuts.''
 ''The C.B.C. has long supported reducing New York's uncompetitive taxes to spur economic growth, and the large tax increases of last year made this need even greater,'' the commission wrote. ''Nonetheless, the proposed $250 million rebate to homeowners is a mistake.'' 
 The commission would appear to be swimming upstream in taking this stand, since this municipal budget season has been dominated by competing plans for rebates and tax reductions in the fiscal year that starts in July. Prompted by estimates of larger-than-expected revenues, the mayor and the City Council are vying to ease the sting of an 18.5 percent property tax increase that was adopted in 2002 to help close large budget deficits.
 The mayor's proposal would provide annual rebates of $400 to owners of houses, co-ops and condominiums. An alternative plan by Gifford Miller, the council speaker, would forgo rebates in favor of a 2 percent decrease in property taxes for everyone, including business owners.
 Charles Brecher, director of research for the budget commission, said the focus on reducing taxes for owners of residential property was misplaced because ''homeowners are the lowest-taxed group of people'' in the city. More emphasis should be placed on lowering business and personal income taxes, which, he said, would have more significant economic impact.
 In response to the commission's letter, Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, issued a statement saying that Mr. Bloomberg ''strongly believes that those who were hurt the most by the fiscal crisis should be the first to benefit from the city's improving finances.''
 In any event, said Mr. Brecher, now is not the time for a tax cut.
 ''To the extent that the mayor thinks he has some more money, he should use it pay off the money he borrowed when he came into office and had to close operating deficits,'' Mr. Brecher said. ''We think the first priority is to pay off the debt you took on in hard times.''
 The aftershocks of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack forced the city to borrow $2 billion to offset revenue losses from the destruction of the World Trade Center. Last December, the city comptroller reported that the city's debt burden totaled $31.5 billion, or $5,645 per resident, a 127 percent increase since 1990.
 Though it opposed the rebate, the commission expressed support for the mayor's stance against pay raises for municipal employees without offsetting increases in productivity. The commission also urged that the city redouble efforts to reform the employee pension system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



195 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18

U.S. Intensifies Efforts To Quell Iraqi Uprising
The violent Iraqi uprising against the United States-led occupation grew more pitched and spread to new parts of the country with American forces stepping up efforts to put down Sunni and Shiite combatants. The fighting was some of the most widespread since the fall of Saddam Hussein almost a year ago. A1

The Pentagon signaled that it would probably delay bringing home some 25,000 soldiers from the First Armored Division as scheduled, even as the new troops meant to replace them are arriving. A10

Kazakhstan will pull its troops out of Iraq when the tour of its roughly 30-strong contingent ends in May, the country's defense minister said. A9

9/11 Prisoner Freed
A German court released Mounir el-Motassadeq, the only man convicted in connection with the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, pending a new trial later this year. A18

Clashes in North Afghanistan
President Hamid Karzai is sending Afghan National Army troops from the capital to quell fighting in outlying regions for the second time in two weeks, this time in northern Afghanistan, government officials said. A16

Russian Convicted as Spy
A Moscow court sentenced Igor Sutyagin, 39, a Russian arms control expert, to 15 years at hard labor for spying for the United States in a case that rights groups said harked back to Soviet-era repression. A13

Sudan Violence Gains Attention
A conflict raging in Sudan came under heightened international scrutiny as President Bush called on the government there to rein in militias and the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, raised the alarm about reported atrocities. A18

Rain Forest Depletion in Brazil
Ranchers, farmers and loggers destroyed a chunk of the Amazon rain forest about the size of Massachusetts last year, the government said. A4

NATIONAL A20-26

Violence In Iraq Prompts Political Maneuvers in U.S.
The surge of violence in Iraq has created vast political complications, as President Bush struggles to address doubts about his foreign policy and Senator John Kerry seeks to challenge the conduct of a war he voted for. A1

Kerry Offers Economic Plan
Senator John Kerry, laying out a sweeping economic strategy to counter the nation's rising deficits, said that as president he would impose spending caps on part of the federal government and adopt rules similar to the ones that guided former President Bill Clinton in creating the most prosperous era in American history. A22

Voters Halt Wal-Mart Plan
Voters in Inglewood, Calif., rejected a ballot initiative to permit construction of a 60-acre Wal-Mart complex exempt from virtually all state and local regulation. A20

Suit Filed Against Tribunals
A lawyer for a detainee at the Guantanamo Naval Base in Cuba has filed the first lawsuit directly challenging the military tribunal system that has been set up to try his client. A25

Malpractice Legislation Stalled
Senate Republicans failed in a third effort to curb medical malpractice lawsuits. A24

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

ARTS E1-12

OBITUARIES A27

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Drug Aids Cholesterol
An experimental drug can sharply increase levels of H.D.L., the good cholesterol, potentially offering an entirely new way to prevent heart attacks, researchers have found. A26

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

City Officials Consider Giving Vote to Noncitizens
Elected officials, labor unions and community groups are starting to push the notion of allowing legal immigrants who are not United States citizens to vote in New York City elections. A1

Respite From Bronx Gunfire
The seven days from March 29 to April 4 constitute the first time that a week has gone by without a reported shooting in the Bronx since the New York Police Department first began using a computerized system to measure crime by precinct, Mayor Bloomberg said. During the same period 10 years ago, at least 30 shots were fired, killing 12 people. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-8

Knicks Clinch Playoff Berth
The Knicks beat the Chicago Bulls, 96-82, at the Garden, winning a spot in the playoffs when the Cleveland Cavaliers lost in Memphis. D1

CIRCUITS G1-8

EDUCATION

Halting Grade Inflation
Officials at Princeton are proposing to limit the number of A's that its professors award. B1

Mayor Defends School Decision
Mayor Bloomberg defended his administration's plans to hold back failing third graders, shifting the blame for failing students away from the children and toward their parents. B3

Diversity Push for Ivy League
William G. Bowen, the former president of Princeton, called on top colleges and universities to admit more low-income students by giving them special preferences like those granted to minorities, athletes and the children of alumni. A24

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Shell's Declining Oil Yields
The Royal Dutch/Shell Group's oil production in Oman has been declining for years, belying the company's optimistic reports and raising doubts about whether new technology can extend the life of huge but mature oil fields. A1

Guilty Pleas in Accounting Case
Three former executives at Computer Associates are set to plead guilty in federal district court in Brooklyn to charges related to the federal investigation of the company's accounting practices, people close to the investigation said. C1

Ford to Offer Hybrids by 2007
Ford's chief executive said the company would offer three hybrid vehicles by 2007 and redouble efforts to build more efficient vehicles. C1

Good Quarter for Yahoo
The Internet portal company announced stronger than expected first quarter financial results. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Friends missing in action; the (space for sale) Yankees; John Kerry, fiscal conservative.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E11
Crossword E6
Weather D10
Public Lives B2


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (77%); MILITARY COURTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SENTENCING (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); NAVIES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); HISTORY (69%); TERRORISM (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); RAIN FORESTS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (68%); BALLOTS (61%); REFERENDUMS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (51%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SUDAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (79%); CUBA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



196 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Battles in Iraq Bring Problems for Bush And Kerry as Well

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and CARL HULSE; David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 7 

 BODY:
The surge of violence in Iraq has created vast political complications for Democrats and Republicans, as President Bush struggled on Wednesday to address doubts about his foreign policy and Senator John Kerry sought to challenge the conduct of a war he voted for two years ago.
 The difficulties facing both men were evident throughout the day. As scenes of violence in Iraq flashed across television screens, Mr. Bush was mostly out of sight, on his ranch in Crawford, Tex., even as some of his conservative supporters began expressing concern that Mr. Bush's Iraq policy could diminish his re-election prospects. 
 Mr. Kerry was in Washington, pressing ahead with a long-planned major speech on the issue that he expected to be the centerpiece of the campaign, the economy. But, faced with repeated questions about his own views of the war in a series of interviews he had scheduled to promote his economic plan, Mr. Kerry diverted from his script to offer some of his strongest criticism yet of Mr. Bush's Iraq policy.
 That policy was also a concern of Americans around the country, with some saying their opinions had changed as a result of the recent violence. [Page A12.]
 In an interview on Wednesday with American Urban Radio Networks, Mr. Kerry described the president's Iraq policy as ''one of the greatest failures of diplomacy and failures of judgment that I have seen in all the time that I've been in public life.''
 Still, even as he attacked Mr. Bush, Mr. Kerry was notably vague in saying how he would handle the matter as president. His advisers said he had no plans to offer a policy speech about a war that aides to Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry alike said they now expected to provide a bloody backdrop for the campaign for months.
 ''Right now, what I would do differently is, I mean, look, I'm not the president, and I didn't create this mess so I don't want to acknowledge a mistake that I haven't made,'' Mr. Kerry said on Wednesday on CNN.
 Mr. Kerry ignored two questions shouted to him by reporters at a meeting he held with economic advisers, about whether he would ''take out'' Moktada al-Sadr, the radical Shiite clergyman, a pool report said.
 On Capitol Hill, Republicans Congressional leaders invoked the violence in Iraq and urged the party to unite behind a White House struggling with a foreign crisis. Their comments underlined the difficulty Mr. Kerry and Congressional Democrats -- especially those who supported Mr. Bush in the first place -- had in taking on the president. 
 ''It's incumbent upon all Americans to rally around the leadership of this country in times of great crisis in the world when we are the leader of the free world and not to incite the other side,'' said Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, even as he acknowledged that the administration ''underestimated just how difficult and complex the job in Iraq would be.''
 But in an unwelcome development for the White House, even some right-leaning commentators and political leaders appeared uncomfortable with Mr. Bush's Iraq policy. Bill O'Reilly, the Fox News commentator who had been one of the most vocal supporters of the war, warned that the situation in Iraq might cost Mr. Bush re-election if he did not deal with it promptly. Mr. O'Reilly compared the Iraqis to the South Vietnamese in their lack of support for the United States. 
 ''If these people won't help us, we need to get out in an orderly matter,'' Mr. O'Reilly said on his show Monday evening, repeating the sentiment again on Tuesday.
 Newt Gingrich, the Georgia Republican and former House speaker, also said he was concerned that Iraq could hurt the administration unless it made a forceful case to stay there. ''The administration has to win the argument that this is an unavoidable fight,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''This is painful and this is difficult, but we have no choice.'' 
 Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative columnist who ran a spirited challenge to Mr. Bush's father in the 1992 Republican primaries, renewed his criticism of Mr. Bush's war policy. Mr. Buchanan opposed the decision to go to war but toned down his criticism after the war began. 
 ''We have gotten ourselves bogged down in what is clearly a quagmire,'' Mr. Buchanan said in an interview. In a column published on Wednesday, he wrote, ''What Falluja and the Shiite attacks Sunday tell us is that failure is now an option.''
 The focus on Mr. Bush's Iraq policy came the day before his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, is to testify on Capitol Hill before a panel investigating whether the White House ignored warnings of the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. With Mr. Bush facing such an intense challenge to what aides have described as the pillar of his re-election appeal -- foreign policy -- Democratic Congressional leaders said Republicans were trying to mute opposition by suggesting that attacks on his Iraq policy were unpatriotic.
 ''This is a democracy, and people have every right to express themselves and to do all that they believe is within their ability to affect the debate,'' said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader. Mr. Daschle said he was deeply troubled by the ''character assassination that seems to come from this administration and its allies any time anybody takes an alternative point of view.''
 Mr. Kerry's remarks on the deterioration in Iraq reflect the extent to which he has yet to come up with any proposals to distinguish himself from Mr. Bush about what might be done there now. His national security adviser, Rand Beers, said Mr. Kerry would support an increase in troop strength along the lines that the Pentagon is now advocating.
 Mr. Kerry urged Mr. Bush to abandon his vow to transfer power to a provisional government on July 1, charging that Mr. Bush was acting more out of concern with the domestic election calendar than in an orderly transition of power in Iraq.
 ''I think the June 30 deadline is a fiction and they never should have set an arbitrary deadline, which almost clearly has been affected by the election schedule in the United States of America,'' he said in a National Public Radio broadcast. 
 One of Mr. Kerry's former rivals for the Democratic nomination, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who was an unwavering supporter of the war, called on Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry to ''reach common ground on the issue of sending more troops in Iraq.''
 Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, a strong opponent of the war, said in a floor speech, ''It is staggeringly clear that the administration has no effective plan to cope with the aftermath of the war and the functional collapse of Iraq.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RADIO FORMATS (56%) 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) Adam Nagourney; Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Moktada Al- Sadr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



197 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Expect the Unexpected

BYLINE: By Nassim Nicholas Taleb. 
Nassim Nicholas Taleb, the founder of a risk research and trading firm, is the author of ''Fooled by Randomness: The Hidden Role of Chance in Life and in the Markets.''

 BODY:
The 9/11 commission has drawn more attention for the testimony it has gathered than for the purpose it has set for itself. Today the commission will hear from Condoleezza Rice, national security adviser to President Bush, and her account of the administration's policies before Sept. 11 is likely to differ from that of Richard Clarke, the president's former counterterrorism chief, in most particulars except one: it will be disputed.
 There is more than politics at work here, although politics explains a lot. The commission itself, with its mandate, may have compromised its report before it is even delivered. That mandate is ''to provide a 'full and complete accounting' of the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 and recommendations as to how to prevent such attacks in the future.'' 
 It sounds uncontroversial, reasonable, even admirable, yet it contains at least three flaws that are common to most such inquiries into past events. To recognize those flaws, it is necessary to understand the concept of the ''black swan.''
 A black swan is an outlier, an event that lies beyond the realm of normal expectations. Most people expect all swans to be white because that's what their experience tells them; a black swan is by definition a surprise. Nevertheless, people tend to concoct explanations for them after the fact, which makes them appear more predictable, and less random, than they are. Our minds are designed to retain, for efficient storage, past information that fits into a compressed narrative. This distortion, called the hindsight bias, prevents us from adequately learning from the past.
 Black swans can have extreme effects: just a few explain almost everything, from the success of some ideas and religions to events in our personal lives. Moreover, their influence seems to have grown in the 20th century, while ordinary events -- the ones we study and discuss and learn about in history or from the news -- are becoming increasingly inconsequential.
 Consider: How would an understanding of the world on June 27, 1914, have helped anyone guess what was to happen next? The rise of Hitler, the demise of the Soviet bloc, the spread of Islamic fundamentalism, the Internet bubble: not only were these events unpredictable, but anyone who correctly forecast any of them would have been deemed a lunatic (indeed, some were). This accusation of lunacy would have also applied to a correct prediction of the events of 9/11 -- a black swan of the vicious variety.
 A vicious black swan has an additional elusive property: its very unexpectedness helps create the conditions for it to occur. Had a terrorist attack been a conceivable risk on Sept. 10, 2001, it would likely not have happened. Jet fighters would have been on alert to intercept hijacked planes, airplanes would have had locks on their cockpit doors, airports would have carefully checked all passenger luggage. None of that happened, of course, until after 9/11.
 Much of the research into humans' risk-avoidance machinery shows that it is antiquated and unfit for the modern world; it is made to counter repeatable attacks and learn from specifics. If someone narrowly escapes being eaten by a tiger in a certain cave, then he learns to avoid that cave. Yet vicious black swans by definition do not repeat themselves. We cannot learn from them easily.
 All of which brings us to the 9/11 commission. America will not have another chance to hold a first inquiry into 9/11. With its flawed mandate, however, the commission is in jeopardy of squandering this opportunity.
 The first flaw is the error of excessive and naive specificity. By focusing on the details of the past event, we may be diverting attention from the question of how to prevent future tragedies, which are still abstract in our mind. To defend ourselves against black swans, general knowledge is a crucial first step.
 The mandate is also a prime example of the phenomenon known as hindsight distortion. To paraphrase Kirkegaard, history runs forward but is seen backward. An investigation should avoid the mistake of overestimating cases of possible negligence, a chronic flaw of hindsight analyses. Unfortunately, the hearings show that the commission appears to be looking for precise and narrowly defined accountability.
 Yet infinite vigilance is not possible. Negligence in any specific case needs to be compared with the normal rate of negligence for all possible events at the time of the tragedy -- including those events that did not take place but could have. Before 9/11, the risk of terrorism was not as obvious as it seems today to a reasonable person in government (which is part of the reason 9/11 occurred). Therefore the government might have used its resources to protect against other risks -- with invisible but perhaps effective results.
 The third flaw is related. Our system of rewards is not adapted to black swans. We can set up rewards for activity that reduces the risk of certain measurable events, like cancer rates. But it is more difficult to reward the prevention (or even reduction) of a chain of bad events (war, for instance). Job-performance assessments in these matters are not just tricky, they may be biased in favor of measurable events. Sometimes, as any good manager knows, avoiding a certain outcome is an achievement.
 The greatest flaw in the commission's mandate, regrettably, mirrors one of the greatest flaws in modern society: it does not understand risk. The focus of the investigation should not be on how to avoid any specific black swan, for we don't know where the next one is coming from. The focus should be on what general lessons can be learned from them. And the most important lesson may be that we should reward people, not ridicule them, for thinking the impossible. After a black swan like 9/11, we must look ahead, not in the rear-view mirror.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); HIJACKING (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); RELIGION (68%); FUNDAMENTALISM (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (50%) 

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Nassim Nicholas Taleb

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



198 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: John Kerry, Fiscal Conservative

 BODY:
Yesterday at Georgetown University, Senator John Kerry delivered a forceful speech on the virtues of responsible budgeting. On top of his recent nuanced proposals on corporate taxes, Mr. Kerry's performance suggested he is starting to hit his stride in thinking and talking about the economy. 
 This presidential campaign is the latest chapter in the surprising metamorphosis of the country's two major parties when it comes to economic policy. The Democrats have become the balanced-budget advocates, appealing to the electorate much in the manner of old-fashioned Main Street Republicans.
 The Kerry speech was a call for a return to the Clinton administration's emphasis on cutting the deficit and public debt as a means of instilling confidence in the American economy, both at home and abroad. Mr. Kerry rightly warned that the Bush administration's deficits threaten to become a ''fiscal cancer that will erode any recovery and threaten the prospect of lasting prosperity in our nation.''
 It's no accident Mr. Kerry would evoke the Clinton years, as he has surrounded himself with such Clinton alumni as Roger Altman and Gene Sperling as his principal economic advisers. Such choices, so soothing to Wall Street, will disappoint the same liberal interests who were shocked in the early days of the Clinton administration when the president famously opted to please the bond markets by attacking the deficit instead of sticking to all of his campaign promises.
 Mr. Kerry yesterday signaled he would make the same choice when he said that any new spending would have to be offset with other spending cuts or new revenue. But the senator from Massachusetts will still need to fine-tune his math in the coming months. For all his promises about making the numbers balance, it's hard to imagine how he could combat the deficit, expand health care benefits, increase spending on education and grant middle-class Americans more tax breaks simply by rescinding the Bush tax cuts for those earning more than $200,000.
 Mr. Kerry also needs to change the way he engages the politically charged jobs issue. Some election-year silliness is to be expected, like the campaign's pledge to create 10 million new jobs -- broken down by state, in a manner that might make even an old Soviet central planner blush. 
 More worrisome are the protectionist outbursts against the overseas outsourcing of jobs. Neither Mr. Kerry nor his advisers can really believe that outsourcing, as opposed to the cyclical economic downturn and the impressive gains in productivity growth, is primarily responsible for the sluggish recovery in the job market. As Mr. Kerry is fond of saying, the numbers don't lie.
 But clearly some of Mr. Kerry's political advisers, on occasion sounding like Pat Buchanan or Ross Perot, believe that making people feel victimized is a winning proposition. High productivity is not as creepy a villain for audiences to cheer against as treasonous C.E.O.'s and scheming foreigners. The danger of such cheap protectionist rhetoric, of course, is that it can ultimately force bad policy choices on the nominee. The Bush administration's disastrous economic record presents such a target-rich environment, Democrats shouldn't be pursuing red herrings. 
 The most impressive aspect of the speech at Georgetown was that Mr. Kerry was presenting himself to his audience not so much as a primary-season hopeful but as someone who is preparing himself to possibly govern. That, after all, is what this seemingly endless campaign exercise is supposed to be about. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); OUTSOURCING (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); BONDS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); BOND MARKETS (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); OFFSHORING (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (93%) Georgetown University

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%) John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



199 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Says His Economic Plan Calls for Federal Spending Caps and Clinton-Era Rules

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; David E. Rosenbaum contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 7 

 BODY:
Laying out a sweeping economic strategy to counter the nation's rising deficits, Senator John Kerry said Wednesday that as president he would impose caps on government spending. He also said he would adopt rules that guided former President Bill Clinton in creating what Mr. Kerry called the most prosperous era in American history.
 Mr. Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee, said he would adopt a ''pay as you go'' method of spending, offsetting increases by making other cuts, closing loopholes or raising taxes, although he has said he would not raise taxes on the middle class. He also said he would hold spending to the rate of inflation for about 20 percent of the federal budget, exempting spending for the military, domestic security, education and mandatory programs like health care, Social Security and Medicare. 
 ''When I say a cap on spending, I mean it,'' he declared, describing his economic principles to an audience at Georgetown University.
 He said the scope of the deficit under President Bush made him realize he would have to scale back some proposals he made in the Democratic primary campaign. In addition, he said he would freeze the federal travel budget, reduce oil royalty exemptions for drilling on federal lands, cut 100,000 federal contractors and reduce electricity use by the government by 20 percent.
 Mr. Kerry, of Massachusetts, said such spending constraints would help achieve his goal of cutting the deficit in half in the first four years of his administration, even though he would also expand tax cuts for middle-class families. He said he would increase taxes on those who make more than $200,000 a year to the level they paid during the Clinton administration when, he said, ''we had the strongest economy we've had in the history of this country.''
 The Bush campaign and various Republicans dismissed the speech as empty political rhetoric. They said there was a huge discrepancy between the cost of his new proposals and his ability to pay for them. And they said he had tricked Democratic primary voters by promising programs that he was now rescinding.
 Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee, told reporters in a conference call that Mr. Kerry's plan would be more credible if he or his Capitol Hill colleagues had proposed legislation to enact it. He acknowledged that holding spending to the rate of inflation was a good idea but added, ''You can't promise one thing to your liberal constituencies and then say, 'Now I'm going to change my mind.' ''
 Mr. Kerry's speech was his second major economic address. The first, delivered last month in Detroit, outlined his plan to create 10 million jobs over four years and keep them in the United States. He would eliminate some tax breaks that encourage companies to move jobs overseas and use the savings to encourage companies to create jobs at home.
 Together, the two speeches -- and Mr. Kerry's long record of voting in favor of deficit-control packages -- place him in the mainstream of Democratic Party orthodoxy and align him with conservatives who say Mr. Bush has allowed the deficit to spin out of control.
 But more than before, Mr. Kerry explicitly pledged to return to the Clinton economic policies. When Mr. Clinton left the White House in 2001, the Congressional Budget Office was forecasting $5 trillion in cumulative surpluses over the next 10 years. The budget office now projects $4 trillion in deficits.
 Under budget rules that prevailed in the Clinton administration, any increase approved by Congress in spending on benefit programs like Social Security and Medicare and any tax cut had to be offset by equivalent spending reductions or tax increases. And increases in annual total spending on the rest of the government programs, everything from battleships to weather reports, were limited to the rate of inflation.
 The law imposing those rules lapsed after Mr. Bush took office and has not been restored. As a result, the three large tax cuts enacted in his administration and the Medicare prescription drug measure enacted last year did not have to be offset.
 Mr. Kerry is following the Clinton-era formula: raising taxes on the wealthy, spending more for health and education and restoring the spending ceilings and pay-as-you-go budget rules that along with the technology-driven economic surge helped turn the big deficits under Presidents Ronald Reagan and the first President Bush into surpluses.
 Mr. Kerry's support of a middle-class tax cut is also an echo of Mr. Clinton. Such a cut was a central feature of Mr. Clinton's economic platform when he first ran for president in 1992. But he abandoned the idea after he was elected, saying the country could not afford it.
 Roger Altman, who was Mr. Clinton's deputy treasury secretary and is now an economic adviser to Mr. Kerry, said the Kerry proposals closely tracked Mr. Clinton's.
 The deficit that Mr. Kerry would face is much larger than the deficit that Mr. Clinton faced, Mr. Altman said, ''so the task is bigger than we faced in 1993, but as far as the principles are concerned, they are essentially the same -- we're proposing to return to the approach that was so successful so recently.''
 The Bush campaign sought to link Mr. Kerry's proposals not to the booming Clinton era but to the failed programs of Jimmy Carter. In one critique, the campaign juxtaposed a picture of Mr. Carter with a picture of Mr. Kerry in the 1970's and said Mr. Kerry would return the nation to ''a 70's-era economy.''
 Donald L. Evans, the president's commerce secretary, said Wednesday in a speech about Mr. Kerry's proposals, ''When I hear Senator Kerry and the economic naysayers, the image that comes to mind is of President Carter sitting in the White House blaming the state of the economy on 'malaise.' ''
 No less an expert than the first President Bush said he saw similarities between the economic arguments that Mr. Clinton used against him in 1992 and those that Mr. Kerry is making today.
 ''I was out telling people things were getting better,'' former President Bush said at a business lunch on Tuesday in Dallas. But, he said, the Clinton campaign ''portrayed me as being out of touch.''
 He said he thought his son had a better argument to make than he had 12 years ago because the economy was turning around. But, he warned, ''in politics, you have to remember, it isn't what's actually happening -- it's the perception that's out there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry outlining his economic policy yesterday in a speech at Georgetown University. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MEDICARE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); FAMILY (73%); HISTORY (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); ROYALTIES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JIM NUSSLE (57%) Katharine Q Seelye; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; David E Rosenbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004



200 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: Green Thumbs on the Trigger

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
GARDENERS have had it with the deer. George Hughes, who lives outside Annapolis, Md., has watched bucks use their antlers to lift the cages off his tomatoes and sample the juicy Big Boys. They also mowed down 1,000 junipers he had planted at his tree farm in Easton, Md.
 He had been told deer don't eat junipers. ''Well, they don't like juniper, but if they get a bad enough winter, they'll eat anything,'' he said.
 So he rallied his fellow homeowners in Saefern, a community of 105 homes on 250 acres, to bring the hunters in. He found a group of Vietnam veterans who are ace bowhunters. They killed 15 deer in Saefern last hunting season. ''And they're going to do the same this year,'' Mr. Hughes said. 
 Wildlife biologists estimate that there are now 25 million to 30 million deer in this country, up from only 500,000 a century ago. And more and more suburban areas and small towns, desperate from the damage, are inviting sharpshooters to defeat marauding deer. The burgeoning number of deer on the East Coast and in the Midwest have stripped the woods bare of young oak seedlings, cedar, dogwood and most of the understory. And they have infiltrated botanical gardens, even those in urban settings. 
 Last month, the National Arboretum, whose 450 acres of plant collections sit in the heart of Washington, called in a half-dozen wildlife biologists from the United States Department of Agriculture to shoot the 20 deer eating their rare plants. ''The arboretum is like a gourmet salad bowl to them,'' said Dr. Thomas S. Elias, its executive director. ''We've lost a lot of research material by their browsing, or the bucks rubbing their antlers against young trees. We can spend 20 to 30 years developing a new cultivar that can be wiped out in one evening.''
 The deer population on the East Coast has reached such crisis proportions that the animals' appetite has begun exceeding the public's defense of doe-eyed innocents. 
 ''People have tried fencing, repellents, deerproof plants, and they're frustrated,'' said George Timko, a wildlife biologist for the Maryland Department of Natural Resources, which permits sharpshooters in some areas. ''The tolerance level has been outstripped by the deer themselves.'' Deer in Fox Chapel, a wealthy suburb north of Pittsburgh, destroyed the town's Trillium Trail. The citizens retaliated by inviting David Laux, the police chief, and another law officer to shoot deer in the winter -- except during bow season. The lawmen use high-powered rifles equipped with silencers, ''so the noise doesn't bother our residents,'' Chief Laux said. Their score, so far: 495 deer.
 In Philadelphia, in the last four years, sharpshooters have culled 1,200 deer from two parks -- Wissahickon in the west and Pennypack in the northeast. The meat is given to food banks.
 Hunting seasons have been extended, and states like Pennsylvania, Maryland and New Jersey have encouraged hunters to shoot does instead of bucks. But even sharpshooters do not usually enter densely packed neighborhoods to hunt deer. All those fertilized suburban lawns, luscious azaleas and kitchen gardens packed with sweet corn have bolstered deer populations. 
 And no deer deterrent is simultaneously foolproof, attractive and affordable. Like many gardeners, I refuse to spray smelly egg yolks and water on my azaleas to keep deer away. And I'm tired of putting cages over my tree peonies, whose tender fat buds are like appetizers for deer on their way to eat my tulips. An eight-foot deer fence is the best defense -- short of a gun. But I can't afford to spend tens of thousands of dollars to fence in four acres of Maryland countryside. I also don't like the look of wire crisscrossing the landscape, prison camp style.
 Members of my family still hunt on the farm and, because of heavy crop damage, we have been allowed to use licensed hunters to kill deer outside the hunting season. But we are members of a vanishing tribe, and the no-hunting signs are multiplying. 
 ''So many people in the suburbs were never taught to hunt,'' said Dr. Gary L. Alt, a wildlife biologist for the Pennsylvania Game Commission. ''We need to explain to them that hunters can bring back the things they value in the forest.''
 ''Pennsylvania has some of the most productive forests in the world, but we can't get them to regenerate,'' Dr. Alt added. The state has 1.5 million deer grazing its lands, a 50 percent increase from 15 years ago. In 1906 the state had so few white-tailed deer, it imported 1,200 of them from the Midwest.
 Across the country, deer cause 1.5 million traffic accidents, $1.1 billion in vehicle damage and 150 deaths a year, according to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, in Arlington, Va. The highest populations occur where guns are banned.
 ''Back in the early 1970's, Princeton banned the discharge of firearms, and deer-car collisions went up 600 percent,'' said Susan Martka, a wildlife biologist for New Jersey's Division of Fish and Wildlife. 
 So in January 2001, Princeton called in private sharpshooters from White Buffalo, based in Hamden, Conn., who have culled deer in Princeton for the last four years.
 Animal rights activists, like Nancy Bowman, the president of the Mercer County Deer Alliance, a coalition with 1,500 members, voiced their outrage and filed lawsuits.
 ''It's morally and ethically bankrupt,'' Ms. Bowman said this week. ''And it's not necessary.'' Ms. Bowman says that deer are not destroying the habitat. 
 In January, Ms. Bowman was arrested in Princeton Township for spraying deer repellent on a bait site set up by White Buffalo. The case is still pending in the township's municipal court.
 At the outset of the bait-and-shoot program, Dr. Martka said, ''A handful of people were outraged, but the mayor was overwhelmingly re-elected after she began this program.''
 Deer collisions with cars have been cut in half. And now the town is testing SpayVac, a birth control drug for does that is not yet approved by the Food and Drug Administration. But to give it, the deer must first be shot with a tranquilizer, then inoculated, then tagged with a radio collar. And once the females have been given the single-shot contraceptive, they must be marked ''not for human consumption.''
 DR. MARTKA noted that the process is not practical in the wild, but can help in suburban areas. Meanwhile, she said, eight more townships in New Jersey have applied for permits to hold managed hunts or hire sharpshooters to cull the herds.
 Irondequoit, N.Y., near Rochester, was one of the first towns in New York to use sharpshooters to kill deer, a decade ago. With hunting prohibited in a large county park inside city boundaries, the deer population had grown to 900.
 ''We had deer wandering the streets, eating evergreens and flowers in the front yard, having their babies in the backyard,'' said Police Chief Richard J. Boyan. ''Some action had to be taken.''
 County officials closed the park to visitors in January and February 1993 and put out corn, and police officers, who were stationed in tree stands, shot the deer at night. Such practices are normally against the law. 
 About six groups opposed the bait-and-shoot plan as inhumane, but the furor eventually settled down. ''As time went on, people accepted it,'' Chief Boyan said. 
 About three years ago, the town organized a bow hunt that killed 71 deer. ''That's our way of managing the deer herd right now,'' Chief Boyan said. ''It's much more economical than having to pay sharpshooters and police to seal the park off.'' 
 Now the nearby town of Mendon is asking for advice. ''It's not uncommon to wake up and have deer looking at you through the windows,'' said Moe Bickweat, Mendon's town supervisor. Deer have destroyed up to 40 percent of local cropland, he said, as well as suburban landscaping. 
 Mendon's town park has a visible browse line: below five feet, the evergreens and hardwoods are bare. With the help of state biologists, Mendon's town board is forming a deer management task force to consider options and report to the town in September.
 It's illegal to shoot a gun in most of Montgomery County, Md., a suburb northwest of Washington. And there, as in most states, bowhunters may not shoot within 150 yards of a house -- unless the owner grants permission. But the deer population in Montgomery County has reached 200 per square mile. By the mid-1990's, Brookside Gardens, the county's 30-acre botanical garden, was overrun with deer. A decision was made to drive them out of the garden and put up a 1.6-mile fence and automatic gates.
 To no avail. The deer simply waited for the electronic gates to open, and then followed cars back inside. Rob Gibbs, a wildlife ecologist for Montgomery County, noted that they also used a smaller entrance. ''If Mom and the kids were walking through the park, and one of the kids opened a pedestrian gate, they'd be run down by three deer looking for a way to get back in,'' he said.
 Sharpshooters were called in five years ago, and took out 20 deer. ''There was a huge uproar,'' Mr. Gibbs said. ''It was a small number of people, but pretty intense.''
 Animal rights groups say there are other ways to protect the gardens. ''We suggested relocating the deer and doing a contraception program,'' said Stephanie Boyles, a wildlife biologist for PETA, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. ''Killing the ones inside doesn't solve the problem, because more will just move in to take their place.''
 By lengthening the hunting season and encouraging more doe hunting, Maryland now kills about 100,000 deer a year, but that has only stabilized the deer population. Managed hunts reduce deer in the immediate vicinity, but the problem continues to grow as suburbs expand.
 Sharpshooters may be controlling the herd in Princeton, but there is still a need for deer fencing. ''The deer ate everything except my daffodils,'' said Owen Shteir, who lives next to John Witherspoon Woods, which the deer have stripped bare of young trees and ferns. Over the past 30 years, Mr. Shteir has fenced in his entire two-acre lot, and his bloodroot, orchids and other wildflowers have returned.
 ''It's a green oasis,'' he said. ''But without a fence, everything would be eaten up.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: RAGE AGAINST THE HERD -- There are 50 times as many deer as there were 100 years ago. John Michelotti, above, is part of a group of hunters that killed 100 deer in Greenwich, Conn. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Associated Press/Register-Star)(pg. F8)Drawing (Drawing by Michael Witte)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); GARDENING (90%); SPORT HUNTING (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); MAMMALS (89%); SHOOTINGS (88%); BIOLOGY (88%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ANIMALS (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ARCHERY (75%); SUBURBS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); VETERANS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%) Gardens and Gardening; Deer

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%)

PERSON: Anne Raver

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (91%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); MARYLAND USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

 
