

601 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Peru Suggests U.S. Rethink Eradication in Land Where Coca Is Still King

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UCHIZA, Peru, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Slipping his pistol into a desk drawer, Uchiza's Mayor smoothed his shirt and posed proudly by the city seal formally adopted here last month.
"These leaves represent our most important crop," the Mayor, Demetrio Diaz Guevara, said with civic pride, pointing to an embroidered sprig of coca leaves.
Indeed, as if jumping to life off the new municipal flag, coca is everywhere in this Amazon boomtown: soft and leafy in backyard gardens and on hillside plots, or crackly and brown on black plastic drying sheets. 
 At tax time, some peasants even trudge into City Hall bearing 100-pound sacks as tribute.
 
Eradication Effort's Failings
 This bumper crop is bad news for the United States, which is the major consumer of the end products of the jungle harvest: cocaine and crack.
During the 1980's, the United States Government spent millions of dollars seeking to eradicate coca-leaf cultivation here in Peru's Upper Huallaga Valley, source of the raw material for half of the world's cocaine.
A few miles from here, on the far bank of the muddy Huallaga River, stands the most visible evidence of the American effort, Santa Lucia base. From this heavily fortified base, helicopter-borne teams of American and Peruvian anti-drug agents destroyed in the last year about 150 coca-leaf processing laboratories and dozens of coca-bush nurseries.
The eradication campaign has slowed crop expansion to a 10 percent annual increase. Paradoxically, without the American effort, coca cultivation probably would have exploded, setting off a price collapse and bankruptcy for many coca farmers.
 
Drug Issue Becomes Marginal
 Today, many Peruvians and Americans are suggesting a reassessment of policies toward coca production.
President Alberto Fujimori, an agronomist who took office on July 28, has retired top police officers involved in eradication efforts and declined to accept $36 million in American military aid. The money was to be used in part to intercept the small planes that take off daily from Uchiza's dirt airstrip, carrying up to 1,500 pounds of coca paste for cocaine powder refineries in neighboring Colombia.
Advocating a gradual approach, the President proposed making alternative farm crops attractive by clearing away bureaucratic and infrastructure obstacles that peasants face here.
In Washington, the drug issue has become increasingly marginal. With hundreds of thousands of American soldiers massed for war in the Persian Gulf, drugs no longer seem to be nation's "gravest domestic threat" -- a phrase used by President Bush last year.
 
American Reporter Slain
 While Peruvians and Americans debate a new approach to the coca harvest, leaders of the new coca-growers union here complain that few policy makers make the 230-mile flight from Lima to this frontier town of 50,000 people, the largest in the Huallaga Valley.
The dearth of visitors stems largely from the region's reputation for danger.
Last year, a visiting American freelance reporter, Todd Smith, was kidnapped while he waited at Uchiza's airstrip for a plane out of here. Several days later, his mutilated body was found on Uchiza's main square, bearing a placard that said, "This is how Yankees die."
More recently, on Oct. 19, the Peruvian Army general in charge of troops in the valley was ambushed and severely wounded as he drove on a road near here.
 
Changing Town's Violent Ways
 Such incidents are variously attributed to drug traffickers or two Marxist guerrilla armies that seek to win growers' support in the valley.
Today, having just come from the wake of a former Mayor who was shot to death Wednesday night, Mr. Diaz said he was working to change Uchiza's violent ways. Carefully stepping around a sawed-off shotgun he keeps within reach of his swivel chair, Mr. Diaz warmly greeted a visitor to the town offices and handed out copies of Uchiza's first "Trade, Tourism and Services Guide."
Published last month, the full-color brochure reveals that Uchiza has one Roman Catholic church, five Evangelical Protestant churches, five pool halls, 20 air-taxi services and 28 bars. Advertisers include two of Mr. Diaz's businesses -- Uchiza's only television station and Porky's, a discotheque that regularly attracts some of the best salsa bands from Lima.
Turning on a overhead fan to move the humid tropical air through his office, the 34-year-old Mayor then pressed into a visitor's hand copies of the city's first newspaper, a monthly that started publication in September.
 
Dependence on Coca Harvest
 "Eradication is not the solution," the current edition's editorial said about the coca harvest.
"Violent eradication would leave peasants without an economic base to survive, increasing the chances that 200,000 peasants would join the subversive groups" it continued, echoing a widespread sentiment here.
Mr. Diaz, a native son who was overwhelmingly elected last November, estimated that 80 percent of Uchiza's economy revolved around the coca leaf. The coca growers, inhabitants of the tin-roof shacks that dot the deforested hills around here, are largely refugees from the left-wing terrorism that plagues the Peruvian Andes.
Peru's Government calculates that one million people of the nation's population of 22 million depend on coca harvests for their livelihood. Probably the nation's largest export, Peru's coca-leaf harvest annually sells for $1 billion to $1.5 billion.
Climbing behind the wheel of his car for a tour of the town, Mr. Diaz said that the major obstacle blocking a switch to legal crops is transportation.
He said the road to Lima was so bad that it takes 38 hours for a truck to travel the 270 miles to the capital on the Pacific Ocean.
Because of high transportation costs, bribes demanded by guerrillas and policemen, and export monopolies, coffee growers in the valley receive only 30 percent of their export price. In constrast, American farmers generally receive 90 percent of the price of products at the port, according to the Institute of Freedom and Democracy, a free-market research group that prepared Mr. Fujimori's anti-drug proposal.
"To send a load of wood to the coast is as expensive as sending the same wood from the coast to Rotterdam," said another member of the city tour, Rolando del Aguila Hidalgo, adviser for the newly created Institute for the Integrated Development of the Upper Huallaga.
 
Change 'If It's Profitable'
 On the city tour, Mr. Diaz took pains to point out the kind of American aid that locals appreciate: a steamroller, three dump trucks and a road grader, all provided by the United States Administration for International Development.
Working on clearing new city streets, the American-provided road building equipment is the kind of development aid that residents here say could eventually allow crop substitution.
"All our 1,400 members grow coca," Justo Silva Vallon, manager of the Upper Huallaga Agricultural Cooperative, said in an interview at the cooperative's newly inaugurated office building.
"The peasants want to change -- if it's profitable," he continued, referring to such alternative crops as coffee, cocoa and corn.
A more militant stance was taken by Mario Campo Roldon, a board member of a new group, the Defense Front Against Coca Eradication in the Upper Huallaga.
"We are tired of studies, speeches and promises," Mr. Campo said, his chest glistening with sweat in the Amazon heat. "We want to substitute, but we want concrete facts -- better roads, agricultural extension services."
Growers here said they were skeptical of Mr. Fujimori's drug proposal of Oct. 26, saying it was intended more to mollify American public opinion than to deliver services here. Indeed, the speech was written by officials in Lima who are keenly aware that six months from now, the United States Congress must certify that Peru is cooperating in the war on drugs in order for Peru to win a large portion of the $250 million in American aid proposed for Peru in 1991.
The minimal interest shown by Peru's army in stopping the drug trade was illustrated at the end of the day at the airport here, one of the busiest of 150 strips estimated to be used to ship coca paste north to Colombia.
Asked about the large number of late-model, long-haul airplanes parked in the grass by the dirt strip, the local army commander replied, "What's the point of arresting drug dealers if more are just going pop up to take their place?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demetrio Diaz Guevara, right, the mayor of Uchiza, Peru, visiting villagers as they worked with coca leaves spread out on the ground to dry. "These leaves represent our most important crop," he said; The city seal that appears on Uchiza's flag includes an embroidered sprig of coca leaves. (Photographs by James Brooke/The New York Times); map: Peru, indicating Uchiza (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PERU (95%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; PERU; UPPER HUALLAGA VALLEY (PERU)

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCA (PLANT); COCAINE; CRACK (COCAINE); FOREIGN AID COCAINE (92%); MAYORS (90%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); CITIES (78%); AGRONOMY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); DRUG POLICY (74%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (71%); GARDENING (71%); HELICOPTERS (66%); ARMED FORCES (62%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



602 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Press Use of Cheaper Drugs

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Health insurers, which used to pay for prescription drugs with little attention to price, are increasingly influencing Americans' choice of medicines. Trying to curb drug costs, the fastest-growing expense in many health plans, they are offering financial incentives to people who select a lower-price version of a medicine when a choice is available.
The intervention in a decision that used to involve only the doctor and the patient is a big change in the way Americans buy medicine and follows similar efforts by insurers to influence patients' choices of doctors and hospitals. But some physicians are concerned that pressure to reduce the cost of drugs could conflict with the patient's best interest. 
 Typical of the incentives being offered by insurers are those under one Blue Cross plan in California. Employees at the Ventura Entertainment Group, based in Los Angeles, pay $5 for each prescription if they get the Johnson & Johnson analgesic Tylenol 3 with codeine, which averages $17 wholesale for 100 pills. But the employees pay only $2 for generic acetaminophen with codeine, which costs $11.60 for the same number of pills without the Tylenol brand name. (The insurer pays the rest, plus a small markup for the druggist.)
 
Change in Payment Procedure
 As another incentive under the new method, the customer does not have to pay the entire price of the prescription up front. Historically, the customer has paid the entire bill and then sought to be reimbursed for most of it by the insurer. But under the new system, the pharmacy contacts the insurer by computer and is told what small share the customer must pay and what the insurer will pay.
Some health maintenance organizations use even stronger incentives to steer patients toward drugs they deem to be the best value for the money. Their physician and pharmacist advisers typically make lists of approved drugs, based on both medical and economic criteria, and people covered by these plans must pay the entire price of any drug not on the list.
"The pharmacy business is now being driven by what the payer will pay for and not by what the physician prescribes," said Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, director of the Pharmaceutical Economic Research Institute at Purdue University.
Although the Food and Drug Administration requires the generic versions to be "bio-equivalent" to the higher-priced original products, some physicians say that for some patients their effects may still be different. "If you substitute a generic, you may have a problem, which can be dangerous," said Dr. Lonnie R. Bristow, a member of the American Medical Association board of trustees. For example, he said, patients who take the anticonvulsive drug Dilantin for epilepsy sometimes cannot tolerate a change to a generic. "They could have a seizure while driving," he said.
 
Effect on Doctors
 To be sure, doctors still decide what is prescribed, and some physicians forbid such substitutions. But pharmacists and representatives of insurers often call doctors who do not cooperate and tell them that they are out of step with their peers. Insurers sometimes tell doctors of the medical merits of a lower-priced alternative and seek permission to change a prescription. To become a participating doctor in some health plans, the physician must agree to prescribe the less-expensive drug unless there are medical reasons not to.
By paying the pharmacy directly rather than reimbursing the patient, the insurer can better dictate the price of the drug. If the pharmacy refuses to lower its prices, as some have, some insurers simply remove the store or chain from the list of pharmacies with which they deal directly and for which they offer financial incentives to patients.
 
Limiting Profits on Drugs
 The new arrangements please many people. "All we pay is $5 per prescription for everything we need," said Christina Greer of Penns Grove, N.J., a longstanding customer at the West Main Pharmacy there. The rest of the price is paid directly to West Main by the Blue Cross plan that covers her husband, an electrician at a General Motors plant.
But the new programs are sharply limiting profits on drugs, which used to be pharmacies' best source of earnings. And even some pharmaceutical manufacturers are being forced to offer discounts on some patented drugs to get the business of certain insurers, like large health maintenance organizations.
Another force limiting profits for pharmaceutical companies is that under the 1991 budget law that President Bush signed this month, all drug makers will have to provide rebates to the states on the wholesale price of drugs used by low-income Medicaid patients.
Insurers and many employers that ultimately pay the bill say that drug spending has become their fastest-growing health cost. Drug prices have been rising almost twice as fast as general inflation, and the number of prescriptions has soared as patients are increasingly treated in doctors' offices and clinics instead of hospitals.
Americans spent $28.2 billion on prescription drugs last year at the nation's 55,000 pharmacies, almost triple the $9.7 billion in 1980, according to a study by Mr. Schondelmeyer and Joseph Thomas 3d published in Health Affairs, a quarterly journal.
Druggists say that some large health maintenance organizations and other insurers now refuse to deal with pharmacies that do not meet their demands for deep discounts or cooperate in promoting lower-priced drugs.
At least 14 million people belong to health maintenance organizations that offer rewards for choosing less-costly drugs. And Medicaid programs for the indigent, which have similar drug restrictions in many states, cover 25.2 million people.
Many other health plans are considering similar programs, said Richard D. Ekstrom, president of the Cost Containment Corporation, which assists companies like the Westinghouse Electric Corporation with employee drug programs.
 
Incentives in Blue Cross Plans
 Greg Amato, a pharmacist consultant in Chicago with the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, said that about one-third of the Blue Cross plans offer incentives to use generics.
Many health maintenance organizations pay the full cost only if a drug is on a list, or formulary, usually compiled by doctors and pharmacists who advise the organization. When there are medically similar products -- for example, among drugs to treat blood pressure or ulcers -- the lower-priced ones are favored.
Some large, self-insured employers are also considering establishing such lists, said John Middleton, president of Diversified Pharmaceutical Services, based in Minnetonka, Minn.
Direct-payment plans will probably cover at least 60 percent of all retail prescriptions within five years, Mr. Schondelmeyer said.
 
Concessions by Drug Makers
 As insurers have increased their control over drug choices through direct payments to pharmacies, drug makers have had to make concessions on prices and adopt their sales strategies. The manufacturers' salespeople made 30 million visits to physicians last year to try to persuade them to prescribe their products. But most drug makers have also added units that try to persuade health maintenance organizations and other cost-conscious health-care networks that even the most expensive drugs can be cost-effective.
"Ultimately you have to show that you have value," said Ernest Mario, chief executive of Glaxo Holdings P.L.C., which makes Zantac, an ulcer drug that had $2.7 billion in worldwide sales last year and costs the pharmacies at least 15 percent more than Tagamet, its nearest competitor.
Glaxo touts a product's effectiveness in shortening a patient's absence from work and preventing recurrences of an illness, Mr. Mario said.
 
INCENTIVES FOR LOWER--PRICED DRUGS

 
 
Trying to curb drug costs that are the fastest-growing expense in many health plans, some insurers offer financial inventives to people who choose a lower-cost medicine when a choice is available. Here's how one health plan does it.
 
1. An employee at General Motors' Delco unit in Kokomo, Ind., brings a doctor's prescription for an antibiotic called Keflex to Moore Drugstore in Kokomo.
 
2. Don Moore, the pharmacist, uses a computer to call Blue Cross, Delco's insurer, to determine what the customer's insurance covers.
 
3. The insurer's computer informs Mr. Moore that Delco employees have a lower-priced alternative: They can pay $3 for a 10-day supply of cephalexin, a generic antibiotic that costs Delco's Blue Cross plan $15.50. Employees who choose Keflex, a brand-name antibiotic that costs Delco $41.42, must pay the 25.92 additional cost plus $3, or $28.92.
 
4. If the doctor prescribes Keflex and writes "dispense as written," the employee pays only $3; the health plan pays the rest. Blue Cross will try to persuade the doctor to prescribe the lower-cost drug next time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7829 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); FIRST LOOK STUDIOS INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; HEALTH INSURANCE; PRICES PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); ANALGESICS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); PRESCRIPTION FORMULARIES (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); PHARMACISTS (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); EPILEPSY (76%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



603 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: What's Wrong With the Siege?

 BODY:
How badly has Iraq been hurt by near-total siege that the United Nations imposed in August? The only available information is anecdotal, and it suggests that Iraq has been hurt by a lack of vital spare parts. And yet President Bush is suddenly determined to build up U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia massively, in the implicit belief that the embargo isn't biting hard enough to evict Iraqi occupiers from Kuwait.
He still hasn't answered the obvious question: What's the rush? 
 In the first days of the gulf crisis, Administration officials cautioned that the embargo might need six months or a year to impel Saddam Hussein to leave Kuwait. By abruptly doubling the military stakes and seeking offensive capability, Mr. Bush guarantees that time now presses the besieging coalition rather than Iraq.
Does that mean that U.S. intelligence is persuaded that the embargo isn't working? Has satellite surveillance confirmed fears of substantial violation of U.N. sanctions across the borders of Jordan, Syria, Iran or Turkey? Are economic analysts compiling data on Iraq's known dependence on imported technology to keep factories running, workers employed and military equipment operable?
The questions are sensible and urgent, but even senators seeking answers find themselves groping in fog.
William Webster, director of Central Intelligence, came closest on Oct. 25 to a public response, in a question-and-answer session before a world affairs council. He reported that sanctions were having some effect on the economy, but no significant impact on the Iraqi military: Saddam Hussein has amply stockpiled spare parts and has added to his store by looting Kuwait.
At a closed White House briefing last week, one of the senators present asked if any detailed studies had been prepared on Iraq's vulnerability to the embargo. Secretary of State Baker seemed taken aback by the question.
Yet Western journalists visiting Baghdad relate that factories and power plants have been crippled by shortages, that elevators have stopped running, that tractors and trucks lie abandoned on roadsides. And reports from Saudi Arabia assert that Iraq is short of de-icing chemicals needed for high-altitude flights and of fuel additives essential for firing ballistic missiles.
No one expected the embargo to cause mass starvation. Indeed, the Security Council resolution provides an exception for humanitarian aid. But semi-industrialized Iraq is crucially reliant on imported technology and foreign expertise to sustain a largely urbanized population. Unless there is significant violation of the U.N. embargo, Iraq's civilians face prolonged hardship, joblessness, rationing and demoralizing isolation. The blockade has stopped Iraqi oil exports, sealed its seaports and curtailed air traffic.
Has the embargo sprung any significant leaks? Kuwaiti diplomats contend that smuggling, with or without the tacit approval of neighboring states, is providing a vital lifeline. Yet a U.N. monitoring committee has yet to receive a single formal charge of sanction-busting. That alone proves little. But neither is there known evidence, from satellites or on-the-ground informants, of much in the way of truck convoys.
The familiar argument against the embargo is that such sanctions never work, or, if they do, work too slowly. The historical record is mixed; sanctions have clearly contributed to liberalizing political change in South Africa. But in any case, the embargo is the weapon supported by every country in the coalition opposing Saddam Hussein. Iraq is more isolated and vulnerable than any previous target.
Yet the Administration now hastens to give up this sound, widely supported policy and replace it with a sudden escalation. What's the rush?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); KUWAIT (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EVICTION (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (74%); STARVATION (73%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (68%); SMUGGLING (67%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); URBANIZATION (60%); FUEL ADDITIVES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



604 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
California Tried Democracy, And Look What's Happened Now

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
HERE in the land of new beginnings, what might be called the end of politics has begun.
A new Governor waits in the wings, having been elected by the lowest turnout in California history. Members of the State Legislature return to work next month, having had their budgets, staffs and terms clipped by angry voters. And if representative democracy has approached paralysis in California, the voters have also spurned the alternative, direct democracy by voter initiative, at least for now. This month, in a spasm of exasperation, confusion and resentment against new taxes, the voters said 'no' to almost everything on their ballot; one of the few exceptions was the proposition putting sharp limits on the terms of their representatives and leaders in Sacramento. 
 If, as the cliche goes, California leads the nation in trends, few would want to follow now when it comes to government. Chronic optimism has changed to pessimism in this state of irrepressible prosperity, the Golden State, which has reached a population of 29.3 million and is expected to grow by more than half a million people a year if recent trends persist. And if they find smog, congestion and crime at the end of the California rainbow, it is not clear that political leadership can help.
Nor does it seem that anyone can break the gridlock into which circumstances have forced the state government. "I try to be an optimist, a reformer," said Walter A. Zelman, former executive director of California Common Cause. "But I think we are in for a very bleak political period."
On Election Day, the voters of California seemed to say to their lawmakers: We pay you to write our laws. Don't make us do it. At the same time they took much of the legislators' power away, by imposing lifetime term limits of six years in the Assembly and eight years in the Senate and cutting their budgets by about 40 percent. Already, many senior lawmakers are looking for other work or offices to run for.
Most political scientists agree that this has shifted the balance of power from the Democratic-controlled Legislature toward the Republican Governor-elect, Senator Pete Wilson.
All of this represents something of a reversal of a generation-long trend in California government. From a corrupt amateur Legislature that could be bought for the price of lunch from the famed lobbyist Artie Samish, who ultimately was convicted of tax evasion in 1953, the Legislature was turned into a full-time professional body in 1966 under the late Democratic Speaker of the Assembly, Jesse M. Unruh. That trend spread nationwide.
"But we have now entered into a phase of weakening of the Legislature, and the Governor's office may try to pick up the slack," said Prof. Bruce Cain of the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.
But Mr. Wilson faces no picnic. He is regarded as a moderate and expected to work much more closely with the Legislature in Sacramento than the fiscally conservative Republican incumbent, George Deukmejian, but he is not fully beloved among lawmakers of either party, who widely believe that it was his support for the term-limits measure, called Proposition 140, that put it over the top.
The day after his victory over Dianne Feinstein, the former Mayor of San Francisco, Mr. Wilson said he would "get along just fine" with the Legislature; in response, the President Pro Tempore of the Senate, David Roberti of Los Angeles, said, "We are going to be sitting across the table from this guy who helped bring in this 300-pound gorilla named Prop 140, and it's going to be hard to forget that in human terms." The view was no different in the office of the powerful Speaker of the Assembly, Willie L. Brown Jr. of San Francisco.
The first thing that Mr. Wilson and the Legislature will tangle over is the politically charged question of how to erase a shortfall in the state's $55 billion budget that is expected to reach $2 billion by the time Mr. Wilson takes office on Jan. 7. With tax revenues falling and demands for government services rising because of the weakening economy, it is now questionable whether Mr. Wilson can keep his campaign pledge not to raise income taxes and to respect the voters' resounding rejection of more taxes and spending. After that, he and the Legislature will face off on reapportioning Congressional districts in California, which is to gain seven seats in 1992. Amid this, hundreds of the Governor's political appointees will have to pass muster in Mr. Roberti's Senate.
"The potential for public policy gridlock has never been greater," observed Mr. Roberti's spokesman, Bob Forsyth.
Critics say the Legislature is gridlocked because it is excessively beholden to industry special interests for campaign funds, and the conviction of a State Senator and former Senator earlier this year on vote-selling charges in part of a widening Federal corruption investigation has done little to alter that view.
Instead, voters in recent years have turned to the initiative, that especially California tool of making law by dynamite that began in 1911 as part of Gov. Hiram Johnson's Progressive Era measures to clean up government. The process remained mostly dormant until the late 1970's, when it became a "de facto branch of government," in the words of Bill Bradley, editor of New West Notes, a California political newsletter. Over and over again, voters here made law and history -- with Proposition 13 in 1978, which capped property tax increases, with Proposition 65 in 1986, which forced the labeling or reformulation of products with hazardous ingredients, with Proposition 103 in 1988, which promised to roll back insurance rates. And over those years, voters in the 22 other states that permit voters to make law by ballot intiative joined this revolution.
But this year the revolution seemed to turn against the initiative process itself, which Prof. Eugene C. Lee of Berkeley calls "an idea whose time has passed." Paradoxically, this citizen tool of government has become just another tool of well financed interests that have seized on it to write law without the hindrance of legislative compromise. The growing accumulation of such initiative-passed laws has also tied the hands of the Governor and the Legislature because the ballot measures often award set budget allocations to programs that cannot be trimmed in the budget process.
On Nov. 6, the voters of California rejected all but 6 of the 28 statewide initiatives and bond measures on the ballot, including the environmental initiative known as Big Green, which was once thought a sure winner, higher taxes on alcholic beverages, and even bonds for child care centers, parks, water projects and prison construction. "The despair over the lack of efficacy of government institutions has now spread to the initiative process," said Mr. Bradley.
Among the few measures that passed were one that forbids use of gill nets for fishing that snare marine mammals and another that will exclude building improvements to strengthen against earthquakes from property tax assessments. Both are the California equivalent of apple pie.
 
No on Everything
 "Many people simply decided to vote no on everything, either in disgust or out of feeling that the Legislature ought to be handling this stuff," said Prof. Gordon Baker, a political scientist at the University of California's campus in Santa Barbara. "But it's ironic because the reason they are on the ballot is that the Legislature hasn't handled them."
Some said that this was just a passing voter mood, that people were voting their pocketbooks, and they note that much the same happened in other states, in Virginia, Washington, Oregon. New York State's big environmental bond proposal, which would have cost $800 million, also failed.
If the voters were resisting the price of the ballot initiatives rather than the idea of initiatives, this argument goes, the next California ballot will again be jammed with confusing proposals. "If there is a temporary learning, I have complete faith it will be forgotten," said Professor Cain.
A movement is growing to make it more difficult to govern by ballot measure, by raising the number of signatures required, requiring them to pass pre-election technical review and permitting the Legislature and Governor to amend or repeal them after a certain time. Anticipating this, the remnants of Howard Jarvis's and Paul Gann's anti-tax and spending crusades of a decade ago put together an initiative that would have changed the California constitution to require that any change in the initiative and referendum process be approved by the voters. But that measure failed, too, by 55 percent to 45 percent.
Meanwhile, California continues to grow, its lure for migrants, American and foreign -- drawn by its glamor, wealth, climate, opportunities -- hardly diminished by its problems. How long this persists may well depend on whether a new Governor and newly chastened legislators can resolve their differences and get on with the public's business.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (56%); GOLDEN STATE IRRIGATION SERVICES (56%); COMMON CAUSE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; LEGISLATURES POLITICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LOBBYING (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); TAX FRAUD (75%); TAX LAW (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT; WILSON, PETE (SEN) PETE BARTON WILSON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



605 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: TACTICAL POSITIONS;
Congress Asks What It Should Do In the Gulf, and How

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
CONGRESS, or at least enough of it to form the sort of critical mass that attracts media attention, reappeared briefly here last week and found itself engaged in a confusing, ad-hoc debate on American policy in the Persian Gulf.
The debate in the corridors might never have occurred had not Congress been away, listening to the voters, when President Bush ordered additional troops to the gulf. Had he moved the nation closer to war with Iraq? If so, some lawmakers, including leaders in Mr. Bush's own party, said that Congress ought to reconvene immediately to vote its acquiescence or disapproval. 
 But faced with a choice that stark, and mindful of a public increasingly nervous about the talk of war, Democratic congressional leaders concluded that support for Mr. Bush's initial gulf policy and official ambiguity on his more recent actions was the better course for now.
Part of the reason lies with the ambiguity of the Constitution, which divides responsibilities for warmaking between the President as Commander in Chief and the Congress as the sole authority for declaring war. In a modern world, where the enemy armada no longer arrives with three months' notice and where hostilities thousands of miles away require an immediate response, the congressional role has at best become a legal nicety.
Desperate to be heard in a military matter more serious than any since Vietnam, Congress has had difficulty deciding how that is best accomplished. Should it act as critic and face blame for undermining the President in an international crisis, or accept consultant status to the White House and share political responsibility for policies it is not a full partner in shaping?
In the end, Senate Democrats settled on hearings by the Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committees as a way to force the Administration to outline its goals and military plans more clearly.
"We have a Hobson's choice," said Senator Joseph R. Biden of Delaware, the second-ranking Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. "Either we ratify or reject a declaration of war once it is presented to us, or we attempt to affect the thinking of the Administration prior to its committing the nation to a course of action that leaves us only a third, unattractive option -- pulling the plug somewhere down the road and weakening our country."
But any effort to affect the Administration's thinking requires some consensus among members of Congress. Judging by the cacophony on Capitol Hill, it is hard to imagine what that might be.
 
A Plethora of Opinions
 "You have 535 opinions," said Representative Dante Fascell, the Florida Democrat who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Actually, you have 635 because you have to count the Senate twice. Each senator has two opinions."
For most lawmakers, the overriding concern was the President's decision to order at least another 150,000 American troops to join the 230,000 already dispatched to the gulf since Iraq invaded Kuwait. Some complained that Mr. Bush should have consulted Congress first. Others, like Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, warned that the new deployments had shifted the mission from a defensive to an offensive one that would lead inexorably to war unless Congress stepped in now. "It's my sense after being around here and seeing Panama, Grenada, Libya and Vietnam that members are very unwilling to do anything other than support the men and women under fire," he said. "Historically, we have winked at the Constitution and simply put our fingers to the wind."
Even Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who heads the Armed Services Committee and is a traditional Administration ally, worried that logistics had begun to drive policy. "The President has made a very good case for sending troops to defend Saudi Arabia and to enforce the United Nations economic embargo against Iraq," he said. "He has yet to make the case that liberating Kuwait is in our vital interest and worth American lives." Asked whether he thought Kuwait was in America's vital interest, Mr. Nunn replied: "The burden is on the President. I'll let him make the case before I respond."
At a White House meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Bush managed to quell some criticism by assuring Congressional leaders that he had made no decision to take offensive action against Iraq. The additional troops were necessary, he said, to make the threat of force credible to Mr. Hussein.
Mr. Fascell said the meeting was hardly conclusive. "I don't have the answer," he said. "You can't keep the troops there forever unless you are really willing and able to use them, and in the end it's going to be a political decision. In a technical sense, the economic sanctions are working just great, but I've never had any illusions that the embargo by itself would get Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait."
While the Administration and lawmakers in both parties have affirmed support for the sanctions, there are deep disagreements on how long they should be relied on. At the White House meeting, House Speaker Thomas S. Foley spoke for many Democrats in telling the President that perhaps a year and a half would be needed for the sanctions to work. An hour later, the House Republican leader, Bob Michel of Illinois, was telling reporters that such a time frame was "far beyond" what he considered appropriate.
Senator Bob Kasten of Wisconsin, the senior Republican on the Appropriations foreign operations subcommittee, explained the impatience: "The sanctions may be working perfectly and not matter. The question is what do you do with a dictator who doesn't care about the welfare of his people, doesn't care whether there is enough food or medicine?"
Apply more aggressive psychological pressure, said Senator Bill Bradley, a New Jersey Democrat, who argues that the sanctions have already begun to bite on Iraq's industrial base and that within six to nine months the effects on the military establishment should be visible as well. "We should be telling the Iraqis that the sanctions are working, and what's going to happen to them next month and the month after that," he said.
And if Mr. Hussein is still in Kuwait six or nine months out? "Then we have air power," he said. "We don't have to have a full-scale land war."
 
Looking to the Future
 Some lawmakers have tried to focus the debate on the longer term. "The important thing is to think ahead," said the House Majority Leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri. "If we precipitously use force to achieve our short-term objectives, if we kill a lot of people, where do we wind up in the Arab world over the long run?
"I want to spend some time talking to Arab experts," he added, "to try and figure out how the Arabs view this, to see if we can understand what Saddam Hussein is thinking."
Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, a senior Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, is also thinking long term, but with a different purpose. Convinced that there will be military action by the spring if Mr. Hussein has not left Kuwait voluntarily, he said the real issue is what happens afterward.
"I'm talking about a change of leadership in Iraq and a winding up of their chemical and nuclear weapons potential," he said. "That is the threat to the Middle East and to world peace, and it must be met, because if it is not met, it will grow."
A valid point, agreed Representative Henry Hyde of Illinois, the senior Republican on the House Intelligence Committee. "But to talk about it is implicitly to talk about war. Nobody believes Saddam Hussein is going to give up that capability simply because we ask him to."
Senator Daniel P. Moynihan rued the ad-hoc debate as a poor substitute for the formal one he said should have taken place. He blamed the Administration for not seeking a formal statement of support from Congress. And he blamed Congress.
"I think it was our responsibility," the New York Democrat said. "If they didn't, we should have. Maybe it was too much to ask with the gridlock of the budget and on the eve of the election."
Mr. Lugar echoed those sentiments. "Ultimately, people in public life have to take responsibility. If our democracy works so badly that we can't even risk having a debate because we'd make a hash of it, that would be a very severe indictment."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT; SAUDI ARABIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IRAQ WAR (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (66%); JOE BIDEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



606 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking Returns For Bush's Journeys?

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: PRAGUE

 BODY:
SOMETIMES, President Bush's cadence seems a bit off.
 In 1989, as change swept the Continent, the President declined to visit Eastern Europe. Now, as Mr. Bush finally visits the region, arriving in Prague on the first anniversary of Czechoslovakia's democratic revolution, Eastern Europe is no longer the center-ring attraction. 
 The world's attention is focused elsewhere: on the Persian Gulf, where Mr. Bush will make an appearance on Thanksgiving Day. And the optimism of this capital has faded as economic hardship replaced the headiness of revolution.
 None of that seemed to bother the Czechoslovak leaders or the residents of Prague, who gave Mr. Bush an enthusiastic reception. And it certainly did not bother Mr. Bush as he left behind the part of the Presidency he likes the least, domestic governance, and took up his favorite part, aerobic diplomacy.
 Over the next week, in five countries, Mr. Bush will meet with dozens of heads of state at a security conference in Paris. He will sign a landmark arms control treaty that reduces conventional armed forces in Europe for the first time since World War II. He is the first American President to visit Czechoslovakia and will be the first since Lyndon B. Johnson to visit front-line combat troops.
 The schedule, grueling even by Mr. Bush's Marco Polo standards, is only the beginning. Now that the domestic demands of campaign travel are gone, Mr. Bush plans at least one foreign trip a month through April, with Mexico on his schedule for next week and South America in December.
 Is all this activity worthwhile? The novelty of these international dashes certainly has worn off after nearly two years of frequent flying. The political value also may be diminishing -- public approval of Mr. Bush's handling of the Gulf crisis has been slipping in poll after poll. But the President and his aides still are convinced that the nonstop diplomatic caravan plays to Mr. Bush's strengths and gives respite to a President whose chief aides are admitting that they really have no domestic agenda.
 Here in Prague, the budget battles and the disappointing mid-term election results seemed distant indeed. Mr. Bush got a rousing ovation from a legislature that did not care whether he kept his no-taxes pledge; and as he stood in Wenceslas Square, virtually every office window sported his portrait.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush chatting with Alexander Dubcek yesterday in the Czechoslovak Federal Assembly. (Rick Wilking/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); 

COMPANY: MARCO POLO HOTEL (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); BUDGETS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); APPROVALS (63%); THANKSGIVING (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (52%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



607 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: The World;
To Serve Its New Politics, Poland Re-Invents the TV Ad

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG

DATELINE: WARSAW

 BODY:
NONE of the candidates speak in sound bites. Nobody has climbed atop a tank, and space-age graphics seem light years away. But as Poland prepares to hold its first free presidential elections since 1922, its voters are being electronically courted as never before.
The television advertising is an important aspect of this nation's halting steps toward developing a political style. For 45 years, virtually every political institution, from speechmaking to voting to advertising, was discredited by its service to a system in which political choice was sham. Poland's 10 million-strong opposition movement sprang up overnight in 1980 precisely because people had long since disengaged from that charade. 
 Now Poland's political leaders are gingerly trying to put new life into the country's political institutions, building credibility by finding new visual or rhetorical styles that do not evoke the Communist past. Nowhere has that effort been more evident than with the television advertising aired in preparation for the Nov. 25 presidential election. Each night the six candidates have several minutes of free time on state-run television to present their commercials. These have ranged from visually arresting cartoons to stultifyingly dull shots of politicians intently reading from prepared texts.
None of the candidates have tried an American-style attack video, and officials from several campaigns said the choice was deliberate.
"We all grew up in the Solidarity movement and it seemed to us that mudslinging would be a bad method," said Jacek Skalski, the movie director who directs television advertising for Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki. "This is what Communist propaganda was, denigrating others as bad candidates. Slandering opponents, that was their technique."
Mr. Skalski never produced a commercial before he was hired, on two days' notice, by the Mazowiecki camp, though he said he has looked at Western advertisements. The ideas and designs of the television spots here are based largely on instinct; the results of public opinion polls come in about a week after the commercials appear, too late to gauge what is working and what is not.
Unlike Czechoslovakia, where the elections earlier this year featured the work of several Western advertising agencies, the political ads here are being prepared by home-grown talents. Ryszard Grabowski, the head of the television campaign for Lech Walesa, the Solidarity chairman, worked on clandestine television programs during the martial law years in the early 1980's. For the last year, he has been a reporter for Polish television. "This is our first campaign," Mr. Grabowski said. "And none of us has any experience doing this."
In their speeches and essays in newspapers, some of Mr. Walesa's opponents have depicted the Solidarity chairman as a headstrong, unstable politician with dictatorial tendencies. Mr. Grabowski said that some voters believe this portrait, and that many of his early commercials were designed to reassure the public. They showed Mr. Walesa in a suit and tie, speaking calmly to the audience. Several of the spots show videotapes of Mr. Walesa being extravagantly praised by the same leading political figures who now call him a dangerous candidate.
Last week, however, Mr. Mazowiecki and Mr. Walesa both took daring risks.
Mr. Walesa aired a new commercial: a cartoon showing a thick black line drawn across the screen. It stretches but does not break until vigorously attacked by an ax. The spot is an allusion to two of the most widely quoted images in the Polish campaign. When Mr. Mazowiecki took office last year, he said he was drawing a "thick line," and he offered former Communists a fair chance to contribute their talents to the new Poland. Earlier this year, Mr. Walesa declared that Poland needs a president who can wield an ax and root out former Communists, a remark seized upon by his critics as evidence of the Solidarity chairman's dictatorial tendencies.
Meanwhile, Mr. Mazowiecki tried out a commercial last week that breaks the mold. It opens with visually arresting black-and-white scenes of a 1980 hunger march in Lodz, one of Poland's grimmest industrial cities. The spot then cuts to close-ups of rationing coupons and empty store shelves before closing with white block letters that read: "It can return. Do you want it? If not, vote Mazowiecki." The commercial touches on one of the central themes of the Mazowiecki campaign: that any deviation from the rigorous economic reform program under way will bring a return of scarcity.
Some people here saw the commercial as scare tactics, and said its tone was reminiscent of the Communist propaganda of the mid-1980's, which juxtaposed shots of empty stores with footage of Solidarity protesters. It is in sharp contrast to Mr. Walesa's commercials, which open with a shot of cheering crowds and a logo that reads "Tak" -- the Polish word for "yes."
None of the candidates seem completely at ease on television. Roman Bartoszcze, the Peasants Party candidate, read stiffly from a prepared text in his first appearance. Mr. Mazowiecki, in an early attempt to personalize his candidacy, was shown awkwardly playing badminton and walking in the park with two hulking security guards dogging his footsteps. Mr. Walesa, for his part, has refused to allow his television advisers to shoot videotape of his family for use in the election.
In an interview last week, Mr. Mazowiecki acknowledged the primacy of television in modern democracies but said his experiences with it have left him uneasy. "I feel comfortable as a spokesman for my ideas," said Mr. Mazowiecki, who spent most of his adult life as a journalist at a Catholic weekly. "As a spokesman for my own person, I feel unnatural."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacek Skalski (left), a movie director, preparing a television commercial for Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki in an editing room in Warsaw last week. (Witold Jaroslaw Szulecki for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); LIBEL & SLANDER (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); FILM DIRECTORS (64%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



608 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Recovering Marcos Assets Proves Trying For Aquino

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
NEARLY five years after former Philippine President Ferdinand E. Marcos fled the country carrying with him crates of jewels, gold and pesos, the Philippine Government has recovered relatively little of what officials in Manila say was $5 billion to $10 billion in money and assets pillaged from the country he ruled for two decades.
Now negotiations between the Philippines and lawyers for Imelda Marcos to return some of the wealth have stirred deep unease among some Filipinos, who see any settlement as a retreat from the crusade that has been waged by Corazon C. Aquino since before she became president in 1986. 
 The negotiations seek an agreement to drop a civil suit in Los Angeles Federal court in return for Marcos funds in Hong Kong banks amounting to at least $200 million. The suit, which has frozen nearly all Marcos assets worldwide, is the lead case in a complex of court actions around the world that Mrs. Marcos inherited along with her husband's well-hidden fortune.
"Our lawyers," Mrs. Marcos said recently, "were going crazy. We had to be in Virginia, in Hawaii, in New York, in Pittsburgh, in Seattle, in New Jersey. At some time we had several dozens of cases not only worldwide but around the United States."
But the negotiations to settle the Los Angeles case, combined with the acquittal of Mrs. Marcos in July on Federal racketeering charges in New York, make it seem evident that as time goes by and the possibilities of finding and recovering the money fade, so does the Philippine Government's momentum.
"They are cutting their losses, and Imelda is going to get away with most of the money," said one Philippine lawyer. "For the Philippine Government to agree to drop the suit is a serious admission that it is unable to bring her to justice."
 
Problems at Home
 The slow pace of the recovery effort, and the disillusionment that has accompanied it, reflect a fading of hope and idealism in the Philippines as Mrs. Aquino's Government continues to struggle with corruption, inefficiency, human-rights abuses, economic stagnation, and violence from the far left and the far right.
Her administration came in with the hope for the quick recovery of vast wealth from Mr. Marcos and his friends, to be used, among other things, to pay for far-reaching land redistribution -- a program which itself never went very far beyond the planning stage.
"It's exactly the Aquino Government in microcosm," said Severina Rivera, who was legal director of Manila's international asset-recovery efforts until 1988. "Any Filipino you talk to will talk about lost opportunities. And I think the asset-recovery program is like that: lost opportunities."
In addition to the problems at home that have impeded the recovery attempts, Mrs. Marcos has armed herself with a phalanx of lawyers who have delayed proceedings, or successfully argued that she knew nothing about where the money came from. The Philippine Government was also hoping that a Federal racketeering conviction would aid in its civil suits.
In the meantime, the buildings and paintings Manila is seeking to recover have depreciated in value and, it seems likely, Mr. Marcos's associates have had the opportunity to further hide their assets. As with other hopes of 1986 that now appear exaggerated, Ms. Rivera said it now seems unlikely that the Marcos wealth was ever as vast as imagined, or that the Philippine Government will recover a significant portion of it.
And if the political winds shift dramatically when Mrs. Aquino's term is up in 1992, some Filipinos now suggest, the emphasis might also shift to an investigation of corruption during the Aquino years. It is not clear how aggressively a post-Aquino Government would continue the attempt to recover the Marcos wealth. Scandals involving the Presidential Commission on Good Government, the Philippine agency charged with recovering the Marcos wealth, has contributed to public cynicism.
"We had the best-situated effort ever of all the asset-recovery attempts by governments all around the world," Ms. Rivera said. "We had world sympathy, a very sophisticated knowledge of the U.S. courts and Swiss courts, concrete evidence of the thefts and the assets. And now it's just falling apart."
Even if the Los Angeles case proceeds, said Michael Doyen, one of the attorneys for the Philippine Government, the multimillion-dollar search for hidden funds could continue for years.
"The Marcoses were nothing if not experts at putting their money in some of the world's great havens for people with an interest in secreting their funds," he said. "It's all the greatest hits here of secret hideaways: the Cayman Islands, Lichtenstein, Switzerland."
So far, less than $1 billion of the Marcos wealth has been identified, of which more than $100 million is in the United States in the form of real estate, jewelry and art. In the Philippines the Government says it has identified about $200 million, of which half has been recovered.
In Switzerland, Philippine officials say about $400 million has been frozen in deposits in about 50 bank accounts. The full amount could be far greater. The Swiss Government has indicated that Manila has the right to the money if it can convict Mrs. Marcos in a Philippine criminal court. But Mrs. Aquino has barred Mrs. Marcos from returning to the Philippines, a stand that ultimately serves to block the recovery of those tantalizing hundreds of millions of dollars.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Imelda Marcos outside Federal Court in Pittsburgh in September after testifying in a case charging kickbacks in the awarding of a Philippine contract during her husband's presidency. (Barry Lavery/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BANKING IN CHINA (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); ACQUITTAL (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; AQUINO, CORAZON C (PRES); MARCOS, FERDINAND E IMELDA ROMUALDEZ MARCOS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



609 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: WOMAN IN THE NEWS: Joan B. Campbell;
'Seasoned Ecumenist' Takes Charge

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Nov. 15

 BODY:
Until she was 40 years old, the Rev. Joan Brown Campbell was a full-time mother, wife, housekeeper and community volunteer.
Just two days after her 59th birthday, Ms. Campbell was elected to the top ecumenical position in the nation, the general secretary of the National Council of Churches. 
 "Imagine what she would be doing if she had started at 22," her daughter, Jane Louise Campbell, said Wednesday night on the eve of her mother's election.
The elder Ms. Campbell was described by colleagues as a "seasoned ecumenist," a "motivator, enabler and reconciler" and a woman with a deep faith and open mind.
But to her daughter, the eldest of her three children (Ms. Campbell has two sons, Paul Jr. and James), the new general secretary was a towering role model.
"She gave us a sense of social responsibility and a sense of responsibility to the family and home," said the younger Ms. Campbell, the mother of two young children and a Representative in the Ohio Legislature.
 
Memories of the 1960's
 The daughter remembered when, in the 1960's, her family got bomb threats after they invited the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to preach in their church in the Cleveland suburb of Shaker Heights. "My mother's reaction was: 'Clean up under your beds. The police will be looking for bombs, and I don't want them to find any mess under there.' "
Ms. Campbell, currently the head of the American office of the World Council of Churches, will take the helm of the National Council in March. She will succeed James A. Hamilton, a United Methodist layman, who did not run for re-election.
Mrs. Campbell will be the second woman and the first female minister to serve in the post in the organization's 40-year history.
The National Council of Churches is the nation's largest ecumenical body, encompassing 32 Christian denominations with 42 million members. These include the so-called mainline churches, like the Methodists, Presbyterians and Episcopalians; the historically black churches, like the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and the Orthodox churches, including the Antiochian, Armenian, Coptic, Greek, Syrian and the Orthodox Church in America.
 
Policy and Charity
 While the denominations act independently, the council links them in activities from interfaith dialogue to overseas relief. The council also issues public-policy statements, like the one approved this week condemning the American military buildup in the Persian Gulf.
The council suffered a loss of influence and a decline in membership in the 1980's, when it was overshadowed on the national scene by the Roman Catholic bishops, who spoke out on nuclear arms and abortion, and the evangelical Protestant churches, who made their influence felt through organizations like the Moral Majority. It was also battered by internal divisions and strife that resulted from a huge reorganization.
In an interview, Ms. Cambell said she did not expect the council to return to the influence it exerted in 1958, when President Dwight D. Eisenhower laid the cornerstone for its headquarters at 475 Riverside Drive in Manhattan.
"I'm not nostalgic," she said. "I think we need to be as strong a voice as we can exercise in this period of history."
 
Searching for the Spiritual
 "Never during the 20 years I have worked within the ecumenical movement have I sensed a time when unity was more urgent," she added. "We are a nation on the brink of war, faced with increased racism and economic insecurity. We are a people searching for spiritual answers in the face of an uncertain future."
Ms. Campbell said she hopes to strengthen the council by emphasizing its variety of churches, and by reaching out and inspiring the young who she said are ready to be brought into the churches. "When people think of the council, they think of the mainline churches," she said. "We have to work hard in making our diversity known."
Joan Brown Campbell, who was born Nov. 13, 1931, in Youngstown, Ohio, has standing as a minister in both the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) and the American Baptist Churches (U.S.A.). She received a bachelor's degree in English and speech and a master's in education from the University of Michigan and studied urban ministry at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland before being ordained in 1980.
Ms. Campbell, who was divorced when her children were teen-agers, continues to have a cordial relationship with her former husband, Paul Campbell Sr., a lawyer. The two get together each year with their children and grandchildren for Thanksgiving dinners. She lives in Manhattan, said she enjoys Broadway plays and walking along Riverside Drive. She will use almost any business trip as an excuse to stop in Cleveland to visit her four grandchildren, ages 4, 3, 2 and 1.
 
Ms. Inside, Ms. Outside
 Ms. Campbell said that she relished and never regretted the years she devoted to raising her family. "It taught me patience, perseverance and risk-taking," she said.
Margaret Sonnenday of St. Louis, who headed the search committee that chose the new general secretary, said Ms. Campbell had the advantage of being both an insider in the council (she worked there before going to the World Council in 1985) and being an outsider during its difficult years in the late 1980's.
If she had heard any criticism of the candidate, Ms. Sonnenday said, it was that "in her enthusiasm" Ms. Campbell would forge ahead with projects before building a consensus.
Ms. Campbell said she was aware of the criticism. In her new job, she said, she would "keep testing" and keep looking behind her to make sure "the people are with me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Joan Brown Campbell, general secretary of the National Council of Churches. (Don Ryan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WOMAN IN THE NEWS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL COUNCIL ON COMPENSATION INSURANCE INC (66%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST IN THE USA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF CHURCHES NATIONAL COUNCIL OF CHURCHES; 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); RELIGION (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CHILDREN (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); 

PERSON: CAMPBELL, JOAN B (REV); CAMPBELL, JOAN B (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



610 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2764 words

HEADLINE: The Partners' Revolt at Peat Marwick

BYLINE: By Alison Leigh Cowan

 BODY:
IN THE END, it was the suit that gave him away, a hand-tailored symbol of how far Larry D. Horner had fallen.
 Mr. Horner -- who had led the world's largest accounting firm through six years of tumult, growth and change -- was moving out of his corner office at KPMG Peat Marwick a few weeks ago, vacating it for his successor, when a meeting of retired partners took place in Florida. One morning at the podium, he paraphrased Longfellow, expressing the wistful hope that his years as Peat's chairman would enable him to "leave behind us footprints on the sands of time." 
But the following evening, in a room blackened with tuxedos, it was clear that the footprints were already fading. "No one told Larry," said Walter O'Connor, a former Peat board member, that the dress code had been changed to black tie. He was one of the only dignitaries without a cummerbund.
 "He looked really disgruntled and unhappy," said another retired board member, who insisted on anonymity. "No one was paying any attention to him. It was a jolt to his ego."
 It was also a sharp reminder of why he was no longer in his job. A partners' revolt, arousing passions rarely seen in the staid world of accountancy, had forced him out even though he may have been the best man to lead Peat through the treacherous times it now faces. The players could have been lifted straight out of a board game -- or Greek tragedy: a charismatic, but stubborn, protagonist too proud to bend to the wishes of those who elected him; a group of young, impatient partners who believe they should be making more than their already-six-figure incomes; an agitator preoccupied with a personal grudge, and a loyal, but ambitious, underling maneuvering to win center stage if his mentor stumbles.
 By the time the game played itself out, Larry Horner's departure had ramifications well beyond the Fifth Avenue office overlooking Central Park that was being readied for Jon C. Madonna, the new chairman. Peat, after all, has thousands of clients, including some of America's bluest-chip companies, and its policies and actions, shaped by the chairman, spill into offices around the globe.
 At home, the departure left Peat with a relatively inexperienced chairman with little overseas background at a time when the firm is bumping along in a soft economy and the international business is more important than ever. And it brought into sharp relief the thorny issue of partnership, where, in Peat's case, 1,850 people were told they owned the firm, but many ended up doubting it.
 Private partnerships, where compensation is determined by one's peers, are never tranquil places to work. And Peat Marwick has had more than its share of unrest. In October 1979, for example, 1,053 partners of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., as the firm was then known, gathered at a posh Florida resort for a meeting that should have been just a formality. But when Walter E. Hanson, then chairman, asked them to accept his hand-picked successor, a few partners brought on a groundswell and an insurgent candidate breezed into office. That, in company lore, was the "Battle of Boca Raton."
 
A Populist View
 Now, more than a decade later, those populist stirrings still run deep at KPMG Peat Marwick, as the American firm has been known since 1987, when it merged with KMG Main Hurdman, an Anglo-Dutch firm. The merger created the world's largest accounting firm, a loose collection of powerful national entities with the American operation contributing a whopping $1.8 billion to the parent's total $5 billion in revenues in fiscal 1990.
 Even the American operation is far from being a united one. "When it comes time for a big election, the partners do whatever they want," said Thomas L. Holton, the insurgent who won at Boca Raton.
 The latest sparks of unrest began flashing in January, when compensation figures at four competing accounting firms were reported in the press. Partners at three of those firms had averaged $228,100 or more in the previous year, the reports said.
 Peat had long told its partners that they were at -- or near -- the top of the industry in terms of compensation. So the press reports "hit Peat Marwick like a thunderbolt," said a former tax partner, who contends that Peat partners averaged less than $200,000 in fiscal 1989.
 Younger partners, in particular, started questioning Peat's pyramid-like pay system. Mr. Horner was making $1.2 million by the end of his term as chairman, roughly 10 times what the lowest-level Peat partner earns. And there were 12 rather well-paid vice chairmen, three added during the Horner days.
 The younger partners were irritated, and their political clout made their voices important. The numbers are telling: of the 1,850 current Peat partners, 751 got their spots in just the last six years, giving the younger group more votes than usually mandated by seniority and performance.
After the press reports, Robert W. Beecher, then Peat's deputy chairman, promptly circulated a memo saying that partner compensation at Peat averaged $246,000 a year. But partners say that figure was inflated because it included interest earned on the capital that partners invested in the firm and was not adjusted downward to reflect the $15,000 average contribution that partners make to their pension plan every year. Failing to Change
 To blunt criticism, Mr. Horner named a task force to study the firm's governance structure, including its possibly bloated upper management. But he put several of the controversial vice chairmen on it. In April, when it recommended keeping the prevailing structure, many partners were outraged. "The committee was too beholden to Larry," said one.
 By June, the softening American economy and the slowdown in deals -- ranging from mergers and acquisitions to initial public offerings -- were taking their toll on all three of Peat's basic businesses: auditing, tax and consulting. After years of double-digit increases, Peat's domestic revenues for the year ended June 30 rose only 3 percent. Worse, the American partners made only $180 a share, flat from the year before, fanning fears that the KMG merger had yet to pay off for them. It was also becoming clear that some of softer spots -- like consulting, which Mr. Horner had neglected in favor of pursuing such new international clients as Pepsico -- were unable to hide behind prosperous lines of business.
 "Larry was really focused externally," said Mr. Madonna, expressing a view that Mr. Horner shares. "Larry viewed his role as the chairman to put in place our international network and to be the lead guy with our major clients, and that is where he focused his energies."
 If all this was like a cauldron waiting to boil over, it was Charles T. Smith who turned up the heat. Mr. Smith, a retired partner in Greenville, S.C., served on Peat's board from 1984 to 1986. He calls himself a big booster of the firm who "certainly doesn't want to say anything detrimental." But several former board members and partners say that he has nursed a grudge against Peat ever since he rejoined it in late 1969 after a nearly three-year absence.
 At that time, Mr. Smith asked Peat to consider his 13 years with the firm prior to 1967 in calculating his pension. "The plan was clear," said Mr. Hanson, who, as chairman of the firm, first handled the complaint. "He knew when he came back that he had no right to an extended pension." Fueling Mr. Smith's bitterness, partners say, was that he retired in December 1986, 10 months before changes in the partners' pension plan would have provided fatter benefits.
 Mr. Smith's complaints, detailed in a one-inch-thick, double-sided letter sent to all 1,850 Peat partners at his own expense in June, found a wide audience.
 The letter, an abridged version of a roughly 300-page tome he had sent to the board, saved its most pointed barbs for Mr. Horner, according to several current and former partners who read it. "I don't think there was any question that he intended to put Larry in a bad light," said D. Edward Martin, a former Peat partner.
 The letter complained about the nearly $1 million that Mr. Horner borrowed from the firm at the prime rate plus 1 percentage point so he could buy a $2 million apartment in Manhattan after becoming chairman in 1984. A Peat spokesman said that because of the profession's conflict of interest rules, accountants must avoid borrowing from banks audited by their firms. That is a problem for Peat partners because of the firm's many financial services clients. To get around it, Peat gave Mr. Horner a loan -- one of 442 now outstanding to various partners -- to help him relocate from California, where he had been a vice chairman in the Los Angeles office.
 The letter also griped about the chauffeur-driven grey Cadillac which Peat paid for whenever Mr. Horner traveled on business. And it objected to the firm's handling of a messy real estate investment, which, although it was independent of the firm itself, could have resulted in bankruptcy for roughly 60 key partners, including most of the the firm's Boston office and Mr. Beecher, then deputy chairman.
 Peat officials insist that the firm poured no money into the problem beyond advancing the Boston group some money against the balances in their capital accounts and the modest amount that Peat spent on its own legal fees. But many Peat partners still fume over the incident.
 Finally, the letter raised complaints about changes in the pension fund, which entitled partners retiring after October 1987 to receive up to 40 percent of their pay, up from about 35 percent under the old formula. The partners had approved the changes, but Mr. Smith and others contended it would unduly enrich senior managers because the plan did not cap the maximum annual benefit at $200,000.
 The timing of the letter proved to be as vexing as its contents. It came just a few weeks before Mr. Horner and K. Dane Brooksher, his hand-picked running mate, started visiting partners in six cities to discuss their candidacies for chairman and deputy chairman. Both men were already endorsed by the board but it was the partners who would have final say. The Stubborn Leader
 Mr. Horner's choice of Mr. Brooksher had been troubled from the beginning. Months before going on the campaign trail, Mr. Horner faced growing support for another running mate -- and rejected it.
 As several partners recounted the incident, the seeds of dissatisfaction had been planted the previous fall, at the firm's annual meeting. At the head table at dinner one evening, crowded with Peat's most powerful international partners, Mr. Horner had seated a young newcomer, a raven-haired man with an incandescent smile. At a firm in need of an heir-apparent, reading tea leaves had become a sport, and the partners at the other tables buzzed: So this would be Larry's choice for running mate, they murmured approvingly.
 The man beside Mr. Horner was Jon C. Madonna, head of Peat's San Francisco office. With the 56-year-old Mr. Horner nearing the firm's age-60 retirement date, the partners wanted an heir apparent who was young, charismatic, responsive to partner needs. Mr. Madonna, 47, fit the bill.
 But Mr. Horner, in fact, chose Mr. Brooksher, 51, who seemed far less promising and certainly not as charismatic, or so the partners said. And he compounded the error by refusing to switch running mates even after the partners told him, in meetings around the country, that Mr. Brooksher would not do. Mr. Horner said he did not want to drop Mr. Brooksher because it might cost Mr. Brooksher the respect of his clients and that could hurt the firm.
 The decision did not sit well in-house. And on Aug. 7, at the Plaza Hotel in New York, Mr. Horner called a special meeting of the board to announce that he would pull out of the race for chairman. He said he was doing it "for the benefit of the firm." He wanted to move on. The new chairman, he said, would need more than three years to wrestle with the long-term problems facing Peat, such as the viability of the partnership issue. "He made his case so convincingly that there wasn't a lot of room left for discussion," said J. Neal Purcell, who was present at the meeting. "It was irreversible."
 Within 24 hours, three partners were vying to fill Mr. Horner's job: Mr. Madonna, James G. Brocksmith Jr., the 49-year-old head of the Chicago office, and David C. Smith, the firm's vice chairman for taxes.
 When it became clear that Mr. Madonna and Mr. Brocksmith were the favorites, Mr. Smith dropped out. The remaining two contenders formed a ticket, with Mr. Madonna heading it. On Oct. 4, the partners voted them in.
 
Epilogue
 Mr. Madonna now fills the corner suite that Mr. Horner once held. Mr. Horner will remain chairman of KPMG, the parent operation, through December, but it is largely a ceremonial job and a non-paying one.
 He seems to have learned some lessons. As one of his last official acts, he authorized three new task forces to study compensation, retirement benefits and the firm's governance structure. Last month, the firm reconfigured its board to make it more democratic, cutting all 12 controversial vice chairmen from the board and expanding the number of nonmanagement members to 19 from 14. The changes turn what had been a management-heavy board into an oversight body, much like an outside board of directors at a corporation.
 Partners say they were pleased by the 11th-hour actions. But, for the man who had played such an important role at KPMG Peat Marwick, the grand gesture had come too late. SIZING UP A NEW BOSS
 IT is clearly too early to say how Jon Madonna will handle his new job. Partners have high hopes that he will get profits flowing again at Peat Marwick's American operation, revive areas that had grown lackluster under Larry Horner -- such as consulting -- and be more responsive to partner demands.
 But there are some sticking points. In an interview, a question on the Federal budget crisis, usually a favorite topic of debate for accountants, drew a rather tepid response. And at a firm whose leader must be as comfortable doing business in Frankfurt as in Wichita, he does not appear sure-footed dealing with world events. Asked about the implications of the Persian Gulf crisis, he had little to say, and then confused Egypt and Kuwait in describing which Peat partners might have had to make hasty escapes.
 "The international aspects of the firm are important, and that's something they are going to have to grow into," said Walter Hanson, a former chairman, speaking of the new team.

 
THE CURIOUS DISAPPEARING RUNNING MATE
 WHY Larry Horner refused to pick a running mate acceptable to Peat's partners remains a mystery, even to his successor, Jon Madonna.
 Mr. Madonna said that if Mr. Horner had offered him the No. 2 spot, he would have accepted it. Such a ticket might have been unbeatable. To many Peat partners, Mr. Horner, who had headed the firm's West German practice and won kudos in carrying out the off-again, on-again merger with KMG Main Hurdman, was just hitting his stride at the age of 56. With white hair and thickening waist, he looked like an amiable professor. But his appearance belied highly praised strategic planning skills and a willingness to use guerrilla tactics, such as hiring away the entire Canadian staff of Ernst & Whinney, a major competitor now part of Ernst & Young. Those traits helped make Peat a fearsome competitor in the profession.
 Mr. Madonna, by contrast, is a 47-year-old Californian whose sunny manner and chiseled features could have landed him a job anchoring the evening news. He fit the partners' youthful image of themselves and was smart enough to cast himself as the reformer who would make management more responsive to younger partners. He had won rave reviews for the way he ran the San Francisco office, and the way he cemented the firm's ties to once-shaky clients like Wells Fargo.
 "Madonna is just an outstanding partner, a partner's partner," said Robert B. Harman, a consultant at McKinsey & Company who used to be a partner at Peat.
 For his part, Mr. Horner said he "would have been delighted" to have linked up with Mr. Madonna. But, he said, the younger man was too much of an unknown to have won the board's approval and stood a better shot in three years, when the next election is scheduled. Clearly, Peat partners thought otherwise.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon C. Madonna, new chairman of KPMG Peat Marwick. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); chart: domestic and global revenues and number of partners worldwide of the six largest accounting firms, fiscal 1989 (Sources: Bowman's Accounting Report, Peat Marwick) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING; SIC5032 BRICK; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: KPMG PEAT MARWICK

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND
RESIGNATIONS ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (91%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); BOARD GAMES (68%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH; HORNER, LARRY D

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1991



611 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 23; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Tourism Industry Now No. 1 on Island

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
FOR the first time in Long Island history, tourism is the leading industry, in both revenue and employment, and there is growing recognition that the need to promote tourism is greater than ever.
Tourism has become better understood as a "clean" industry that attracts revenues and a wide range of jobs without major effects on the environment, Suffolk County Planning Director Arthur Kunz said. 
 Agriculture and tourism have traditionally been the two largest revenue-producing industries on Long Island. Travel-related spending on the Island rose, from $613 million in 1977 to slightly more than $2 billion in 1987, the most recent year for which statistics are available.
That was an increase of 226 percent over 10 years, Mr. Kunz said.
 
Travel-Related Jobs Rise
 In 1988, there were 95,000 travel-related jobs on the Island, making tourism the No. 1 industry in employment. That compared with 90,000 jobs in military industries, the second group in employment.
"To effectively promote tourism on the Island, we need to work with both New York City and the state in cooperative promotions, Mr. Kunz said. "The biggest shortfall of promotion efforts up to now has been their fragmented approach. Tourism has been promoted by individual hotels, museums and other attractions. But we have to change the focus and promote Long Island as a multiseason facility."
To determine the best direction to promote tourism, the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau has surveyed hotels, and the results are being analyzed. When asked how business this year compared with last year, 20 percent responded that business was much improved, 15 percent slightly improved, 5 percent the same, 40 percent slightly worse and 20 percent much worse.
Hotels on eastern Long Island were more positive, and those in Nassau were more pessimistic, the president of the bureau, Michael Davidson, said. Other preliminary findings show that the majority of recreational visitors to the East End are travelers from Nassau and Suffolk Counties, whereas business travelers tend to come from the entire New York metropolitan region, and a significant number are from California, Mr. Davidson said.
"We have always had a local market," he said. "One of our challenges is to draw from elsewhere. The survey so far is showing us that we should be concentrating on drawing from the New York metropolitan area. There's enough potential business within that range that our focus should be there. With a lower economy and people's reluctance to travel as far as in the past, Long Island is well positioned to draw the numbers."
The potential effect of a proposed 3 percent tax on all hotel rooms in Suffolk, part of the budget proposal in September, has met with mixed reactions. The indications are mixed on whether the tax will deter tourism, Mr. Davidson said, but his group officially opposes the tax as being an unfair burden on one industry.
A spokeswoman for County Executive Patrick G. Halpin, Lisa Mirabella, said most of the revenue from the tax would be specifically the advertising and promoting tourism.
 The Long Island Regional Planning Board study, financed by a grant from the State Economic Development Department, was completed last month.
 
List of Recommendations
 The study results indicated, Mr. Kunz said, there is a need to promote larger conventions at hotels, develop and promote recreational activities for families with children, build discount shopping outlets on the East End and direct part of the taxes from hotels to promotion.
The State Economic Development Department gave a grant last month to the Convention and Visitors Bureau, formerly the Long Island Tourism and Convention Commission, in the "I Love New York" matching-funds program. The program helps finance tourism promotion of 47 agencies.
Of the $5.2 million available through the program, the Long Island bureau applied for $250,000 and received $143,860. The money has to be spent on luring visitors from outside the region, Mr. Davidson said.
The bureau submitted this five-point marketing program in August:
*The promotion of charter-bus tours.
*A point-of-interest campaign.
*An arts-and-entertainment campaign.
*International promotion.
*The promotion of conventions and meetings.
 
Ample Space on Hand
 With the development of full-service hotels, there is now ample space to attract small and medium conventions, Mr. Davidson said.
A Meeting Planners Guide, to be published next month, will include "spouse trips." It will be mailed to selected planners and distributed at trade shows, Mr. Davidson said.
The new hotels and softness in business travel have resulted in an overabundance of hotel space, and conventions should be promoted, said Dianne Conway, director of convention sales for the Convention and Visitors Bureau.
Forty-eight hotels on Long Island may be suitable for meetings or conventions, she said. All provide full services geared to the corporate traveler, including meeting rooms, health clubs and concierges.
The six newest are the Huntington Hilton, formerly the Royce Carlton; the Marriott Windwatch in Hauppauge, the Marriott Residence Inn in Plainview, the Days Hotel in Brookhaven, the Radisson Islandia in Islandia and the Radisson Plaza in Melville, which opened in May.
 
What the Message Says
 "We want to bring the message to meeting planners that Long Island is an ideal spot to hold conferences, meetings and seminars," Ms. Conway said.
"When people are done with their business, there are so many sights and attractions to visit. During their free time, they can tour the Gold Coast mansions on the North Shore, visit the beautiful beaches, go whale watching off Montauk or tour the wineries on the North Fork. Long Island is a unique package."
To promote conventions and meetings, representatives of the bureau have attended trade shows in the Northeast.
Also, the responses to advertisements in business magazines have been favorable, she said, adding that one of the most-effective points had been areas and other features that allow guests to do "fun things" in their free time.
There has to be a connection between conventions and special attractions, said Theodora Bookman, executive director of Friends of the Arts, a sponsor of cultural events. Tying ticket sales for special events to conventions improves the likelihood that planners will pick the Island for meetings and conventions, she said.
 
Attractions of Happenings
 "There is no doubt that tourism in every place you go is promoted through the arts," Ms. Bookman said. "Happenings are what attract people; festivals unite people and pump money into the economy."
In recent years, attendance and cultural events have declined, except for outdoor summer concerts and programs, Ms. Bookman said.
A first-time Wild West festival, "Buffalo Bill Comes to the Planting Fields," is scheduled for June in Oyster Bay, sponsored by Planting Fieldsand Friends of the Arts.
 Lack of money is a major problem in promoting tourism, said William L. Maher, chairman of the Convention and Visitors Bureau.
"We are handicapped because we are trying to promote a region of approximately three million people, and working with a budget of about $250,000," he said. "Other regions that compete with us have far fewer people and much larger budgets."
The Old Bethpage Village Restoration, one of the Island's most popular attractions, is part of the Nassau County Department of Parks and Recreation, which has not had a budget increase in a few years.
 
Rise in Attendance Sought
 Attendance at the village last year was 177,811. The goal is 250,000, said Edward J. Smits, director of the county's museum services division.
Because it is owned by the county, the village is unable to promote itself like a private attraction and depends largely on the Convention and Visitors Bureau to increase attendance.
Last year, a financial dispute with Suffolk County threatened the bureau's activities. The problem concerned money and the level of promotion, and Mr. Davidson was hired as president of the bureau. When he took office in June, the bureau was late in starting to promote the 1990 tourism season, Mr. Maher said.
The general manager of the Long Island Marriott, Nick Smart, said the greatest need now is to have the public understand what was available on the Island.
"We are trying to make the connection between conventions and recreation and to capitalize on the Island's culture, historical significance and recreational facilities," he said.
"On the Island are vineyards, beaches and deep-sea fishing that are unsurpassed. There is so much here of which the public is not aware. We have to reach them and tell them Long Island's story."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TOURISM (94%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LODGING (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (77%); COUNTIES (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); STATISTICS (69%); CITIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); 

PERSON: SASLOW, LINDA

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



612 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 54; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3941 words

HEADLINE: Worlds Apart

BYLINE: BY JOYCE JOHNSON; Joyce Johnson is the author of a memoir, "Minor Characters," and a novel, "In the Night Cafe."

 BODY:
THE ROAD WE ARE ON NOW," our guide Nikolai announces dryly to the busload of American writers and their spouses, "was once called the Boulevard of the Enthusiasts." It picked up that name in the 19th century when political prisoners were herded along it in chains for the long walk to Siberia. Fortunately, we're now headed in the opposite direction, back to Moscow and the seedy comforts of the Hotel Ukraine, after our day trip to the ancient city of Suzdal and its innumerable wooden churches.
At this point, the jet-lagged passengers reserve their enthusiasm for supper and bed. We arrived just yesterday for our conference with the Soviet Writers' Union, now going through its own glasnost. Since 9 A.M., we have spent nine hours in this lurching un-air-conditioned vehicle. The poet Sharon Olds has given away all the trail mix she brought with her from Manhattan, where she also stuffed her suitcase with tuna fish. Unfortunately, the cans are in her room. 
 I, too, set out for the Soviet Union with such a suitcase. How carefully I prepared myself! I memorized the Cyrillic alphabet; I studied "Coping With Russia," which taught me the all-purpose pozhaluista (please) and how to get by without verbs. "Bring gifts," advised Richard Lourie, translator of the Sakharov memoirs. Panty hose, disposable cigarette lighters, bottles of shampoo and aspirin: I put all this stuff and some copies of my own books into a blue nylon bag, which vanished en route to Moscow, as Lourie had warned me it might. After my bag disappeared, I felt more authentic, less anxious, slightly less the American tourist. Or so I hoped until I saw the crowded itinerary that Tatyana Kudryavtseva, our tireless hostess, had arranged for us. It included four more days of visits to ancient churches and kremlins in provincial cities farther north.
To tell the truth, I'd be quite content to spend the entire two weeks in Moscow. The Hotel Ukraine is an elephantine, rose-colored wedding cake, a prime example of the style known as Stalin Gothic. My cavernous pink room is decorated with imitation Biedermeier, as if some genteel maiden aunt had chosen the furnishings. The ironed linen towels that hang in the bathroom are the kind my mother dried my hair with in the early 1940's.
The Ukraine's broad entranceway is not genteel. Men, who sometimes shout and scuffle with each other, lounge on the steps, smoking. I understand they're cabdrivers who will no longer drive for rubles. For Marlboros, maybe they'll take you. Some have the red-and-white packs taped suggestively to their dashboards. Moscow has become Marlboro Country. A few blocks away, "Married to the Mob" is playing to packed houses.
The Ukraine is filled with foreigners trying to get in on the ground floor for the various opportunities presented by perestroika. There are elevatorloads of Japanese businessmen, anorexic ballerinas from Winnipeg, German film makers, California fundamentalists carrying Bibles to Armenia. One American I talked to has opened a Moscow branch of B.B.D.& O., in anticipation of the Soviet need for advertising.
I never dreamt I'd miss advertising. The mysterious Hotel Ukraine does not advertise the presence of its restaurants. This morning, I asked the concierge on the sixth floor where I might find something to eat. She pointed down a block-long corridor: "Go the boofet." I went there, but the door was locked. "Go to the fifth floor," the concierge said scornfully. That boofet was also closed, as was the dingy coffee bar in the lobby. By accident, I noticed people walking through a deserted dining room and decided to follow. I found myself in a large inner dining room, invisible from the lobby, where you could eat all you wanted for two rubles.
Back from Suzdal at last, lying on my narrow bed, I think of an observation made by the Marquis de Custine over 150 years ago in "Empire of the Czar": "Generally, the first effect of civilization is to render what may be called material life easy; but here everything is difficult -- a cunning apathy is the secret of existence."

I'VE HEARD GRUMBLES from some of my colleagues about the leaden theme of our conference: "The Moral Effects of Social Change." To me, "moral effects" is redolent of "moral majority." Perhaps it sounds more inspiring in Russian. Originally, we were slated to discuss "religious effects" as well.
Did that idea originate in Moscow or in Malibu, Calif., the home of Pepperdine University, the main sponsor of the conference? Richly endowed by its Church of Christ founder with some of the immense profits from the Western Auto Supply Company, the conservative institution evidently finds it worthwhile to invest in some hands-across-the-sea ecumenism by sending to Russia the likes of Harrison Salisbury, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., David Halberstam, William Gass, Elizabeth Hardwick, Alfred Kazin, Studs Terkel and Louis Auchincloss. My smaller group, sponsored by the American Quaker group known as the Religious Society of Friends, includes the poets Sharon Olds and F. D. (Frank) Reeve and Mary Ward Brown, a writer from Alabama.
We met in Washington in May 1989, when our work was published in "The Human Experience," a Soviet-American joint publishing effort organized by Janet Riley of the Society of Friends, our United States sponsor. It was a warm, themeless conference at which everything under the sun was discussed, particularly during some memorable evenings away from the round table. The visiting novelists and poets were unabashedly curious about our situation, and vice versa. All the American writers felt a thrill when it was announced that in just a few weeks the 100th birthday of the great poet Anna Akhmatova (twice expelled from the Soviet Writers' Union) would be celebrated all over Russia. Our next feeling was embarrassment: such an event would be inconceivable in the United States, where no one is more marginal than a poet.
The Russians couldn't quite grasp this. They were impressed by our obvious health, our seeming prosperity, our freedom to write whatever we wished. Yet we kept speaking of our sense of irrelevance, our insecurity, the decline of our publishing houses. "What is the average pension of the American writer?" an elderly member of the Soviet Writers' Union asked. "The literature I think most typical of the United States is the agrarian novel," observed Tatyana Kudryav tseva, who after years of opposition had managed to get her translation of "Gone With the Wind" into print.
In Washington, Yunna Morits, a poet, spoke out fiercely, right in front of Aleksandr A. Mikhailov, head of the Moscow division of the Soviet Writers' Union, and Vladimir Belov, a Ukrainian nationalist, about the great harm Russia had done to its writers. During the years before she was accepted into the union, Morits told Sharon Olds and me, she had suffered from malnutrition and tuberculosis.
Not that the conservative writers weren't vocal as well. When Mikhailov warned against the negative moral consequences of publishing certain books, Georgi Andzhaparidze, the Soviet publisher of "The Human Experience," responded with the declaration: "We will publish anything and let the people decide what they want to read."

ANDZHAPARIDZE GREETS me warmly at the Writers' Club, a mansion right out of "Anna Karenina," and I catch a glimpse of Mikhailov, but I see few other familiar faces. Where, I wonder, is the radiantly fatalistic Anatoly Kim, the Soviet novelist of Korean parentage whose writing seems so much in the Tolstoyan tradition?
Norvel M. Young, the chancellor emeritus of Pepperdine, and his wife, Helen (co-author of "Time Management for Christian Women"), are shaking hands with various union officials and presenting them with plastic-wrapped maroon umbrellas that say Pepperdine, as Harrison Salisbury and Secretary of the Union Yuri I. Surovtsev, who will alternately chair this session, take their seats.
Ten thousand belong to the union. The majority have conformed for years to the dictates of the Communist Party, but even writers like Yunna Morits or Anatoly Kim still find membership an absolute necessity. There are, of course, the important benefits that have made the existence of the Soviet writer one of comparative privilege: access to the best available housing and medical care, to scarce foods and consumer goods, to underwritten travel, vacations and residences at writers' retreats. But even more essential is the right to be published, which up until now has been absolutely contingent upon membership. Although the works of exiled writers are beginning to appear, the union's grip on publishing has weakened now that publishing houses are no longer financially dependent upon the State.
I see only three female members at the long narrow table. Recently, female writers from 20 cities, outraged when yet another male editor was appointed to a major publishing house, formed an organization called the Honey Bee; 85 percent of the union members are male. Most of those who will be speaking today are distinctly middle-aged, heavy smokers with beat-up faces who don't look at all like the privileged elite. There is not a writer under 35 in the room. "The young are published in 'Youth' " was the uninformative answer I got when I asked one official whether there were important new writers emerging in Russia.
At the conference in Washington, there was optimism as well as astonishing openness. Here, the mood is bleak, apprehensive. Is it because glasnost has been threatened by an intervening year of increasingly hard times, or because the privileged life of the union writer is threatened by Gorbachev's goal of a free-market economy?
The first American speakers are resolutely upbeat. Arthur Schlesinger Jr. rejoices in history's capacity to produce surprises, hailing "the revolution of 1989" in Eastern Europe that has "refuted all determinism." Right after Schlesinger's statement, Viktor Rozov, a playwright who is the Russian equivalent of Arthur Miller, delivers an emotional appeal for American support: "There's a war being waged in this country. Be with us in this war. You must trust us, resolutely trust us in everything. Don't condemn us even if we suffer defeat. We suffered defeats in World War II, and you didn't leave us."
The novelist and playwright Aleksandr Borshchagovsky, who like Rozov lauds Gorbachev, describes his country's current situation as "radical, tragic, absolutely acute. We sense it with our skin, in every argument that erupts."
"Freedom is not undangerous," observes Grigory Baklanov, a novelist and editor who helped found a society to build a monument to Stalin's victims. "It's no accident that fascism is emerging in Eastern Europe, here and in France."
I note that Baklanov carefully makes no outright references to anti-Semitism. Nor do other speakers. I've discovered that if you try to discuss this topic with a Russian, you are apt to be told: "We have greater problems." Yet manifestations of hatred for Jews are all too evident in Moscow. On Saturday, in the lobby of the Hotel Rossiya, a middle-aged Russian was proudly sporting a large "Goyim for Jesus" button that some religious fanatics from California had just given him. At the Writers' Club, last January, a writers' meeting was disrupted by a group of anti-Semitic Pamyat roughnecks. I have never felt more conscious of being a Jew than I do in Moscow.
Harrison Salisbury and David Halberstam make statements about the vital role the investigative journalist plays in America, but most of our delegates do not present an encouraging picture of the serious writer in the free market, competing for an audience with the electronic media and even with journalism. "Both your country and ours are in danger of being overrun by banality," warns Studs Terkel. The lost, empty young Russians he saw last night in a bar reminded him of lost young Americans.
Sharon Olds has the misfortune of being the last speaker before the 2 P.M. lunch break. She has chosen to read a powerful poem about an encounter with an underprivileged black teen-ager on a Manhattan subway. She reads it to an emptying room. While the Russians politely remain seated, a number of her famished countrymen are already rushing toward the lobby leading to the famous Writers' Club dining room.

EVERYTHING IS RELATIVE. Some of the luxuries the union members enjoy, which cause so much resentment among the less elite, are quite modest by American standards. The writers' restaurant, reputedly one of the best in the whole country, has been hit hard by food shortages; its capacities are strained to the utmost by having so many additional guests. "It used to be more fun than it is now," a fiftyish Siberian writer tells me wistfully. "In the old days, it was always full of beautiful young ladies."
From the smoked-fish appetizers and carrot salad to the inevitable vanilla ice cream, the fare the waitress keeps bringing is essentially the same one can eat twice a day around town, if admitted to a restaurant. Even Americans are rudely treated until the word "dollars" registers. "Come in," the bouncer may then graciously say, opening the door just enough to let you slip through the crowd of infuriated ruble-paying citizens. A waiter will ceremoniously hand you a large menu listing nothing that is currently available; you may, however, be quietly offered caviar, which appears to be far more plentiful than lettuce. In the Writers' Club dining room, with its hunting-lodge decor, the quickly corrupted visiting writer can dine without guilt.
The American delegates have become obsessed with the quest for food, a major conversational theme. Forgetting all caloric considerations, we eat every drop of our two daily servings of ice cream. As for me, my daydreams are filled with oranges.

ON THE LAST DAY OF our conference, when Georgi Andzhaparidze takes over the Soviet chair, attention shifts to the possible effects a free-market economy may have upon the publishing of Soviet literature. There's nothing like some foreboding remarks from a book publisher to get authors of any nationality riled up.
Extrapolating from his own recent experiences as the Soviet publisher of our anthology, "The Human Experience," Andzhaparidze analyzes the implications of what he considers its "very poor sale" in the United States. How can it be that the affluent American public bought fewer than 6,000 copies of a book that sold 50,000 in the Soviet Union? Why, asks Andzhaparidze, did Alfred A. Knopf invest nothing in promotion and advertising? (American publishers now invest as little as possible in books that will sell only 6,000 copies, even if the titles are prestigious. They will no longer gamble that such books might break out.) While bottom-line publishing has come to make perfect sense to American publishers, Andzhaparidze is almost as reluctant as most writers to accept its philosophy. Nonetheless, one prediction he makes in dramatic language is probably quite realistic: "The Soviet Union is on the threshold of a new kind of censorship -- economic rather than political."
Like all publishers in his country, Andzhaparidze usually prints only one edition of a work in response to advance demand from state booksellers, pays the writer accordingly before publication and does not go back to press. "If our book industry is played on a market basis," Andzhaparidze reasons, "only 1,000 out of 10,000 union members will be able to live on earnings. Our literature largely prepared perestroika." What will happen to such literature if "soon we may find ourselves under the dictates of the market?" He finds it alarming that he has only "an indecent" 15,000 advance orders (a very respectable figure by American standards) for an upcoming edition of Vaclav Havel's plays.
Some members of the Pepperdine group react as if Andzhaparidze is advocating the return of political censorship. Aleksandr Borshchagovsky compounds the misunderstanding: "Political censorship leads to distortion of experience. Market censorship will lead to integrity."
"I do not share your optimism," Andzhaparidze says gloomily, reminding Borshchagovsky and the Americans who are unfamiliar with his efforts that he's the publisher of Solzhenitsyn and Joseph Brodsky. As for increased integrity in writing, he cannot name a single Soviet work that "reflects what's happening today."
It's the final hour by this time, and the proceedings seem to go into a tailspin. The statements from American writers in particular take on an increasingly embittered tone. James Ragan, a poet from Los Angeles, worries that economic self-censorship is making American poets imitative and predicts that they will now knuckle under to the proposed anti-obscenity standards of the National Endowment for the Arts when they apply for grants. But the Russians are not up on the N.E.A. and Jesse Helms, and Ragan is insulted when Elizabeth Hardwick breaks into one of his sentences. She clearly does not think the prospect of craven poets censoring themselves worthy of discussion. For the serious writer, "it should be enough that his book exists, that even one copy is in the library."
Throughout all this, Alfred Kazin has been brooding. "Literature, for my purpose, does not exist any more," he declares. "The literary tradition is individually held, mostly by writers. What is being threatened is not our sales but literature itself." His final melancholy reflection is about journalism, which he calls "one of the banes of our existence -- everything turns into journalism."
Responding to Hardwick's earlier comment, Larisa Vasilyeva, a poet and a founder of the Bee, attacks the individualistic thinking of American writers: "You want your book to be on the library shelf. We are people of community, unconsoled by the book being in the library but nobody will read it."
"We didn't understand each other," Salisbury admits as he closes the meeting. "Each side was talking in its own world."

"WRITERS WANT A market economy for everything except publishing," Georgi Andzhaparidze says with an ironic shrug when I visit him at his publishing house, Khudozhestvennaya Literatura, the following day. He has a rather grand, handsomely paneled office in one of those old pastel stucco buildings that make some streets in Moscow look like Italy.
This year, the house is celebrating its 60th anniversary. It specializes in literary fiction and poetry. "We pay poets from the money of Pushkin," Andzhaparidze says, passing some chocolates down the table. "This is a poet-preserving country. But in a market situation, editions of 5,000 will be pushed out."
The best-selling poet on the list is Yevgeny Yevtushenko. Two hundred fifty thousand copies of his last book sold out immediately. "I told him when we start market industry," Andzhaparidze says, "I will make a poet bigger than you, but maybe not as good."
At the present, the greatest problem for Khudozhestvennaya Literatura is one inconceivable to American publishers: excess of demand. (The Russians even have an expression, knizhny golod, which translates as book hunger.) "The demand is big," Andzhaparidze explains, "the paper is short," The 90-year-old paper mills are "falling to pieces."
Nonetheless, he has big printing plans for the kinds of books that have huge readership these days: a half-million copies of Solzhenitsyn's "Cancer Ward"; 100,000 copies of Joseph Brodsky's poems; five-volume collections of Pasternak and Mikhail Bulgakov in editions of 400,000; an illustrated boxed edition of Tolstoy -- "a coffee book for intellectuals." Soon he'll be adding I. B. Singer, John Updike and John Barth to the already sizable American writers series. Pearl Buck as well. In the race to catch up with several decades of American writing, some surprising choices crop up. Even in publishing there's the sense of a time warp -- of living in 1990 and 1940 simultaneously.
In a black Volga, Andzhaparidze gives me a lift to the Writers Club' for a luncheon with Georgian champagne before leaving Moscow on an overnight train to visit Novgorod and Pskov. On the way, almost casually, Andzhaparidze makes a surprising prediction: "There are great splits in the Writers' Union. Soon it may splinter into Lithuanians, Georgians, Muscovites, Russians. Who knows what will happen? By next year, the Soviet Writers' Union may no longer exist."

"PUSHKIN," PEOPLE reverently say in the Soviet Union, "Dostoyevsky, Lermontov, Tolstoy . . . " as though their works were published just yesterday. The homes and graves of these dissident writers of the past are national shrines.
From Pskov, we travel to the estate where Pushkin, exiled from St. Petersburg because of his support of the Decembrists, spent two years and wrote some of his finest poems. The original house, totally destroyed by the Nazis, has been painstakingly reconstructed. The Nazis also mined Pushkin's tomb, but the Red Army liberated it just in time. The day of our visit, it's strewn with wildflowers.
The dacha in Peredelkino, the writers' retreat where Boris Pasternak lived under house arrest after winning the Nobel Prize during the Khrushchev era, is the newest of these sacred places. We go there as well, with Yevgeny Yevtushenko as our host, a few days before our departure for the United States. We see the monastic room in which Pasternak died, and I read the titles on his bookshelves. There's a row of Americans -- William Faulkner, Henry James, even a copy of a 1957 Evergreen Review with contributions by Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac.
Yevtushenko leads us past hayfields to the grave. Rather self-consciously we pick dandelions and forget-me-nots to drop on the mound. Our host pours wine into paper cups; it is the custom to have a drink by the graveside, he says. We all, even the nondrinking Dr. and Mrs. Norvel Young, raise our paper cups as Yevtushenko makes a toast: "To the great writer, the great composer." Then, mischievously: "To the great womanizer."

PASTERNAK published "Dr. Zhivago" four decades after the Russian Revolution. There is no sign as yet of the great glasnost novel. Perhaps it will appear 10 years from now, or even 25. Novelists do not respond instantaneously to convulsive change the way journalists do. Perhaps the future author of the great glasnost novel is now only 15 years old, a person who already sees the world in a way that would surprise or disconcert those who came of age during the war or the Stalin, Khrushchev or Brezhnev years.
"You came at the most interesting moment," says Anatoly Kim, the day our small group departs for the United States. Back from a visit to South Korea, he has driven over to the Hotel Ukraine with gifts of books, vodka and matryoshka dolls for Frank Reeve, Mary Ward Brown and me. As we sit talking in Frank's room, Anatoly seems to get closer to the heart of things than anyone did at the conference.
"The Soviet Man," he says, pausing to let Frank translate, "is being forced to turn into the human being. Just as the Tsarist Man passed, the Soviet Man is passing. You must understand -- it's a time of great anguish and emptiness. The Soviet Man is buried deep in the character of many Russians. He does not know how to be free."
Anatoly tells us a story: "A flock of wild geese flies over a peasant village. The tame geese look up at them. Oh, yes, they flap their wings. But they do not fly."
Then, steadily looking into our American faces, he finds a different image for us to take home: "It's as though a dead stick was planted and grew leaves."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The conferees as nonaccidental tourists. The author, Joyce Johnson, above left, with Mary Ward Brown, a writer from Alabama. Louis Auchincloss and Alfred and Judith Kazin, at right, sit it out so Adele Auchincloss can take the snapshot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: WRITING AND WRITERS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES WRITERS (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (69%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, JOYCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



613 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Which Industries Should New York Help?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
From "New York Fears Exodus of Jobs on Wall Street" (front page, Nov. 3), one would think that the $100 million in grants, tax breaks and energy subsidies that the city is contemplating for the commodities exchanges is supported by rational economic policy. However, the folly of spending $100 million of public aid for private profit is economically unjustified in this case.
A 1989 Coopers & Lybrand study found that the economic multiplier for financial services is sixth, compared with other city industries. Substantial public funds to support the commodities exchanges would generate meager returns. By contrast, other enervated economic sectors, long neglected by city policy makers, have higher economic multipliers and thus would produce greater gains if supported and subsidized.
Both the apparel industry and the printing and publishing industry are, according to the 1989 study, ranked third for New York City economic multipliers. This can be attributed to a largely indigenous work force, living in all five boroughs and reflecting the racial, social and ethnic composition of the city. Note that the printing industry in New York City has a sales volume of more than $3 billion a year, with a work force three times that cited for the commodities exchanges.
 In his campaign, Mayor David N. Dinkins espoused support for the graphic arts and apparel industry and bemoaned misguided policy that emphasized subsidies and support for financial services. Yet the city's development policy appears still riveted on Wall Street, at the expense of the city's manufacturing base, which has lost 150,000 jobs in a decade. It is in the best interest of New York City to realign its support for those who manufacture the tangible, as opposed to those who barter the speculative.
 
WILLIAM A. DIRZULAITIS
President, Assn. of the Graphic Arts
New York, Nov. 8, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (72%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (72%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND (72%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; COMMODITIES COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); MAYORS (75%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); RANKINGS (71%); RELOCATIONS (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



614 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS SCENE;
The Disappearing Labor Shortage

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
REMEMBER the days, only a year ago, when the fast-food restaurants couldn't find enough counter help? Outfits like McDonald's and Wendy's even recruited teen-agers in city neighborhoods and bused them to suburban restaurants. Help-wanted signs appeared in many windows, and the scramble for entry-level workers in the fast-food industry became the most popular evidence that the nation suffered from a shortage of young workers.
Now, suddenly, the hiring problems at the fast-food restaurants have evaporated. The busing has become a rare event, and the help-wanted signs are mostly gone. Job applications are rising and hourly wages, which had inched up to more than $6 an hour in the Northeast, the Northwest and a few other sections of the country, have leveled off. 
 "The markets no longer require that we jump wages significantly; the pressure began to come off toward the end of last year," said David Gillen, director of personnel at McDonald's, where the average wage for hourly workers at the 1,700 company-owned outlets is $4.89 an hour. At Burger King, the average is $4.40 an hour; at Wendy's, $4.10.
Clearly, the downturn in the American economy has eased the labor shortage for entry-level and low-wage jobs. Hiring freezes and layoffs have forced many more people to seek this work, which is mostly consigned to young people under 24 years old. Much publicity has been given to the fact that the current generation in this age group is much smaller than its predecessor, the baby boom generation. Until the economic downturn fattened the pool of job applicants, many executives had blamed demographics for their difficulty in finding enough qualified young workers.
 But low wages have been equally at fault because they discourage people from seeking these jobs, some economists argue. Aside from the fast-food industry, with its more than 3.5 million workers, the labor shortages showed up at restaurants in general, and at hotels, resorts, retail stores and other big employers of unskilled hourly workers. They are among 28.7 million people, or 24 percent of all the jobholders in America, who earn less than $7 an hour.
The personnel practices at the fast-food restaurants help to explain why the wages of workers in this under $7-an-hour category rose much less in the 1980's than the incomes of better-paid Americans. Wendy's and McDonald's, for example, recruit heavily among retirees, who seek to supplement their pensions and are less likely than younger workers to apply pressure for higher wages. More than 9 percent of all fast-food employees were over 55 in the late 1980's, a Government survey found.
Mothers of young children are another source of recruits, the lure being flexible work schedules at a store near their homes. The flexibility allows them to be home when they wish. The mothers aremostly part-time workers; in fact, most workers in fast-food restaurants are part-time employees, and part-time employees tend to be less insistent on wage increases than full-time workers. Wendy's, for instance, says 90 percent of the 120,000 people at its restaurants work part time, and it does not provide health benefits for them -- another major savings.
Perhaps the most important damper on wages has been the willingness of the fast-food industry to operate short of staff, rather than offer slightly higher pay to attract young people from among the millions who have been reluctant to enter the labor force. If a restaurant manager with a normal staff of 20 needs five more employees to complete his roster, and he offers $5.50 an hour to get them, then the 15 counter workers making $4.50 an hour are likely to seek the same pay.
Dennis Lynch, a Wendy's spokesman, tells of a rival fast-food operator in Pittsburgh who tired of being chronically short of help. He raised the wage of his workers to $6 an hour, although Wendy's and other competitors in the neighborhood were paying $4.50. "He was right. He quickly got a full staff," Mr. Lynch said. "But sales did not rise, his costs were too much and he had to retrench on wages."
The shortage of young workers and the temptation to raise wages were particularly acute in Massachusetts in 1988. With the unemployment rate below 3 percent, fast-food restaurants scrambled for hourly workers and pay rose to $6.50 an hour -- the highest for McDonald's in the nation -- from about $4 in 1984. The line held at $6.50, and when the economic downturn finally came, starting pay was still at this level and the pressure for another wage increase disappeared.
That makes the downturn a "double whammy" for young, less-educated hourly workers, says Lawrence Katz, a Harvard University labor economist. "Their best shot at breaking the wage ceiling came in 1988, and it failed," he said. "Now with labor more plentiful, it is not as easy for them to get a job, and when they do, the wage is frozen."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; SHORTAGES FAST FOOD (92%); LABOR SHORTAGES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (86%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); RESORTS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); CHILDREN (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS SIR GEORGE YOUNG (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



615 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Tough Times Cut Opportunities for Minority Journalists

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
Reduced advertising and tight economic conditions at most newspapers appear to be hurting the industrywide effort to increase diversity in the nation's newsrooms.
"We know it's getting harder for people to find jobs," said Diane Yen-Mei Wong, executive director of the Asian American Journalists Association. 
 Some leaders of minority journalist organizations are expressing concern that hiring freezes and slashed budgets may become more a rationalization than a reason for slowing the effort to hire and promote black, Hispanic, Asian and Native American journalists.
"We see the recession as an excuse not to keep the commitment made through the years to vastly increase the number of minorities in newsrooms," said Thomas Morgan, president of the National Association of Black Journalists and a reporter for The New York Times.
For years, the American Society of Newspaper Editors has tracked the slow progress of minority hiring, and the annual announcement that little or no progress had been made was a regular refrain during the 1980's.
For instance, in 1989, the percentage of minority journalists at the nation's newspapers increased to 7.86 percent from 7.56 percent in 1988.
Cornelius F. Foote, minority affairs director for the society, said the 1990 report would probably show a slight increase at best, though no employment figures were yet available.
Members of minority groups are often among the most junior employees at a newspaper, and layoffs tend to hit them disporportionately hard. For instance, when The Wall Street Journal announced last week that it was closing its Philadelphia bureau, four of the six people who lost their jobs were minority journalists.
Roger B. May, a Journal spokesman, said the paper was committed to an affirmative action policy. He said the overall percentage of minority journalists at the paper was likely to be unchanged by companywide cutbacks.
 
Budget Constraints
 Mr. Foote said efforts to place minority journalists in more senior positions at newspapers had also been slowed by budget constraints.
There are clear signs that minority hiring is receiving less attention.
Mr. Foote said 25 to 30 news organizations had sent recruiters this year to job fairs for minority journalists. Last year, 35 to 50 news organizations were represented at job fairs, and one fair attracted 75 recruiters.
"From what I hear, we are filling fewer positions," said Rebecca M. Baybrook-Heckenbach, director of employment for Knight-Ridder Inc. "But for those we do fill, we are looking more fervently for minority talent than we ever have."
Carolyn Lee, assistant managing editor for administration and personnel at The New York Times, said the paper expected to keep its affirmative action efforts "absolutely intact," though she added that the paper was "somewhat slower and more cautious in filling positions."
Over all, the message to minority journalists seems to be that entering the newspaper business is becoming even more difficult.
"Minorities looking for a job now have to be that much more enterprising and that much more willing to go to places they never thought they would before," Mr. Foote said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (81%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; LABOR; NEWSPAPERS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); INDIANS, AMERICAN; ASIAN-AMERICANS; BLACKS (IN US); HIRING AND PROMOTION; ADVERTISING; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) JOURNALISM (91%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



616 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: To Victors Go the Trials After Races Against Taxes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LANSING, Mich., Nov. 13

 BODY:
In his campaign for governor, John Engler told voters what they apparently wanted to hear.
He promised to allocate half of future state budgets to education. He promised a crackdown on crime that would put white-collar criminals in chain gangs and deny drug offenders school loans, welfare grants and driver's licenses. And in what was apparently his most effective pledge, he promised to reduce local property taxes by 20 percent. On Election Day, the 40-year-old Republican unexpectedly defeated James J. Blanchard, the two-term Governor, by 19,000 votes out of 2.5 million cast. 
 Now Mr. Engler and other new governors elected on anti-tax, anti-incumbent platforms face the challenge of delivering on their promises. It will not be easy.
 "With the anti-tax climate out there," said Marcia A. Howard, research director for the National Association of State Budget Officers, "it's going to make it all the more interesting to watch how the new governors deal with problems in most states. When they realize how bad the fiscal condition of their state is, they will have to call on all their creative powers to balance budgets without tax increases or significant cutbacks, never mind any tax decreases."
 
Michigan in Middle of Pack
 Michigan is one of six states in which voters rejected incumbent Governors and one of 14 in which the governor's office changed parties. Most governors, new and old, will begin 1991 facing an array of financial problems, including state economies that are declining and tax revenues that are dwindling just as more people are applying for social services, welfare and unemployment benefits. The "new federalism" of the Ronald Reagan years placed growing responsibility on the states, especially for health costs.
Financial problems vary considerably around the nation. On one extreme is Alaska, where Governor-elect Walter J. Hickel will be figuring out how to spend a projected $1 billion surplus from oil profits; on the other is Oklahoma, whose oil producers have still not recovered from the price collapse of the early 1980's. There, Governor-elect David L. Walters will be dealing with what he calls an "economy that has been in such depths of depression there is almost no place to go but up."
Many Northeastern states that boomed in the 1980's, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, are in deep trouble, too.
Ms. Howard said Michigan's budget deficit and a deteriorating economic situation put it in the middle of the pack of the 33 states that face fiscal problems this year.
 
Facing a $1 Billion Deficit
 Mr. Engler faces the immediate problem of a projected $1 billion budget deficit in the 1991 fiscal year and campaign promises that would reduce state revenue. But he seems confident that he can succeed by eliminating waste in state government.
"The public wants leadership," Mr. Engler said in an interview this week at the state Capitol, where he is the majority leader of the State Senate. "I know where all the sacred cows are out in pasture, and the people elected me to go get them. Is 10 percent of the budget misspent or able to be refocused? Most people believe yes; I believe yes."
In addition to the property tax cut, Mr. Engler also proposed limiting increases on home assessments, exempting the state's large elderly population from school taxes and reimbursing local school districts for the lost revenue. But in his position paper on tax reform he offered no blueprint for managing the state without all the revenue.
 
Plans Do Not Match Needs
 In the interview he mentioned some specific reductions, but nothing that would provide the kind of money needed to balance the budget and grant tax relief. He said, for example, that he would strictly enforce an existing freeze on state hiring, eliminate most state contracts for consultants and studies, weed out programs like a $25 million seasonal job program for teen-agers from middle-income families and eliminate most public relations activities.
A dispirited Governor Blanchard predicted in an interview that Mr. Engler would fail because the "Legislature's appetite for spending" was growing twice as fast as state revenues.
Mr. Engler will inherit a $373 million deficit left from the last fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, and faces a projected deficit of nearly $1 billion for the current fiscal year, according to a new report from the State Senate Fiscal Agency, the research arm of the Republican-controlled Senate. Combined, these deficits would wipe out the state's reserve fund and require a cut of about $1 billion in this year's $9.5 billion budget or a host of creative accounting measures to balance it, as required by the state Constitution.
 
Working Toward Bigger Deficit
 If Mr. Engler rolls back property taxes as promised, the deficit would increase by about $500 million more this year. Both houses of the Legislature have passed bills that would reduce local property taxes, but they were unable to resolve the differences.
With that kind of political momentum, the taxes may be reduced, but Ms. Howard at the association of budget officers said, "It is impossible to imagine how it would work."
The state has much less flexibility to deal with the problem now than in 1982, said Warren C. Gregory, associate director of the Michigan House Fiscal Agency. a research arm of the Democratic-controlled House, Back then the budget crisis occurred after a decade of growth, he said, but now the state faces a financial problem of similar magnitude after a decade of retrenchment.
 
Automobile Cutbacks Hurt
 The state's economy has become more diversified, but primarily because of the decline in the automobile industry. Unemployment, higher than the national average for years, is now about 7.6 percent and expected to reach 8.5 percent next year, and to be much higher in urban centers like Detroit. There are more service jobs, but they pay much less than manufacturing jobs. Since 1982, personal income has declined by 7 percent.
"I'm getting by," said Ken Robinson, a taxi driver in Lansing who said he works 12 hours a day, six days a week and still does not make as much as he did before the General Motors Corporation laid him off two years ago.
The poor have gotten poorer: Michigan's $479-a-month welfare allotment for a family of three ranks 12th highest in the nation, but over the decade, the subsidy's purchasing power has declined by almost 30 percent.
State taxes do not bring in as much money as they once did, Mr. Gregory said, because legislators have written exemptions into the 4.6 percent income tax, the 4 percent sales tax and assorted business taxes. He said these exemptions, which receive little legislative review, have grown rapidly in the last decade and are now about equal to the $9.5 billion state budget.
A particularly vexing problem is a criminal justice system that is absorbing an ever-larger portion of the state budget. Annual spending on corrections increased to $668 million, or 7.2 percent of the budget, in 1990 from $146 million, or 2.8 percent, in 1980. In the same period, annual state spending on elementary and secondary education increased to $2.8 billion from $1.9 billion, but education's share of the budget decreased from 37 percent to 30 percent.
Michigan, which ranked sixth in the nation for major crimes last year, expects to imprison a larger percentage of its population than any other state when it completes its 28th prison in 1992.
It is in this environment that Mr. Engler proposes that the state get even tougher on crime, particularly drug-related crime. "I don't claim to be an expert in this area," he said, "but we need to make improvements across the board in prevention, education, law enforcement. We'll fine tune it as we learn more."
 As a deterrent, as well as a way to improve highways, Mr. Engler has said he would revive chain gangs and put white-collar criminals on them along with those convicted of violent crimes.
Since Mr. Engler has promised to improve anti-crime and education programs, the only major expenditures left to reduce in the state budget are social services and mental health programs, said State Representative David C. Hollister, chairman of a House subcommittee on social services. "I'm expecting major cuts, pain, a bloodbath," he said.
Because most social services have Federal mandates and subsidies, Michigan legislators have recently proposed trimming or eliminating optional programs, like a general assistance program that helps unemployed or part-time workers and people who are not eligible for Federal assistance. The program costs about $240 million a year.
 
A Diabetic Tells of Need
 Karen R. Nevins, for example, works in a Lansing convenience store and takes home wages of about $600 a month. She is diabetic and receives a general assistance grant of about $150 a month to buy medication; she has no health insurance. "As it is, I eat once a day and walk to work to save bus fare," she said. "If I lost the grant, I don't know what I would do. I've had more diabetic comas than I have fingers and toes; I would die without my medication."
But Cheryl and Philip Neuroth, Republicans who voted for Mr. Engler, say public assistance benefits are too generous, and they say they should know because they received state food subsidies of about $45 a month during most of the past two years.
"We were eligible because our income fell below $18,600," Mrs. Neuroth said. "Now that's pretty high to get free food, don't you think?" She said she applied for the state program because she lost her job as a corporate manager and a drought had ruined corn and wheat crops on her husband's 700-acre farm in Riga Township, in southeast Michigan.
Mr. Neuroth said, "You can only tax people so long and so much and they will rebel against it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Governor-elect John Engler (Robert Killips for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF STATE BUDGET OFFICERS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNORS (US); STATES (US); ELECTION ISSUES BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TAX LAW (71%); DRIVERS LICENSES (57%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; HOWARD, MARCIA A; ENGLER, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



617 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: As Connecticut Budget Picture Darkens, Weicker Faces Grim Tax Choice

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Throughout his campaign for governor, Lowell P. Weicker Jr. sidestepped questions on whether he would raise sales taxes or propose a state income tax to close Connecticut's budget gap.
On several occasions, he called both options unappealing but refused to rule them out, saying he needed "flexibility to deal with circumstances that no one contemplates." 
 But now, the Governor-elect has found that he faces a projected $2.1 billion revenue shortfall for the next 18 months. That is almost a third of the state's current $7.1 billion budget.
The shortfall, which is part of a preliminary 1991-92 budget prepared by Gov. William A. O'Neill, may force Mr. Weicker to consider higher taxes, short-term bonds, deep cuts in state spending and possibly even a broader income tax to close the gap.
 
Economy Is Seen Diving
 Mr. Weicker, who is expected to release his first budget proposal before he takes office on Jan. 9, may be further spurred by fears that the shortfall -- the difference between state spending and the amount of revenue it collects -- could widen further in 1991, as Connecticut slips deeper into what many economists and lawmakers here believe is a recession.
"They will have to raise taxes no matter how much you implement in cost cutting," said State Senator Joseph H. Harper Jr., a Democrat of New Britain who is co-chairman of the Appropriations Committee. "In my opinion, the stage is set for tax reform, something that would bring in a progressive income tax with some decrease in other taxes."
But preparing the budget is muddled by the state's odd political mix. Both chambers of the General Assembly, which convenes in February for a three-month session that will be dominated by fiscal issues, are controlled by the Democratic Party. Mr. Weicker, a former three-term Senator, is a liberal Republican who ran as an independent. He was elected with 40 percent of the vote in a three-way race chiefly on the support of Democratic voters.
Democratic legislative leaders expect Mr. Weicker to espouse a moderate to liberal Republican agenda. They note that one of his two chiefs of staff will be Thomas J. D'Amore Jr., a campaign co-chairman and a former Republican state chairman.
 
Highest Sales Tax in Nation
 Some Republicans, particularly conservatives who have long scorned Mr. Weicker, worry that he will forge an alliance with liberal Democrats. For decades, the Democrats have sought a broader income tax to help increase the state's revenue and make it more consistent than the current system, which is based largely on an 8 percent sales tax, the highest in the nation.
"It's a dire situation," said Senator M. Adela Eads, a moderate Republican from Kent, who was elected Senate minority leader. "I'm afraid I see an income tax coming down the road, and I don't like that."
Mr. Weicker, citing a need to make administration appointments and study Mr. O'Neill's 1991-92 budget proposal, has not specified how he plans to reduce the $2.1 billion shortfall, which includes $562 million for the fiscal year that ends on June 30.
An indication of his administration's fiscal course may come on Monday, though, when Mr. Weicker announces a new Secretary of the Office of Policy and Management.
 
'Gasoline on a Fire'
 The top candidates appear to be State Representative William J. Cibes Jr., a liberal Democrat from New London, and Senator Reginald J. Smith of New Hartford. a liberal Republican.
Connecticut is one of only 10 states that has no tax on wages. It does, however, tax income on dividends, interest and capital gains at 14 percent, the highest rate in the nation.
Mr. Weicker has attributed the $2.1 billion shortfall to a recession, citing drops in revenue from sales and corporation taxes. He has also said he opposes a tax on wages during a recession, likening it "to throwing gasoline on a fire."
A $2 billion shortfall could force the issue, which has led some income tax opponents to question whether the size of Mr. O'Neill's projected budget gap is an exaggeration.
 
An Unrealistic Wish List?
 The critics say that the estimate is based on a wish list of expenditures and revenues that are unrealistic. The figure was derived from an $8.64 billion budget proposal for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1991. It includes a 21 percent spending increase, which many consider to be unaffordable. It is also based on what many legislators believe are overly optimistic revenue projections.
"I'm not sure it's a $2 billion hole," said Representative Richard O. Belden, a Republican of Shelton and the deputy minority leader in the House.
Republicans have urged a freeze on state spending, including delaying an 8 percent raise scheduled for state employees next year. They also want to enact $300 million to $500 million in spending cuts recommended by a commission that has been studying government efficiency. Revenue increases, if needed, would be minor and limited to proposals like removing some exemptions from the sales tax.
 
Politics May Bar Deep Cuts
 Income-tax proponents, however, believe that deep spending cuts are not politically feasible, and that reducing some tax exemptions would not be well received.
Even the most comprehensive income tax proposal presented so far would collect only $598 million more in state revenue. That plan, offered by Mr. Cibes during the Democratic gubernatorial primary, recommended a tax on wages starting at 4 percent of adjusted gross income over $25,000, with a peak of 8 percent for income over $100,000. The sales tax would be cut to 5 percent, and corporate taxes would be cut to 10 percent, from 13.8.
"If you polled the Assembly now, I don't think they will be able to make the kinds of cuts needed to balance the budget," Mr. Harper said. "And even if we cut a billion, which would be miraculous, you still have to come up with another billion in revenue."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; SALES TAX; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); 

PERSON: WEICKER, LOWELL P JR; RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



618 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Woes Seen Worsening

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
The slump in commercial real estate is almost certain to get worse before it gets better, real estate executives, bankers and other business people say.
In a recent survey of 400 real estate executives conducted by Ernst & Young, the accounting firm, many predicted that prices of commercial property would fall sharply in the next two to three years and might not recover for four or five years. 
 Despite the hard times that many banks and builders have reported this year, "I think the most amazing thing is that people will look back at the fourth quarter of 1990 and say things weren't that bad," said David N. Webb, head of real estate financing at Merrill Lynch, echoing what appears to be a prevailing sentiment.
 
'We Haven't Hit Bottom Yet'
 There are myriad reasons why the commercial property market will probably weaken further. One, some experts say, is that banks have kept prices from caving in faster by putting off the unpleasant task of foreclosing on developers.
"We haven't hit bottom yet, partly because there are innumerable projects where the lenders have not yet taken title to properties that are now in default," said Arthur Sonnenblick, vice chairman of the Sonnenblick-Goldman Corporation, one of the country's largest commercial brokers. "When that starts to happen you're going to see things hit the bottom."
And more properties are expected to come to market over the next several years as lenders refuse to extend or renegotiate many of the record number of five- and seven-year commercial mortgages they wrote in the late 1980's. Developers who are now straining to make payments on mortgages issued in 1986, for instance, when interest rates were at their lowest level in 13 years, will be even more likely to default if those mortgages are rolled over at the current higher rates.
 
Defaults by Developers
 Unable to refinance their mortgages, many developers will walk away, forcing lenders to take over their properties. Other builders may file for bankruptcy protection.
In the New York metropolitan region several big development companies have recently defaulted on mortgages for large projects. The Lefrak Organization defaulted this month on a $150 million mortgage on a huge apartment complex called Newport, in Jersey City. And in July, Milstein Properties, another well-known New York development company owned by a well-respected family, defaulted on a $100 million mortgage on a large Manhattan rental complex.
Almost no region of the country is escaping the growing real estate problems. Even California, whose diversified economy, rapid growth and position on the Pacific Rim led many experts to conclude that it was immune to the troubles of the East and the Southwest, has begun to stumble as job growth has slowed and layoffs have picked up steam. A nationwide recession would further hurt real estate demand and the economy in California, which accounts for nearly one in nine jobs in the country.
 
Alarmingly High Vacancy Rates
 Vacancy rates are already alarmingly high across the country, and even in pockets of growth, like Seattle, the specter of recession threatens to quash demand. As of September, the office vacancy rates in cities nationwide averaged almost 20 percent. Some cities have enough vacant space to supply their needs for nearly 20 years, based on today's leasing rates and assuming no new buildings are added.
In New York City, the picture is not much brighter. The vacancy rate in downtown Manhattan has climbed to 18.7 percent, up from 14.1 percent at the end of 1989, according to Coldwell Banker, the national real estate brokerage subsidiary of Sears, Roebuck & Company. Prime Manhattan office space that rented for $40 a square foot a year ago can be found on the market today for $33, and in September and October, leasing of commercial space in Manhattan was down 11 percent, to 3.5 million square feet, from the comparable period in 1989, according to a report by Julien J. Studley Inc.
Values are eroding for all but the highest-quality office and retail properties, which are generally immune from market downturns, and certain types of industrial buildings, like high-tech warehouses and manufacturing plants.
 
Few Buyers or Renters
 These rising vacancy rates and falling real estate values are already making it difficult for many developers to find buyers or renters willing to pay prices high enough for them to meet their mortgage payments or to sell their properties at a profit.
And the search could become even more difficult as buyers and renters, worried about the uncertainties, demand deeper discounts. "There are some horrendous times coming," said J. Steven Manolis, a managing director at Salomon Brothers in charge of the real estate group, "and I think that between now and the next 18 months will be the worst because the buyers' and sellers' attitudes are at their widest."
 
Options for Lenders
 The decline in credit for real estate transactions prevents developers from borrowing money to meet cash shortfalls or to pay for tenant improvements that make their properties more attractive to buyers or renters in the glutted market. As a result, some will be forced to lower their sale or rental prices sharply to generate cash, depressing the market further, while others will default on their mortgages.
That result will put lenders in the position of either foreclosing and selling properties themselves, possibly at cheap prices for quick sales, or renegotiating the terms with the borrowers, an option they have exercised so as to avoid increasing their real estate holdings.
The sluggish economy will continue to put downward pressure on property values and rents. As more companies cut jobs and close down operations, additional office space will come onto the market, driving down prices. For instance, since the 1987 stock market crash, Wall Street has reduced its work force by nearly 30,000 employees. Based on an estimated 250 square feet of space for each employee, that could create 7.5 million square feet of office space.
But the biggest factor in the continuing decline of the real estate market is the credit squeeze. In an attempt to limit their vulnerability to the real estate downturn, and in response to pressure from regulators, commercial banks have sharply reduced their lending to the real estate industry for construction or commercial mortgages over the last 12 months. To write a commercial mortgage now banks have been forced by regulators to reserve twice the amount of capital needed for a single-family mortgage.
Citicorp, for instance, staggering under at least $2.2 billion of nonperforming real estate loans, announced last week that it would close half its real estate lending offices across the nation.
 
Less Money From S.& L.'s
 There is also less money available for these projects from savings and loans. Under the Federal bailout legislation, savings and loans must now have more capital in reserve for real estate acquisition, development and construction loans, and each institution is limited in the amount of money it can lend to one borrower.
"The dominant market factor is that there is extremely little liquidity in the real estate markets," Mr. Webb of Merrill Lynch said, "and the largest amount of liquidity is in the hands of conservative investors like life insurance companies and pension funds."
While pension funds and insurance companies have millions of dollars designated for real estate, industry executives say they are waiting for the markets to collapse further before they invest.
"The liquidity in the system has to come from pension funds," said Daniel M. Neidich, the head of Goldman, Sachs & Company's real estate group, "and some of the pension funds have been burnt and won't want to buy buildings for a while."
 
Japanese Buyers Skittish
 Adding to the liquidity problem is that Japanese buyers, who bolstered commercial property values in the 80's, have apparently become skittish.
"The Japanese, almost more than we do, determine the market," said Richard B. Stearns, chairman of Prudential Real Estate Investors.
So far this year, the Japanese have invested $9.1 billion in real estate in the United States, with only $1.2 billion of it going into office space, according to Kenneth Leventhal & Company, an accounting firm that specializes in the real estate industry. Last year, the Japanese invested $14.8 billion in United States real estate, including $3.4 billion in office space.
Like many pension fund investors, the Japanese are wary of the disappointing returns on office complexes in the United States and are troubled by the vacancy rates. As a result, they have shifted more of their investment into American resorts and hotels.
Falling land prices in Tokyo and the unstable stock market there have reduced the lending power of the big Japanese banks, further dampening real estate investment. Higher Japanese interest rates have also made it more expensive for Japanese investors to buy property abroad.
 
An International Problem
 Indeed the surge in troubled real estate loans is causing problems not only for major American banks and insurance companies, but also for other international financial institutions, as real estate markets sink simultaneously worldwide -- a development made possible in large part by the increasing linkage of the global financial markets.
From London to Tokyo, real estate loan losses are threatening to undermine the health of major banking companies. Japan led the world in the declining returns of its real estate stocks in the third quarter of this year, according to Salomon Brothers. Real estate loans made by Japan's big banks have risen to $380 billion, or 22.7 percent of their total assets. They approach 40 percent of assets at some of the smaller regional banks.
In London, interest rates in the 15 percent range have kept the real estate market in a rut. It is estimated that up to 20 percent of the real estate loans made by British banks are in trouble.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Number of vacant office buildings in major U.S. cities from '83 to '90 (Source: Coldwell Banker) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ERNST & YOUNG

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; PRICES; FORECASTS REAL ESTATE (95%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (64%); LAYOFFS (60%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



619 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: FISCAL TURMOIL;
More Painful Cuts for New York City

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
The Cuomo administration's proposed $100 million cut in state aid to New York City would strike hardest at schools, health services and social programs and, coming atop the city's own retrenchments, could force painful new cuts in essential services, city officials said yesterday.
While cutbacks appear to be unavoidable, the officials said, their nature and extent will not be evident for days or weeks, until the State Legislature considers the measures urged by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo on Saturday to close a $1 billion gap in the state's current budget. 
 "It's going to be painful -- it's going to be noticeable," the city's Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, said in an interview yesterday. "We cannot spare essential services: education, hospitals, social services. We have no other place to turn to get these reductions."
City schools, which have sustained more than $270 million in budget cuts in the last year and would lose $75 million more in state aid in the current year under the Governor's proposals, would be especially hard hit, city and union officials said.
 
Consequences Called Severe
 "A cut like that would be very damaging," said James S. Vlasto, a spokesman for the Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez. And Bert Shanas, speaking for the United Federation of Teachers, said, "These cuts, if they went through, would devastate the school system."
Andrew J. Stein, the City Council President, urged the City Council and the State Legislature yesterday to reject a 5.5 percent pay raise that the city recently negotiated with the teachers. "It's completely unrealistic," Mr. Stein said at a news conference.
Mayor David N. Dinkins, who left yesterday for an eight-day vacation at Hilton Head, S.C., said through a spokesman, Leland Jones, "It is clear that the cuts are deep and the consequences will be severe on the people of New York City."
But the Mayor and other city officials, apparently acknowledging that the state's fiscal problems were large and real, did not say they would fight the Governor's plans in the Legislature and seemed inclined to accept Mr. Cuomo's pledge that the state would work with the city to keep the cuts to $100 million.
State officials, expanding yesterday on the Governor's budget plan, said that the proposed cuts in state aid to the city actually totaled about $183 million, but would be offset by more than $82 million in savings in Medicaid and foster-care costs.
Anne Crowley, a spokeswoman for the Governor, said that the state plan called for cuts in aid to the city of $75 million for education, $63.6 million in Medicaid reimbursements, $27 million for revenue sharing and $20 million for social services, transportation, economic development and other categories of assistance.
Offsetting these cuts, Ms. Crowley said, would be $42 million in savings to the city from a cutback in mandated Medicaid costs, and $40 million in Federal money for foster care that the state planned to pass along to the city.
 
Gauging the Impact
 Like many aspects of the developing fiscal crisis, the real impact of the proposed cuts -- the programs that might be slashed, the number of people who might lose their jobs, the extent of service cutbacks -- was hard to gauge, obscured by clouds of numbers and doomsday warnings.
But Mr. Michael said: "New layoffs are a strong possibility, and we may have to eliminate full programs. There is no other way to satisfy these cuts. We've already cut what is least needed. We have gone deeply into real programs, so more cuts will involve more of those essential programs."
And, Mr. Michael and others pointed out, the cuts would be imposed over less than half the state's remaining fiscal year, which runs from March to March; that would more than double the impact, making a 2.5 percent school-aid cut more like a 6 percent cut in the four and a half months left in the state's fiscal year.
The loss of state aid for Medicaid reimbursements, Mr. Michael said, could drive many elderly and poor patients from private to public hospitals for state-subsidized care. And the loss of $27 million in revenue-sharing money would hurt the city budget across the board, since the money may be used any way the city sees fit.
"Painful as the current cuts are going to be, there are a lot more to go," Mr. Michael said. He noted that the city's budget gap for next year has been estimated at $1.3 billion and the state's gap for next year could be more than $3 billion.
"It's not insoluble, but we are certainly embarking upon very difficult times," he said. "And the problems will be with us until the reversal of the economic cycle that is the cause of it all. This austerity is certainly in the cards for some time to come -- for a year or two at least."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH BUDGETS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



620 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Charities Face Large Losses In Failed Bank

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Charitable organizations that maintained more than one account in the failed Freedom National Bank stand to lose hundreds of thousands of dollars that they had thought was protected by Federal deposit insurance.
Officials of the community services organizations, which provide day care, programs for the elderly, foster care, housing and assistance to crime victims, had been under the impression that as long as each account was under the $100,000 limit for Federal insurance, they would be able to recover all their funds after the bank's failure. But last week they began to learn otherwise. 
The Fort Greene Senior Citizens Council in Brooklyn, for example, had $350,000 in 24 checking accounts at the bank, which is based in Harlem. But the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation reimbursed it for only $100,000.
"That was not our understanding of the insurance program at all," said Sam Pinn, the council's chairman. "Obviously, we would not have left ourselves vulnerable."
 
Appeal by Abrams
 He added that the council also placed the money in separate accounts because of requirements from public and private agencies that finance some of its programs.
Although most of the charitable organizations maintained accounts less than the Federal Government's $100,000 insurance limit, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which is managing the reimbursement of depositors at the bank, considers the multiple accounts of a single depositor as a single account.
The New York State Attorney General, Robert Abrams, who learned of the situation late on Friday, has appealed to L. William Seidman, the F.D.I.C. chairman, for a more lenient interpretation of the deposit insurance regulations.
Mr. Seidman said in an interview yesterday that the deposit insurance applies to aggregate deposits, not individual ones, and that the agency would apply the regulations to Freedom's depositors.
"If all of the accounts were in one name and there was no indication that they belonged to other people and they were over $100,000 total, it applies the same to everyone," he said. But he added that a final decision would not be made until Mr. Abrams's letter had been reviewed.
In the largest bailout of an insolvent bank, the $4.5 billion Government takeover of Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company in 1984, the F.D.I.C. did insure all deposits.
Because of the size of Continental Illinois, its failure would have had such a severe impact on the financial system that it would have cost the Government much more than the $4.5 billion it spent to bail the bank out, Mr. Seidman said. "We have to use the least costly method of dealing with failures," he said.
If the F.D.I.C. had found a buyer for Freedom or had been able to establish a merger with another bank, no depositors would lose money because the new bank would take responsibility for the deposits. "It's a rare situation," he said of Freedom, "but it can happen under the present rules."
Many of the charitable groups had deposited in Freedom, a black-owned bank, as a way of supporting economic independence in the black community, but they had distributed their money in several accounts either to take advantage of the Federal insurance or because they were required to by their financing sources.
In a letter to Mr. Seidman, the Attorney General noted: "In many instances these not-for-profits have maintained multiple accounts because they are required by their governmental or private funding sources to segregate and hold these monies in trust for restricted charitable purposes."
 
Losses May Exceed $1 Million
 In an interview yesterday, Mr. Abrams said, "Based on the preliminary information, we could be talking about many hundreds of thousands of dollars, maybe even more than $1 million, and we're just talking about the Brooklyn area."
Mr. Pinn, of the Fort Greene Senior Citizens Council, said that because of the losses, the council would be unable to pay the teachers, social workers and vendors that supply services to its programs. Among the services the council provides are meals for almost 8,000 elderly people each day and day-care centers that care for more than 200 children from low-income families.
The council will have to shut down four programs before Thanksgiving if the Federal Government does not refund the money, he said.
Mr. Abrams said he did not know whether any churches, several of which held multiple accounts at the bank, were affected.
"At this point it's hard to say," he said. "The initial indications are that this could involve a very significant number of organizations."
 
Interpreting the Rules
 Mr. Abrams said he had heard that one community service organization in Brooklyn had lost more than $700,000.
In his letter to Mr. Seidman, Mr. Abrams asked the F.D.I.C. to consider community groups as trustees or agents for the various charities and community services they fund instead of as single depositors.
He said Federal regulations could be interpreted to make a distinction for a single trustee managing funds for several charities or community service programs. "We think they should look at the beneficiaries of the account as individual entities, not only the trustee or the name on the account," he said.
Alan Aviles, an aide to Mr. Abrams, said the regulations already distinguish between formal trusts and individual depositors. He said the F.D.I.C. considers the beneficiaries of a trust, not the trustee, when applying the deposit insurance limit.
The Fort Greene Senior Citizens Council has already submitted contracts to support the argument that it is merely a custodian for funds used by many different agencies.
The losses by charities at Freedom came to light during a hearing on Friday on issues affecting the elderly in minority communities, held by Assemblyman Arthur O. Eve, Democrat of Buffalo. Mr. Eve said several executives of nonprofit organizations that serve the elderly canceled their testimony because their programs were affected by the bank's failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK; FREEDOM NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK; FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC)

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; DEPOSIT INSURANCE BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (91%); CHARITIES (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); TAKEOVERS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); AGING (72%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); 

PERSON: SEIDMAN, L WILLIAM (CHMN); STROM, STEPHANIE; ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



621 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: FISCAL TURMOIL;
Cuomo's Fiscal Shift

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The harsh budget-cutting plan proposed on Saturday by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo represents a drastic policy shift for his administration, which is being guided by a grim new set of economic and political concerns.
 Hemmed in on one side by a shrinking economy and on the other by voters' antipathy toward new taxes, the Governor, most political and financial analysts say, had few alternatives but to propose deep spending cuts in response to the state's recurring fiscal problems. Mr. Cuomo, who was re-elected this month by a disappointing margin, seemed to concur. On Saturday he said he had "no choice" but to seek thousands of layoffs and deep cuts in state programs.
 
No New Taxes, Fees or Tricks
 But in doing so, he tacitly acknowledged that the methods he had used in the past to avert such pain had done little but delay it. Signaling a clear change in strategy, Mr. Cuomo said that this year he would reject the kind of moves he often relied on over the last three years to cushion the impact of the state's fiscal problems. 
 "I will reject any proposed tax increases," Mr. Cuomo declared sternly. "I will reject any cash manipulations. I will reject the idea of deficit notes."
Unlike past deficit-reduction plans, the one presented on Saturday calls for no new taxes or fees. It does not rely on accounting tricks and "one-shot" revenues to create the semblance of balance without the substance. Nor does it depend on increased borrowing by selling short-term notes, or deficit notes, to financial institutions, a practice that has allowed the state to avoid anguish in one year by putting it off until the next.
"It's a major departure from the last couple of years," said Raymond D. Horton, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a monitoring group financed by businesses. "It's the first serious proposal to deal with a midyear problem that we've seen from the Governor."
The plan calls for layoffs of 10,000 state government workers over the next 17 months, which would be the largest number of layoffs in state history. With attrition, the state's work force would be reduced by about 18,000 positions, or 10 percent. The plan also includes substantial cuts in state aid to education, Medicaid spending and state grants to local governments.
The immediate goal of the plan is to deal with the current fiscal year's budget gap, which is estimated to be about $900 million. But it is also supposed to have long-term benefits: If the cuts are carried over into the next fiscal year, which starts on April 1, they would save the state another $1.3 billion. In that year, the state is facing a budget gap estimated at up to $3 billion.
The plan could have important political advantages for the Governor as well. Although Cuomo administration officials insist that the plan, and the inevitable battle it will provoke with lawmakers and labor leaders, are incompatible with White House ambitions, many Albany politicians believe Mr. Cuomo is taking forceful action now to prepare for a Presidential run later on.
"What's driving this," said one state official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, "is the whole national agenda."
Ever since New York State's finances started to deterioriate in 1988, fiscal analysts have been urging the Governor to take steps to bring state spending in line with shrinking state revenues. Most analysts said the sooner the adminstration started paring down the government, the less pain it would have to cause later on.
 
Defends Past Deficit Spending
 Mr. Cuomo had little use for that advice. He allowed large budget gaps to develop, closed them with stopgap measures and then watched them expand again, like floodwaters overflowing a makeshift dam.
Indeed, even as he presented his plan on Saturday, Mr. Cuomo unrepentantly defended the deficit spending of the last few years, saying: "The spending we did, I'm proud of. I think we needed those prisons. I think we needed those corrections officers."
With his new plan, however, Mr. Cuomo seemed to have finally acknowledged that drastic and lasting measures were needed to give the state a measure of fiscal stability. This change of heart, it seems, was provoked by a combination of factors, some fiscal, some political.
On the fiscal side, the Cuomo administration has concluded that for the near future at least, state tax collections are likely only to shrink. And by most accounts, including his own, the Governor has simply run out of the reserve funds and accounting tricks that he once turned to for temporary relief.
 
'You're Out of Room'
 "You cannot this year play any of those games," Mr. Cuomo said. "Why? Because you're out of room."
Borrowing has also become increasingly difficult. Under a plan announced with much fanfare in the spring, the state is actually supposed to be reducing its annual borrowing by paying off its long-term deficit over the next 30 years. If, less than a year after announcing this plan, the state turned around and increased its borrowing, many experts said, the financial markets would react harshly.
"From a rating agency perspective, we need to see that one of the state's principal focuses is on not building up any further need for borrowing," said George Leung, a vice president of Moody's Investors Service. The state already has the lowest bond rating in its history.
From the results of this month's election, Mr. Cuomo seemed to be politically barred from solving the state's fiscal problems through further tax increases, and he said as much.
 
Election Message on Taxes
 "They said 'No taxes,' " he said of the voters. On Nov. 6, voters rejected a proposed environmental bond issue he had backed, presumably because they thought it would cost them more money. In each of the last two years, Mr. Cuomo approved record tax increases.
Often the gubernatorial election seemed a referendum on Mr. Cuomo's fiscal stewardship, and when the Governor won the race against three unknowns by a surprisingly small margin, many politicians here said he would have to take bold action to regain his stature.
"The plan is basically a response to the criticism he got during the campaign on fiscal leadership," said Mel Miller, the Assembly Speaker. "I don't think he had much choice."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); MEDICAID (71%); DEBT NOTES (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



622 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: FISCAL TURMOIL;
In New Jersey, a Fear of the Bad Old Days

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
From the gilded casinos of Atlantic City to tiny villages reminiscent of old New England, New Jerseyans are expressing confusion and rage about their Governor, the economy and the future of a state that until recently seemed full of optimism.
In contrast with the 1980's, when the state shed its poor public image and entered an era of economic resurgence, New Jerseyans today are greeting news ranging from rising taxes to the teetering of Donald J. Trump's empire with a fear that the state may be returning to the bad old days they have labored hard to forget. 
 "Our glory days are over," said State Senator Laurence S. Weiss, a Democrat and fiscal expert.
In dozens of interviews around the state over the last 10 days, small-town mayors, legislators and average citizens said they believed the ordinary people of New Jersey were being buffeted by leaders and institutions way beyond their control. To many, the state's Democratic Governor, Jim Florio, has come to personify the very forces that are filling the public with trepidation.
In particular this weekend, New Jerseyans were attempting to comprehend how a state that experienced years of buoyant growth, and which this year was already hit with the biggest tax increase in its history, suddenly found itself on Friday with a $600 million budget shortfall.
"I'm amazed that just a year ago, the state had a budget apparently in order and all of a sudden a new person comes in andwe're in a fiscal morass," said Harry Plonskier, a 38-year-old executive with a cellular telephone company who lives in Mahwah. "What Florio is doing is discouraging people from living in the state. He's going to cause New Jersey to lose the luster it's had for the last 10 years."
 
Liberal Program Pushed
 Such political sentiments are reflected these days in "Impeach Florio" cigarette lighters and bumper stickers showing up around the state, as well as by an Election Day poll this month showing that 80 percent of the voters who were questioned disapproved of Mr. Florio's fiscal policies.
The Governor last spring pushed a wide range of liberal initiatives through the Legislature, including a $2.8 billion tax plan designed to balance the budget and shift money from the state's more affluent suburbs to its poorer cities. On Nov. 6, voters vented their anger over the Florio taxes in the near defeat of the state's most prominent Democrat, Senator Bill Bradley.
But even more than the anger at Mr. Florio, New Jerseyans in interviews voiced concern about their ability to make ends meet as the unemployment rate rises and the cost of property taxes and insurance skyrocket. Often with a sneer, they described their political leaders as unwilling to empathize or listen.
"I never see myself being able to retire," said 39-year-old Daniel M. Koppa, a pharmacist in Manahawkin who holds two jobs and with his wife, who is also employed, takes care of their baby. "There's not a lot of time left over. Not enough time and not enough money."
 
Pride in State Slipping
 A silver-haired volunteer fireman in Wrightstown, N.J., who spoke on the condition that his name not be printed, asked, "What good does it do to talk about it? Talk's cheap, and nobody listens."
Such interviews are echoed in the results of recent public opinion polls in New Jersey showing a striking drop in residents' pride in their state, faith in their leaders and hope for the future.
In July, only 59 percent of New Jerseyans rated their state as an excellent or good place to live in, down from 80 percent in 1984, according to a poll by the Eagleton Institute of Rutgers University.
Another poll for the institute, conducted between Sept. 24 and Oct. 2, found that 74 percent of New Jerseyans believed that the state "had pretty seriously gotten off on the wrong track." And a majority said the state government disregarded public opinion when it made decisions. The polls, each of 800 residents, reported margins of error of 3.5 percentage points.
 
'It's Just a Gamble'
 "It's so uncertain," said Steven Klaus, 40, operator of a service station in Hopewell, when asked about the future. "It's just a gamble. You're better off in Las Vegas on a roll."
Worries about the future in New Jersey are similar to the concerns of Americans in other states, who this fall have faced the increasing likelihood of a recession, a budget deadlock in Washington and the prospect of war in the Middle East.
But residents in New Jersey are particularly sensitive to headlines about recessions, taxes and political mismanagement. For in the 1970's, the state suffered economic troubles more acutely than the nation as a whole, and it experienced rebirth in the 1980's more dramatically than any other state in the region.
In the 1980's, New Jersey's economy created more than 500,000 new jobs, and the state shed its image of being a butt of comedian jokes, often perceived by outsiders as a toxic land bridge between Philadelphia and New York.
 
Deficit Upon Deficit
 After the 1970's, when the state lost tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs and the unemployment rate reached nearly 10 percent, residents were relieved to see their state become a magnet for tourists and service-industry jobs. Government was no longer staggering from fiscal crisis to crisis. By 1986, unemployment fell below 4 percent, and the state reported large surpluses.
On Friday State Treasurer Douglas C. Berman reported that that the state was facing a $600 million shortfall, even though Governor Florio had pushed more than $1.4 in new taxes to cover a $600 million shortfall discovered in the spring. Mr. Berman blamed a recession striking states throughout the region.
In the same week New Jerseyans learned that Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the largest medical insurer in the state, was asking for a 47.5 percent increase in premiums and that Donald Trump had defaulted on payments for the largest casino in Atlantic City, the Taj Mahal, a major employer.
Florio administration officials said the state's economy would remain far stronger than it was in the 1970's. And they argued that some of the pain of property taxpayers would be relieved next year when less affluent taxpayers and school districts receive new aid as a result of increased income taxes on richer residents.
 
From Bad to Worse
 But interviews with dozens of mayors and other municipal leaders around the state, both Democrats and Republicans, indicated that even among those who had attempted to understand the Florio tax program, there was a conviction that the plan was only going to make bad times worse.
"I'm afraid we are just going to have to start laying people off," said William S. Marple, the Republican Mayor of Elk Township, a rural municipality of 3,600 in southern New Jersey. "Most mayors agree with me, I think. This thing is completely stupid."
Some Democratic mayors said they were upset that the Governor had imposed a complex set of liberal policies without consulting with or explaining them to the public. What Mr. Florio saw as fairness looked to many outside of Trenton as ideological rigidity.
"Florio's mistake was not explaining anything to the public before he acted," said Donald Aronson, the Democratic Mayor of Englewood. "The public believes we must take care of our brothers. At the same time they see this as a redistribution of wealth. To them that is a repugnant philosophy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I never see myself being able to retire," said Daniel M. Koppa, a pharmacist in Manahawkin, N.J., who holds two jobs and helps his wife, who is also employed, take care of their 11-month-old daughter, Abigale. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times); "Florio's mistake was not explaning anything to the public before he acted," said Mayor Donald Aronson of Englewood. (The New York Times); "It's so uncertain," said Steven Klaus, operator of a service station in Hopewell, when asked about the future. "It's just a gamble." (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TRENDS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) DONALD TRUMP (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



623 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN EUROPE;
Designing the New Europe: Plenty to Argue About

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The leaders of the United States, the Soviet Union and more than 30 other European countries began arriving here today for an extraordinary summit meeting to celebrate the end of the division of Europe and to design ways of guaranteeing peace and democracy on a continent twice ravaged by world war in this century.
But given the pace of events since the Berlin wall fell a year ago, they also gathered under the shadow of a possible war in the Persian Gulf, disarray in the Soviet Union, a bitter trade dispute between Washington and the European Community and government crises in Britain and France.
 
Baker's Optimistic Filter
 For three days, however, the 34 leaders are to try to focus on the challenges facing the emerging new Europe, hailing the dramatic changes that have already taken place, but also approving documents and creating mechanisms aimed at preventing a return of political tension and instability. 
 "For the first time in 40 years, Europe will be meeting and discussing and planning, without an artificial East-West divide to block progress," Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d noted last week, adding that democratic and market principles were now the region's common guides.
 
Nonaggression Pledge
 The summit meeting itself, held under the auspices of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, is to open Monday with participants signing a far-reaching treaty sharply reducing the levels of conventional weapons permissible for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact in an area stretching from the Atlantic to the Urals.
The two alliances are also scheduled to sign a nonaggression pledge, while all 34 leaders are to wind up the meeting on Wednesday by approving a document establishing a small permanent secretariat for the security conference as well as a conflict-prevention center, an election-monitoring office and a legislative Assembly of Europe.
Most leaders attending flew into Paris tonight, where 10,000 police officers have been mobilized to provide security. Metal crowd barriers appear to be more numerous than trees, and the conference center on the Avenue Kleber near the Arc de Triomphe stands protected by armed guards and anti-aircraft missiles.
 
Bush's Lunch With Kohl
 President Bush, who spent Saturday in Prague, arrived here after having lunch with the West German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, in Bonn and immediately went to Elysee Palace for dinner with President Francois Mitterrand. The Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, flew in from a brief visit to Rome, which included a meeting with Pope John Paul II.
The American and Soviet leaders are to confer privately at dinner Monday night, one of the myriad meetings that will take place here this week, with the gulf crisis and the latest political developments in Moscow expected to dominate their planned 90 minutes of talks.
To insure continuity of the process that began when the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe signed the Helsinki Final Act in 1975, the 34 nations plan to hold regular ministerial meetings and a summit meeting every two years, with the next one scheduled for Helsinki in 1992.
Further, as a result of this meeting, continuing talks to build confidence and enhance security in Europe should be given a new push toward still greater exchanges of information on military doctrine, arms acquisitions, maneuvers and stockpiling between members of the security conference.
 
Byproducts of Helsinki Process
 Working in favor of the security conference is the recognition that from its origins it contributed to the decline of Communism; in calling for democracy, freedom of speech and respect for human rights, the Helsinki Final Act set in motion protest movements in several Soviet bloc countries and became, in Mr. Baker's words, "a beacon of hope."
Significantly, among the 11 Presidents, 21 Prime Ministers, one Minister of State and one Secretary of State here this week, there are three -- Czechoslovakia's President, Vaclav Havel; Poland's Prime Minister, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, and Bulgaria's President, Zhelvu Zhelev -- who suffered jail or persecution for trying to exercize rights guaranteed by the Helsinki accord.
For 15 years, the security conference was also the only European body that brought together the 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization, including the United States and Canada, the seven-nation Warsaw Pact and 12 neutral administrations, among them tiny states like the Vatican, San Marino, Monaco and Liechtenstein.
With German unification last month, the security conference shrank to 34 members -- and the Warsaw Pact to 6. But Albania, which long preferred isolation, has now applied to join and has so far been accepted as an observer. The three Baltic states -- Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia -- are also lobbying for membership in their campaign for independence from the Soviet Union. Their foreign ministers have come to Paris this week as "distinguished guests" of the French Government.
 
History and Hyperbole
 Yet while this week's meeting has been compared, with considerable hyperbole, to the Congress of Vienna in 1815 that redrew the map of Europe after the Napoleonic wars, it is also apparent that present plans for the security conference fall far short of those advocated by the Soviet Union and several East European countries.
With the doors to NATO and the 12-nation European Community still closed to fresh members, the disintegration of the Warsaw Pact led the former East bloc nations to look to the conference to provide a new, all-European security structure for a post-cold-war era in which military alliances have lost importance.
But the United States has discouraged moves to turn the security conference into a kind of European United Nations for fear that this would weaken NATO and, in the process, erode its influence in Europe. Rather, Washington has favored building the new Europe around principles rather than institutions.
At the same time, the security conference has no mandate for involvement in two of the problems -- the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the surge of nationalist and ethnic tensions across Eastern Europe -- that most threaten European stability today, since both are considered domestic questions. But they are certain to be tackled in many private meetings here this week.
 
U.S.-West European Rift
 No less urgent a topic for discussion between Mr. Bush and his European colleagues is the dispute between Washington and the European Community that has deadlocked crucial negotiations to liberalize world trade under the so-called Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
With these talks due to enter their final week of bargaining in Brussels on Dec. 3, pessimism is rife. And while all parties have warned of the dangers of a disastrous protectionist trade war if they fail, the United States and the community remain far apart on the central issue of agricultural exports.
 
Domestic Worries
 Several European leaders are also in Paris with domestic problems on their minds. On Monday, the Socialist Government of Prime Minister Michel Rocard faces possible defeat in a vote of confidence in the French National Assembly. On Tuesday, Margaret Thatcher's 11-year rule as Britain's Prime Minister will be challenged in a vote for the Conservative Party leadership.
But while Poland has presidential elections on Nov. 25 and the first elections for all of unified Germany are scheduled for Dec. 2, it is the unstable situation in the Soviet Union that seems most likely to remind summit participants that the end of the cold war does not mean that Europe's troubles are over.
Arguing for a positive response to President Gorbachev's appeals for economic aid, a Western representative to NATO said it was essential to build "a sensible and cooperative" relationship with Moscow. "It's important to make the Soviets feel they belong to the new Europe," he said. "If we allow Moscow to feel excluded, we'll be storing up a lot of problems for the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: French police officers on patrol yesterday in Paris near the convention center where the international conference on European security is to open today. In the background was the Arc de Triomphe. (Agency France-Presse); map of Paris

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FINLAND (79%); ITALY (75%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ROME, ITALY (75%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLITICS (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (64%); TRADE DISPUTES (55%); ELECTION MONITORING (50%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



624 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: Despite Order, U.S. Stalls Aid to Poor Children

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Nine months after the Supreme Court ordered the Social Security Administration to stop denying benefits to poor children with severe physical and mental disabilities, hundreds of thousands of children have yet to receive assistance.
The Court held in February that for 16 years the Government had violated the law by paying Supplemental Security Income benefits only to poor children who met specific medical criteria, like deafness and severe mental retardation. The Justices said the criteria unfairly excluded many children with other disabilities, like Down's syndrome, muscular dystrophy, spina bifida, AIDS, cystic fibrosis and other chronic illnesses and birth defects. 
 But the Government, concerned that added costs could reach hundreds of millions of dollars a year, is insisting on a narrow interpretation of the ruling. The Social Security Administration, a unit of the Department of Health and Human Services, has yet to issue new permanent rules or standards for evaluating childhood disability. The Government said in May that it expected to issue the rules by Aug. 31.
 
Demand for Review of Files
 The Court decision was a major victory for advocates for the disabled. Community Legal Services Inc., a program for the poor in Philadelphia, had brought a class-action lawsuit on behalf of the disabled children who had applied for Federal benefits and were turned down.
Social Security officials are resisting plaintiffs' demands that they retrieve the files of all children denied benefits, so the evidence can be re-examined, and they have not yet sent notices to people who might qualify for assistance under the Court decision.
Senator John Heinz, a Pennsylvania Republican who has monitored Social Security disability programs for 10 years, said: "The harsh fact is that 500,000 children are no closer to justice in November than they were in February. Not one denial has been reversed, not one check mailed, not one child helped."
Social Security officials said they were eager to locate children eligible for benefits. Jean Hall Hinckley, director of the litigation support staff at Social Security headquarters, said the agency was "committed to effectuating all required relief in the most expeditious manner possible."
But she said the Government faced overwhelming administrative problems in carrying out "a court order unprecedented in scope." Mrs. Hinckley is responsible for coordinating Federal efforts to carry out the Court decision.
 
Frustration for Parents
 Under the Social Security Act, a child is eligible for benefits if the child suffers from an impairment of "comparable severity" to one that would prevent an adult from working. But the Court found that the Government often used a stricter test for children than for adults.
The Court said Social Security examiners could not disqualify children merely because they failed to meet the agency's list of medical criteria. Rather, it said, the Government must assess the impact of each child's handicap on the youngster's ability to perform "normal daily activities" like speaking, walking, washing and going to school.
For parents, the delays have meant a long and frustrating wait for benefits, accompanied by bewildering bureaucratic obstacles. Laura L. Sheeley of West Des Moines, Iowa, said she had been frustrated in efforts to get disability benefits for her 5-year-old daughter, Stephanie, who is mentally retarded and was born with curvature of the spine and clubfeet.
"The Government now acknowledges that Stephanie is eligible for disability benefits, but will not let me apply for payments owed to her for the period from July 1986 to June 1989," Ms. Sheeley said in an interview. In July of this year, she received a letter from the local office of the Social Security Administration saying "it will be quite some time" before Stephanie gets any assistance as a result of the Supreme Court decision. Ms. Sheeley said she was unemployed and had been receiving food stamps since Stephanie was born.
Earl A. Shoemaker of Iola, Wis., said he had been stymied in efforts to get six years' worth of benefits for his stepdaughter, Alicia M. Calkins, who has cerebral palsy and learning disabilities and needs surgery for congenital heart defects.
The girl's mother, Kate A. Shoemaker, said: "Social Security workers tell us that nothing has been decided and it could be a year before they know whether the Supreme Court decision applies to Alicia. We get no answers to any of our questions from Social Security."
Donna M. Lefebvre, a staff lawyer at Rural Legal Services of Tennessee, who has handled two dozen children's disability cases in the last two years, said: "I know there are good people in the Social Security Administration, trying to create humane regulations. But it does not translate into helping the children I see day to day. It's terribly frustrating because these kids need benefits.
"The Tennessee disability agency, under instructions from Social Security, is still applying Federal criteria in a narrow, restrictive way so that children are excluded, not included."
The Social Security Administration recently turned down a claim filed on behalf of a 12-year-old boy with muscular dystrophy, Michael W. Giles Jr. of Powell, Tenn., saying his condition was "not severe enough to be considered disabling." His mother, Theresa A. Giles, said that Social Security claims examiners had not met Michael but that she had seen him "suffer every day" as his condition deteriorated for three years.
The Supreme Court ruling could easily cost the Government several hundred million dollars a year in cash payments and Medicaid coverage for new beneficiaries. But no one can predict the cost with precision because it depends on many variables, including the starting date for eligibility and the number of claimants who can be found.
A White House official said this week, "Nobody in the Administration wants to hurt poor and disabled children, but we don't want to give them a financial windfall either." Back payments could average $10,000 to $15,000 a child, he said, and the Bush Administration wants to be sure the money goes to those who need it most.
Parents of disabled children and their lawyers say the Social Security claim files should be retrieved because they contain essential information: medical evidence of disability, family income data, and names and addresses that would help the Government track down people eligible for payments under the Supreme Court ruling.
But Mrs. Hinckley at the Social Security headquarters said it would be "inordinately burdensome" and "extremely costly" for the Government to retrieve the files. In addition, she said, some of the folders may have been lost or destroyed. Even if they can be located, she said, "the old files will not be useful" because they are outdated.
To fetch all the files would be a "massive undertaking," Mrs. Hinckley said, noting that the Government denied claims or terminated benefits for 283,360 children from May 1983 to February 1990.
The Supreme Court decision, Sullivan v. Zebley, affects a nationwide class of poor disabled people who were under 18 years old when they applied for benefits. Lawyers for the Government and the children disagree over how many youngsters should be allowed to take advantage of the ruling. The number would grow to 400,000 if the Government agreed to pay benefits to those denied aid since 1980. It would reach 600,000 if eligibility went back to the start of the program in 1974, as the plaintiffs want.
Supplemental Security Income is the only Federal program that provides cash assistance to children based on disability and financial need. The average benefit for disabled children is $331 a month. In most states, beneficiaries also automatically become eligible for Medicaid. The Medicaid coverage may be more valuable than the cash because disabled children often have huge medical bills.
In the past, children who were blind or deaf or mentally retarded, with an I.Q. of less than 60, could qualify for benefits relatively easily. But youngsters with more subtle or complicated impairments were often turned down.
In May, the Government and lawyers for disabled children agreed to an "interim standard" to be used in all new and pending cases. Under that standard, the Government must carefully assess each child's abilities.
 
No Appeal if Claim Denied
 The standard includes one highly unusual restriction on the rights of disabled children: If their claims are denied, they may not appeal to an administrative law judge or to a Federal court. That restriction was supposed to be temporary, until a permanent regulation was issued, but no such rule has yet been published.
Among those who have raised questions about Federal policy is Stephen C. King, son of Social Security Commissioner Gwendolyn S. King. In a law review article last year, he and Elizabeth J. Jameson, an expert on children's rights, said: "The Social Security Administration has a long and troubling history of refusing to follow adverse court decisions interpreting the Social Security Act. This refusal has had a severe impact on rejected applicants and terminated beneficiaries" in Social Security disability programs.
Jonathan M. Stein, general counsel of Community Legal Services of Philadelphia, said the Government seemed to be intent on providing "retroactive relief to as few children as possible."
He continued, "While the Government delays compliance with the Supreme Court decision, eligible children are being denied cash benefits and access to life-preserving medical care."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura L. Sheeley with her daughter, Stephanie, who is retarded and has a spinal deformity but gets no Social Security benefits. (Jeff Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (93%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (93%); COMMUNITY LEGAL SERVICES INC (55%); COMMUNITY LEGAL SERVICES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION; SUPREME COURT (US)

SUBJECT: HANDICAPPED; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FEDERAL AID (US); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS DISABLED PERSONS (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); CHILDREN (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); SPINA BIFIDA (73%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); DEAFNESS (73%); DOWN SYNDROME (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); GENETIC DISEASES (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); CHRONIC DISEASES (55%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (55%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



625 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: MARKET PLACE;
A.T.& T.'s Rivals Find Out Just How Big a Giant Can Be

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company has finally learned to throw its weight around effectively, battering the sales and stocks of United Telecom and MCI.
The first rival to suffer was U S Sprint, which said in mid-July that it would lay off 1,300 employees because its growth in the residential and small-business markets had slowed. As a result, shares of Sprint's parent, United Telecommunications Inc., dropped $12.50 in two days, to $25.75. 
 Now the MCI Communications Corporation, the No. 2 long-distance carrier behind A.T.&T., is also showing bruises. MCI announced layoffs on Thursday afternoon and told Wall Street analysts in the evening that its fourth-quarter sales might be smaller than those in the third quarter. MCI shares fell $1.875 on Thursday and $7.375 on Friday to close the week at $22.625.
Both companies are feeling the heat from A.T.&T.'s aggressive marketing and its offers of special discounts for big corporations.
Yet even A.T.&T. has its troubles, as a slowing economy makes it harder and harder for its huge equipment-manufacturing divisions to sell everything from multiple-line telephones for small businesses to central office switches for telephone companies. When A.T.&T. first announced these troubles on June 27, its stock fell nearly $4, to $37.625. Shares of both A.T.&T. and United Telecom have continued to slide over the last four months, slipping further on Friday in reaction to MCI's troubles.
And over the bitter legal and marketing struggles in the long-distance industry this year, there looms the specter of a recession that could, unlike previous downturns, depress overall revenues.
So, many of Wall Street's telephone industry analysts, who just last spring were strongly recommending all three stocks, have grown gloomy. "I really don't think there's any reason to buy any of these long-distance stocks," said Jack B. Grubman at Paine Webber.
In interviews, the chairmen of A.T.&T., MCI and United Telecom all played down the risks to their industry from a recession, while the chairmen of MCI and United Telecom also minimized the extent of their current problems.
William G. McGowan, the chairman and chief executive of MCI, appeared to backpedal in an interview on Friday afternoon from his subordinates' warnings to analysts the night before that the company's revenues could shrink in the current quarter. It is too early to reach such a conclusion, he said, and the fourth quarter is usually weak anyway because of slow corporate business at Christmas.
"We certainly don't see any cause for alarms about it at this point," Mr. McGowan said.
MCI acquired Telecom USA on Aug. 14, so that Telecom's sales, about a ninth of MCI's last year, were only partly included in the third-quarter results but will be fully included in the fourth quarter. The prospect that MCI's sales might shrink in the quarter, even with Telecom sales included, particularly alarmed analysts. It suggested that after years in which sales grew at twice the industry's pace, MCI's growth in market share might have stopped.
Mr. McGowan said that it was too soon for analysts to reach such a conclusion and that MCI still might continue to gain market share. "They're kind of overworking the subject of how the pie is being divvied up," he said.
William T. Esrey, the chairman and chief executive of United Telecom, said on Saturday that U S Sprint was continuing to gain market share slowly, although it had been hurt by A.T.&T.'s lavish marketing campaign in the last few months. But he said some investors had been slow to realize that the days of big gains at A.T.&T.'s expense were over.
"There are still people around who still see this as a rocket shot to the moon," he said. "They're expecting 35 to 40 percent growth rates."
Two basic changes in the long-distance industry, widely mentioned but seldom seen in a broader context, have allowed A.T.&T. to reassert itself.
One is that competition has driven down the prices of calls on all three long-distance companies to levels fairly close to their costs. MCI and U S Sprint, which have lower costs, continue to charge less than A.T.&T., but the difference is less striking than it used to be.
This has meant that customer service, advertising campaigns and direct marketing have become much more important. And A.T.&T. has an enormous advantage there. Each dollar the company spends on television and newspaper advertisements to retain old customers and win new ones can be spread over a base that is five times as large as MCI's and seven times as large as U S Sprint's.
On the other hand, A.T.&T.'s huge market share meant that it gave up five to seven times as much revenue as its rivals during each round of price cuts.
A.T.&T. has about 70 percent of the long-distance market, MCI has 14 percent and U S Sprint 10 percent. More than 200 small companies share the remaining 6 percent of the $55-billion market.
A.T.&T.'s current marketing success could backfire because the company has been asking for fewer regulations on the grounds that it is no longer a monopoly.
The other big change was the decision of the Federal Communications Commission nearly three years ago to allow A.T.&T. to charge its biggest corporate and institutional customers much less for a package of services than the cost of the services bought separately at regulated rates. A.T.&T. has since signed 77 such contracts, worth an estimated $1 billion a year, and is signing up more customers despite a recent Federal appeals court decision questioning the legality of the F.C.C.'s decision.
The F.C.C. moved on Nov. 8 to allow four more bulk discount contracts, a decision that Mr. Esrey called a surprise.
The large contracts typically include not just volume discounts to certain area codes but also features like allowing an office worker to dial a four- or five-digit number and reach a colleague down the hallway or on another continent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Daily close of MCI on N.Y.S.E. for 1990 (Source: Datastream) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (94%); VZ (NYSE) (94%); S (NYSE) (93%); T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (94%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (93%); AT&T INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); UNITED TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC; MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; SALES; STOCKS (CORPORATE) TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (85%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



626 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN EUROPE;
The Legacy of Helsinki

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Fifteen years ago last August, the leaders of the 35 members of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, meeting in Helsinki, signed a document called a Final Act that recognized the inviolability of the boundaries forcibly redrawn in World War II.
 The Soviet Union and its allies were confident that the Helsinki accords would indeed be a final act, setting the seal on the legitimacy of Communist domination of Eastern Europe and the Baltic nations. 
 Instead, the accords helped seal its doom.
On Monday, the leaders of the participating countries, 34 of them now, will meet again in Paris, this time to ratify a redrawing of the map that nobody expected so soon. The unexpected triumph of anti-Communist and democratic movements in Eastern Europe, encouraged by commitments to human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Helsinki accords that their Communist signers never dreamed of taking seriously, produced the reunification of Germany on Oct. 3.
 
A Less Predictable Future
 Now, seeking to make the future more predictable, the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia and even the new, united Germany are pressing to expand the conference into a new, nonconfrontational security structure for Europe to replace the moribund Warsaw Pact and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
But with economic chaos and political disintegration threatening to overwhelm the Soviet Union, and conflict among nationalities and ethnic groups rising all over Eastern Europe, the future is less predictable than ever. The possibility of a large-scale and destructive war in the Persian Gulf adds further to the uncertainty and to doubts that the security conference can fill a wider role.
But the process the conference began in Helsinki in 1975 has often produced momentous surprises. Erich Honecker, the Communist leader of East Germany, said confidently then of the Final Act, "Inviolability of frontiers is the decisive point."
He and other Communist leaders agreed to pledges to uphold the "universal significance of human rights and fundamental freedoms" and to let people travel freely, associate with each other as they wished and enjoy the benefits of free and wide dissemination of information, apparently regarding them as mere empty words.
"It is only the people of each given state, and no one else, that has the sovereign right to resolve its internal affairs and establish its internal laws," said Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet leader at the time.
Conservatives and emigre groups in the United States and elsewhere took him at his word, and charged that Helsinki was a retreat by the West, selling out the freedom of the peoples of Eastern Europe and the Baltic countries annexed by Stalin in 1939.
 
'Helsinki Groups' Blossom
 But the Helsinki conference soon had profoundly far-reaching results, not only in Eastern Europe but in the Soviet Union. All over the Communist empire, "Helsinki groups" of democrats and dissidents soon sprang up and demanded, with Western support, that Communist governments live up to their pledges on freedom and human rights.
Their leaders -- Andrei D. Sakharov in Moscow, Vaclav Havel of Charter 77 in Prague and others like Lech Walesa of Solidarity in Poland -- were exiled, arrested or imprisoned. But a decade and a half later those movements produced the democratic nucleus that came to power, in Eastern Europe at least, when the Communist regimes collapsed.
Institutionally, the security conference played no role at all in the revolutions of Eastern Europe, nor could it.
But some important European countries now want it to take over the role of guaranteeing European security that the United States and most of its allies assume only NATO can play.
"The question is whether Europe still needs a stabilizing, anchoring influence, and whether the United States has to participate to provide it," a NATO official in Brussels said. The United States and its allies will try to renegotiate the political consensus within the alliance over the next several years, following their pledge at the London NATO summit last July to transform it.
"Europe has changed in a dramatic way," said Pierre Schori, Cabinet secretary in the Swedish Foreign Ministry in Stockholm. "The summit in Paris is a turning point, with a consensus for the first time ever on the rule of law and democracy by all the European nations, and the signing of the world's largest-ever disarmament agreement."
 
A Nonaggression Pledge
 This, the treaty on conventional forces in Europe, will be signed in Paris on Monday, accompanied by a mutual nonaggression pledge by the 16 NATO members and the 6 remaining Warsaw Pact countries that negotiated it. The pact sets drastically lower limits on military forces in both halves of Europe, requiring deeper cuts by the Soviet Union than by the United States.
But in effect it only sets down on paper what the revolutions in Eastern Europe achieved on the ground last year, since the Warsaw Pact has all but collapsed and Soviet forces in Eastern Europe were being asked to leave anyway by the middle of this decade.
But the Soviet Union, assuming it can hold together, does not want to be shut out of Europe strategically, and thus sees the security conference as a way to stay in. Neutral countries like Sweden also see it as a way of moving closer. "The gulf crisis has given an out-of-area dimension to the process," Mr. Schori asserted. What he meant was that, like most members of the United Nations Security Council, all the security conference foreign ministers meeting at the United Nations in October were united in condemning Iraq's invasion and annexation of Kuwait and in demanding a withdrawal.
But a high-level international floating crap game like the security conference will never be an effective guarantee against such aggression in the future, American officials argue, noting that even NATO, with a charter most of its members construe as being limited to Europe and the North Atlantic, has played only a limited role in the military response to the gulf crisis.
The meeting in Paris this week will be the last in which the security conference is without a permanent home. From now on, the 34 foreign ministers will meet at least once yearly, with summit meetings every two years, and more often if necessary. The meeting here is expected to approve a small, permanent conference secretariat and a headquarters for it in Prague. A separate Conflict Prevention Center in Vienna will also be established for exchanges on military questions, an office for supervising democratic elections will be set up, possibly in Warsaw, and a legislative Assembly of Europe will be established in Strasbourg.
Skeptics of a greater security role for the conference like the United States and British Governments see a more useful mission for it in strengthening the commitments of all member countries to freedom, the commitments that started the ball rolling in 1975.
"We must not make the mistake of thinking that the Helsinki accords and the C.S.C.E. can provide a substitute for NATO," Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said in Helsinki a few weeks ago. "One day it may be possible to think of a single security organization for Europe. But that day is still long distant."
Mrs. Thatcher proposed that the Paris meeting agree on "a European Magna Carta which would entrench for the whole of Europe the rights, freedoms and rule of law which we in the West take for granted."
That, according to diplomats in Stockholm, Vienna, London and Paris, is more or less what the communique on Wednesday will do. And that, from 1975 on into the next century, may be the enduring legacy of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); FINLAND (97%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (88%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (97%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE; WARSAW PACT (1955); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WORLD WAR II (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); ETHNICITY (65%); ETHNIC GROUPS (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



627 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
U.S. Export Ban Hurting Makers Of New Devices to Code Messages

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
Advances in technology have created coding devices small enough to be placed on computer chips, allowing even desktop computers to code and decode material at a relatively small cost. And there is a growing appetite for such equipment among many companies and government agencies in the United States and abroad.
Many American companies are eager to battle for foreign customers. But the National Security Agency is determined to retain strict barriers to the export of such equipment because it does not have a practical way of cracking the codes.
 
Vast Electronic Net
 The agency, which is responsible for intelligence gathering and the security of military and Government computers, spreads a vast electronic net around the globe, eavesdropping on telephone, radio and computer data with the assistance of allied governments. In events like the shooting down of Korean Airlines flight 007 and the discovery of West German sales of chemical warfare manufacturing equipment to Libya, American electronic intelligence-gathering provided crucial data for Government officials. 
 So the agency is dismayed at advances in technology that have created chip-sized coding devices. That allows even desktop computers to code and decode material at a relatively small cost. In the past, such coding and decoding required more powerful, more expensive computers.
The codes involve translating a message into a string of numbers, which is then disguised by multiplying it by other numbers. The key to retrieving the message involves knowing the numbers by which the message was multiplied.
Banks routinely use coded messages to transfer money electronically around the world, and that use is not restricted by the National Security Agency or other Government agencies. But many companies and Government agencies would like to encode telephone conversations and data communications about sensitive matters.
While the security agency has no authority over how such technology is used in the United States -- where it is increasingly employed by corporations and Government agencies -- American intelligence officials have said privately that the security agency is determined to prevent the export of equipment that would make its work more difficult.
Asked to comment on the agency's approach to exports of coding equipment, a spokeswoman said in a written response: "Licenses for this equipment are reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine the effect export could have on national security."
 
 Curbs Called a Burden
 That puts the Government at odds with major American computer and software companies, which say the restrictions are a significant handicap in international markets. They also argue that the restrictions are quickly becoming meaningless, because a number of companies in Britain, Japan and elsewhere are now selling such equipment.
"The agency is acting on ill-conceived good intentions," said Albert R. Belisle, chairman of the information systems security committee of the American Banking Association.
And Stephen D. Bryen, a former Pentagon export control official and president of Secured Communications Technologies Inc., a maker of computer security equipment, said, "This is cutting off your nose to spite your face." His company was recently denied a request to export a personal-computer encrypting system.
At the International Business Machines Corporation, executives spent almost a year unsuccessfully trying to persuade the agency to permit it to export a special encryption processor designed to work with its System 390 family of mainframe computers.
"We are concerned that we are not able to better respond to our customers' needs," said Edward B. Altman, I.B.M.'s director of technical strategy development.
 
 Different Channels
 Export license applications for data encryption equipment go through channels different from those of other computer equipment, which is reviewed by the Commerce Department. Coding equipment must be cleared by the State Department's Office of Munitions Control and the National Security Agency, and there is no right of appeal.
In August 1989, control over exports of some less important encryption software and hardware was transferred from the Office of Munitions Control to the Commerce Department. The equipment affected includes encryption technology used in message-authentication systems, access-control equipment, software-protection systems and automatic teller devices.
But many categories remain under the control of the State Department and the National Security Agency, including not just sophisticated coding equipment but also mass-market software, analog television descramblers, voice scramblers, smart cards -- wallet-sized cards with a small computer -- and related equipment.
In some cases, the restrictions force companies to produce incompatible versions of their products for domestic and international sale.
"United States' vendors cannot design, manufacture and market a secure version within the U.S. and an insecure version outside of the U.S. without inviting the ire of many, if not most, foreign customers," said Robert Courtney, a computer security consultant.
Computer security researchers say the agency's intransigence has hurt progress on new security technology in the United States. "If it were not for export controls, the quality of computer security systems would be dramatically better than it is today in the United States," said Steven Walker, president of Trusted Information Systems Inc., a software company.
He said that by crippling the effectiveness of American computer security exports, the Government is discouraging foreign buyers and taking away incentives to design more secure equipment by making it necessary to maintain two incompatible product lines.
The security researchers also argue that the dispute is leading to a growing gap between the National Security Agency and the commercial computer security community in the United States.
"I don't think they really realize the extent of the problem," Mr. Courtney said. "The problem is not that the walls have ears, it's that the ears have walls."
Government officials in other agencies argue that the security agency's resistance is doing severe damage to United States interests abroad because it leaves American companies vulnerable to industrial espionage. "Industrial espionage is a real thing and encryption is a very important feature," said one official. "But it's not permitted because the N.S.A. wants to read everything."
 
Software Publishers Curbed
 The encryption regulations also place strict limits on American software publishers, who are trying to improve the security of their products. The N.S.A., for example, told the Lotus Development Corporation that the security protection program in its Notes software, an innovative application that permits large work groups to share information, would have to be weakened substantially in the version to be sold internationally.
"It puts us in an awkward marketing position," said Eric Sall, the director of application marketing for Notes. "We don't publicize the fact that security is weaker outside of the United States."
The national standard encryption system used by banks and the Government is called the Data Encryption Standard, or D.E.S. While the specifications are widely available in public literature, equipment that uses the standard is controlled under International Traffic in Arms Regulations maintained by the State Department, which permits exceptions to the export limits only for some international banking activities.
 
Breaking the Code
 One issue that security experts have debated is whether the National Security Agency can decipher material coded to the D.E.S. Despite years of speculation by computer scientists and cryptologists, there has never been a public demonstration of D.E.S. vulnerability.
"The academic community has spent 20 years looking at it and they haven't found a way to break it yet," said John Nagle, a computer researcher in Menlo Park, Calif.
Scientists have suggested D.E.S. might be broken by using brute force, computing power that could test each of the vast number of possible "keys" used to encode information.
While computer security experts have long considered the security agency one of the few organizations with enough computing power to try such an approach, the agency's stance on export controls suggests that such code-breaking is not feasible technologically or economically.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLERS (56%); AMERICAN COMPUTER INNOVATORS (51%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (NSA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NATIONAL SECURITY INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ESPIONAGE (76%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (64%); AIRLINES (54%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



628 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
The National Security Agency wants to retain strict barriers to the export of coding devices, despite growing demand from companies and government agencies in the U.S. and abroad. Because of new technology, these devices are now small enough to be placed on computer chips, allowing even desktop computers to code and decode material at a relatively small cost. But the agency does not have a practical way of cracking the codes. [Page A1.]
The slump in commercial real estate is likely to get worse before it gets better, real estate executives and bankers people say. Many of these experts say they think prices of commercial property will fall sharply in the next two to three years and will not recover for four to five years. [D1.]
 
COMPANIES
Partners of Laventhol & Horwath voted to disband the firm and seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, former partners said. The nation's seventh-largest accounting firm held a hastily arranged weekend meeting in Houston. [D1.]
Dairy Queen is about to face heavy competition as McDonald's focuses on expanding into the smaller towns where Dairy Queen has been strong. [D1.]
The $4.5 billion claim filed against Drexel Burnham Lambert by Columbia Savings and Loan of Beverly Hills, Calif., provides the first look at Drexel's purported manipulation of the securities markets through the eyes of a big "junk bond" customers. [D1.]
MCA has enlisted some of Washington's heavy hitters to promote its possible sale to Matsushita Electric. [D1.]
The failure of Freedom National Bank may cost some charities hundreds of thousands of dollars because they maintained separate large accounts in the bank and had thought the accounts were protected by Federal deposit insurance. The F.D.I.C. chairman said the insurance applies to aggregate deposits, not individual ones. [B1.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
Poland's program to replace Communism with capitalism has slashed inflation, stabilized the nation's currency and made food lines a thing of the past. But the program now faces one of its biggest tests: reversing a huge drop in economic output. [D6.]
 
MEDIA BUSINESS
The founder of Ebony and Jet magazines is a leading pioneer in black entrepreneurship. But at age 72, John H. Johnson is becoming less optimistic about the opportunities for blacks. [D8.]
Reduced advertising and tough economic conditions at newspapers appear to be hurting the industrywide effort to hire more minority journalists. [D8.]
Simon & Schuster touched on issues that publishers rarely address any more when it canceled the book "American Psycho." Edwin McDowell: Publishing. [D8.]
Each of the four million copies of Time this week will have the name of an individual subscriber on the cover. [D8.]
Anheuser-Busch plans a series of Super Bowl commercials, for the third consecutive year, depicting the Bud Bowl, a comical football game played by bottles of Budweiser beer. In a new twist, a new brand, Bud Dry, may make an appearance. Advertising. [D7.]
TODAY'S COLUMNS
A.T.&T. has finally learned to throw its weight around effectively, battering the sales and the stocks of United Telecom and MCI. The latest evidence came on Friday when MCI's stock price plunged $7.375. Market Place. [D1.]
The downturn in the economy has eased the labor shortage for entry-level and low-wage jobs. Job applications are rising and hourly wages, which had inched up to more than $6 an hour in some areas, have leveled off. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
The steep slide in interest rates in the last six weeks is probably over, analysts say. In the next breath, however, they say they expect further declines before the year's end. Credit Markets. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BUD (PAR) (50%); BUD (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (53%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (55%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (53%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (50%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (84%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); BONDS (76%); BANK FAILURES (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); FAST FOOD (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); SPORTS MARKETING (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (68%); WRITERS (65%); PUBLISHING (65%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (53%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



629 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
Secretary of State James Baker met with the Soviet Foreign Minister, who said Moscow had not yet reached a final decision to back a U.N. resolution authorizing the use of military force in the Persian Gulf. Page A1
How to wage war against Iraq is emerging as a contentious issue. Military strategists see four basic outlines ranging from a limited air assault to an air and ground war. All options are disputed. A1
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany offered only lukewarm support to the Persian Gulf strategy of President Bush. Mr. Kohl referred repeatedly to the idea of conducting "negotiations" with Iraq. A12
War is unneeded, Gorbachev states A13
Iraqi leader promises to free hostages by spring A12
New analysis: The Helsinki accords signed 15 years ago were meant to seal the borders of Europe into East and West. Now, as the member states meet again in Paris, it appears as if the accord helped those borders to unravel. A1
An extraordinary meeting in Paris begins today as leaders from 34 nations gather to celebrate the end ofthe division in Europe and to design ways of guaranteeing peace and democracy in a continent twice ravaged by world war this century. A6
A major question haunting Soviet life presents itself at customs posts that have opened up in localities within the country: In the new parade of sovereignities now hobbling the Soviet empire, who is really in charge? A9
Soviet press welcomes plan to shuffle powers A8
The Polish presidential election has fielded a dark-horse candidate: a wealthy Polish-born emigre businessman from Canada who operates a cable television system in Peru. A8
A Yugoslav republic holds a contested electionA7
Angry crowd tells Bulgaria government to step down A9
Margaret Thatcher of Britain, although fighting for her political life, will continue to oppose a single European currency and central bank and might put the matter directly to the voters in a national referendum. A3
Censure vote may topple government in France A3
Sikh militants ignore new premier's plea for peace A5
 
 National A14-16, B7-10
Governors who ousted incumbents on anti-tax, anti-incumbent platforms now face the challenge of delivering on their promises in hard fiscal times. For Governor-elect John Engler of Michigan and others, that will not be an easy task. A1
Scores of poor handicapped children have yet to receive any assistance nine months after the Supreme Court ordered the Social Security Administration to stop denying them benefits. The affected children have severe mental and physical disabilities. A1
Small and cheap coding devices have made it possible for even desktop computers to code and decode confidential material. The National Security Agency wants to keep strict limits on exports of the devices. A1
The U.S. Supreme Court continued a ruling that temporarily bars the Cable News Network from broadcasting taped telephone conversations between Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega and his legal defense team. A14
The choice of William J. Bennett as Republican national chairman grew out of the President's judgment that the party needed a high-profile lightning rod rather than a low-key strategist to rescue it, officials said. A16
Florida's defeated governor may become drug war chief A16
F.B.I. breaks drug ring that buried cash in Puerto Rico A16
Marijuana farms go below ground B7
Search of lake ends mystery of missing executive A14
Two soldiers and two civilians arrested in theft of weapons B8
 Former President Jimmy Carter has risen in public esteem in recent years. At a conference to assess his presidency, he was praised for moral leadership, for rejecting politics as usual and for recognizing many of the nation's longterm problems. A14
Reporter's notebook: Sabbath observance in many forms B7
In Los Angeles, a chance at spotlight for Hispanic candidates B8
The slump in commercial real estate is almost certain to get worse before it gets better, experts said. In a survey, real estate executives predicted that prices would fall sharply in the next two to three years and might not recover for four or five years. D1
 
 Regional B1-6
News analysis: The budget cuts proposed by Governor Cuomo represent a drastic policy shift for his administration, which is being guided by a grim new set of economic and political concerns. A1
Agreement and discord on Cuomo cuts B6
More painful cuts for New York City B6
An overhaul of the election system in New York State will become a legislative priority next year, linked to the reapportionment of legislative and congressional districts, Governor Cuomo said. B1
Freedom National Bank's failure may cost charitable organizations that held more than one account there hundreds of thousands of dollars that the groups had thought was protected by Federal deposit insurance. B1
New Jerseyans are expressing rage and confusion about their Governor,the economy and the future of a state that until recently seemed full of optimism. "Our glory days are over," one state senator said. B1
Weicker faces a growing budget gap and a decision on taxes B4
The death of a child raises questions that have become familiar about caseworkers who appear to have acted at cross purposes, city agencies apparently oblivious of each other and how concerned people failed to save 8-year-old Yaakov Riegler. B3
The Nuyorican Poets' Cafe on the Lower East Side once served a select few: young angry Puerto Rican poets. Now the cafe has reopened, and the Nuyorican movement is drawing creative types from all over. B1
Youths criticize the media at a conference B2
 
Business Digest D1
 
 SportsMonday
Basketball: Nets' road losing streak at 32 C5
Column: Anderson on Giants C2
Features: Question Box C5
Football: Giants go 10-0 C1
49ers keep rolling along C2
Jets' late letdown leads to defeat C4
Good start for Cornell coach C7
Hockey: Devils beat Flyers again C6
Outdoors: Fond fishing tale C11
Tennis: Seles tops Sabatini C1
Agassi tops Edberg for title C6
Track and Field: Ben Johnson's return C1
 
Arts/Entertainment
French films in Florida C13
TV's experiments fail C13
Theater: Topol's "Fiddler" C13
Music: New York Philharmonic C14
A caveman's sensibility C14
Sandra King sings 30's songs C20 The Orford Quartet C15
Dance: Codanceco and the flag C18
Word and Image:Study of women in television C18
Writers hiring their own editors C20
The Group Theater's story C20
 
Obituaries D11
 
Dr. Robert Hofstadter, Nobel laureate in physics
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A18
Will peace be spelled C.S.C.E.?
Denouncing torture
Defend the schools, credibly
Topics: Primeval Hollywood
Letters A18
William Safire: Not oil nor jobs A19
Anthony Lewis: Time to go A19
Peregrine Worsthorne: Britain still needs the Iron Lady A19
Elaine Ciulla Kamarck, William A. Galston: Children at risk A19
Roger Fontaine, William Ratliff: In Cuba, bulls for tractors? A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GULF STATES (88%); BULGARIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FINLAND (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: SECURITY AGENCY FENIX AS (51%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); COUPS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (65%); REFERENDUMS (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); GOVERNORS (58%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (50%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



630 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Faltering Laventhol Is Reportedly Closing

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
The roughly 350 partners of Laventhol & Horwath voted over the weekend at a hastily arranged emergency meeting to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and disband the firm, former Laventhol partners said last night.
A Laventhol spokesman, Louis J. Grossman, declined to comment yesterday on "any of the business plans discussed at the meeting." Laventhol partners were traveling home from Houston, where the meeting was held, and did not return telephone messages seeking comment. 
 Laventhol, the nation's seventh-largest accounting firm, has been under financial strain because of several lawsuits that accused the firm of having done poor work on a number of audits and consulting projects. For instance, the firm is defending itself in a multimillion-dollar lawsuit in Charlotte, N.C., over its audit of the P.T.L. ministry of Jim Bakker.
Laventhol, which is based in Philadelphia, recently cut its employees' pay by 10 percent. It has been struggling to stay in business until December, when audits at the end of the year push up billings and provide cash.
But a weak economy and the costly litigation have prevented a comeback for the firm, which has had $350 million in revenues in recent years. In interviews, former partners, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity, have painted a grim picture of a firm that is experiencing a severe cash shortage.
Still, few accountants had expected the firm, which specializes in advising the lodging industry, to take such drastic action. "This will be a shock to the industry," said Anthony G. Marshall, dean of the School of Hospitality Management at Florida International University. "The name Horwath, going back to the days of Horwath and Horwath, was just it. They were the best in the business."
Richard A. Eisner, the head of a New York accounting firm that bears his name, said the liquidation of a professional services firm like Laventhol was never easy to carry out. "This is really going to be a mess," he said.
"Finley, Kumble was nothing compared to this," he added, referring to the big New York law firm that was disbanded in 1987 but remains the subject of considerable litigation, "because it was much smaller in revenues and people."
The days leading up to Laventhol's vote to seek bankruptcy protection have not been easy. Active partners took home next to nothing after hospitalization and life insurance premiums were deducted from their October pay, said one former partner, who also disclosed the results of the weekend meeting.
 
Payments and Padlocks
 Laventhol had considered deferring all payments to retired partners until next year, an idea of Robert N. Levine, the firm's chief executive since June. After some discussion, the firm sent checks this month representing only 20 percent of the normal payout to them, the former partner said.
The firm also appears to be calling in loans it has made to partners, some of the former partners said, forcing at least two people to put their homes on the market to avoid personal bankruptcy.
Another former partner said the firm's New York landlord briefly padlocked the New York offices last Monday out of fear that the firm would not pay its rent. "It was a fairly embarrassing situation," the former partner said.
A senior official of Fisher Brothers, the owner of the firm's main New York offices at 605 Third Avenue, could not be reached yesterday, but has previously declined to comment about the accounting firm.
 
A 'Normal' Meeting
 Even the meeting in Houston became a humbling symbol of the firm's undoing. In an interview on Friday, Mr. Grossman, the Laventhol spokesman, called the gathering "our normal annual partners meeting covering normal business issues."
But former partners said the meeting was far from routine.
Past partners' meetings have been held at locations like the Boca Raton Hotel and Resort in Florida, the Doral Hotel in Miami Beach and the Pointe resorts in Phoenix.
This year, the former partners say, Laventhol was going to skip the event to cut costs. Then, when it had to reschedule the meeting to address several pressing problems, it arranged for it to be held at the Houston Airport Marriott. Partners were told to charge the trip on their own credit cards, the former partners said.
In a break from previous years, at least two dissident candidates sought seats on the firm's board this year. Before the meeting, Sol Reibstein of Philadelphia and Howard Silberman of Los Angeles had each collected the signatures of at least 5 percent of the partnership, the minimum needed to get on the ballot along with the board's nominees.
 
Many Defections
 In recent weeks, partners have been leaving the firm in large numbers. At least a half-dozen offices around the country, including those in San Francisco and Kansas City, Mo., are said to have explored splitting off from the national firm. All the firm's consultants on the lodging industry, considered Laventhol's hallmark, are talking about going off on their own.
The proposal that appeared to have the best chance of saving Laventhol was one that was believed to have the support of the firm's lenders at the Fidelity Bank in Philadelphia and the Chase Manhattan Bank. The two banks are part of a consortium that is owed roughly $80 million. Their plan would have required the firm, which has about 50 offices around the country, to shed all but 25 to 30 of them.
The sale of the offices to the departing partners or to others would have raised cash to repay debt, while the remaining offices would have continued to service Laventhol's clients at least through the 1990-91 auditing season.
The proposal apparently fell apart because the banks wanted Laventhol's partners to each invest $75,000 in the firm, a former partner said.
 
Looking Ahead
 In the next few weeks, rather than prepare year-end audits, Laventhol faces the task of trying to unravel an operation that took 23 years to build. The firm is planning to fire employees on Tuesday, and partners will be invited to buy their local practices, a former partner said.
In addition, the firm's few remaining prestigious clients are scrambling to line up new auditors before they close their books for the year. For instance, Trans World Airlines Inc., the firm's biggest client, is expected to hire Grant Thornton or BDO Seidman, both mid-sized firms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (63%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: YORK LAW FIRM (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LAVENTHOL & HORWATH

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LODGING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



631 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Stocks Finish Higher

BYLINE: REUTERS

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Tokyo stock prices closed higher today, supported by lower oil prices and news that Saddam Hussein of Iraq would begin releasing hostages on Christmas Day.
The key 225-share Nikkei index had gained 346.53 points, or 1.5 percent, to 23,518.16. It ended the morning session up 174.11 points, or less than half a percent, to 23,345.74, with 180 millon shares changing hands. On Friday, the Nikkei fell 315.85 points, or 1.3 percent.
Traders said after the morning session that Friday's cut in the United States Federal funds rate helped the market. The rate is what banks charge each other on overnight loans to meet reserve requirements.
They said, however, that the market was facing stop-loss selling by institutional investors who had bought stocks six months ago when the Nikkei was in the 30,000's and rising.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (87%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); BONDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERBANK LENDING (67%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



632 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Study Attacks Women's Roles in TV

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Network television continues to give women fewer leading roles, both on and off screen, than it gives men, says a study released this week that analyzed on-screen portrayals and employment behind the camera during the 1989-90 television season.
Despite some exceptions, the study says, women are often still depicted on television as half-clad and half-witted, and needing to be rescued by quick-thinking, fully clothed men. 
 "The distorted TV picture of women has consequences for viewers, especially girls, who see fewer choices for themselves on screen," said Cindy Marano, director of the National Commission on Working Women, a Washington-based private advocacy group for women in nonprofessional occupations. The commission co-sponsored the study, "What's Wrong With This Picture?," with Women in Film, a nonprofit Los Angeles-based group working to improve the position and depiction of women in television and film. The study received financing from the Ford Foundation and the Tides Foundation.
 
An 'Unacceptable' Picture
 The yearlong study looked at 555 characters on 80 network shows that were broadcast in March and April, as well as employment statistics for the entire September-through-April season.
The study found that women still lagged far behind men in employment. Women made up 15 percent of producers, 25 percent of writers and 9 percent of directors of shows surveyed. About 40 percent of all series surveyed hired no female producers; 54 percent had no female directors.
"The overall picture is unacceptable," said Marcy Kelly, president of Women in Film, at a news conference here on Wednesday. Studies of television movies and feature films are planned, she said.
 
Inconsistent With Demographics
 The study also found that in the prime-time shows shown on ABC , CBS , NBC and the Fox Broadcasting Company, women held 43 percent of the roles. Their characters were typically richer than male characters were and were rarely depicted at all after the age of 40. Such portrayals fail to reflect real demographic trends in population, age and economic, the study says.
The show with the highest percentage of female producers, with 75 percent, was CBS's "Sugar 'n' Spice," which has been canceled. ABC's "Just the Ten of Us" had the poorest record, with no women as writers, producers or directors.
Fox had the best record of buying shows that employed high percentages of female directors, producers and writers, the study says. A Fox spokesman, Dennis Petrosky, said, "While we may be better by comparison, we still don't think it's good enough, and we hope to do better."
Shows on ABC ranked last in employing women in all three occupations. Jim Brochu, an ABC spokesman, said: "We wouldn't comment on that. We don't do the hiring; we only license shows. Talk to the producers."
Irma Kalish, executive producer of NBC's "Hogan Family," said Mr. Brochu's argument was specious because the networks control and approve nearly all of the creative employees on each pilot and series. "That's where it starts," she said at the news conference.
In August, a membership study by the Screen Actors Guild found that actresses continued to work less and earn less than men in films, television and commercials. And an article in The Los Angeles Times on Nov. 11 said that not one woman was currently in a position to give final approval to start production of a film.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMISSION ON WORKING WOMEN; WOMEN IN FILM (ORGN) WOMEN IN FILM; 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; LABOR TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); WOMEN (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (73%); RANKINGS (73%); FILM (73%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



633 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
Time to Go

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Two great bugaboos have sapped Britain's strength since World War II. One was the fear of encrusted trade unions, the belief that there was no way to break their strangling grip on industry. The other was the fear of losing "sovereignty" to the European Community.
Margaret Thatcher conquered the first. She challenged the unions, broke their power and freed Britain from their obsolete work rules and political strikes. 
 But the second baseless fear had, and has, Mrs. Thatcher in its grip. In her paranoia about Europe she has weakened her Government and divided her party. Now she is herself on the edge of a political abyss.
This week the Conservative Party holds a ballot on its leadership. For the first time since she became Prime Minister in 1979, Mrs. Thatcher faces a serious challenger, Michael Heseltine. She may survive, but she will be wounded.
Issues other than Europe will concern Conservative members of Parliament as they choose a leader. British voters are livid at a poll tax that Mrs. Thatcher introduced. Inflation is running at nearly 11 percent, three times the figure in Germany or France.
But Europe is the issue that brought Mrs. Thatcher to this moment of crisis. She did it to herself -- unnecessarily, one would almost say irrationally. In doing so she showed how powerful is the preoccupation with "sovereignty" that has bedeviled British politics for 40 years. I put the word in quotation marks because it has come to have mythic qualities.
Think about the point that Mrs. Thatcher has made her rallying cry against Europe in recent months: Britain's sovereign right to have its own monetary policy. She has been resisting the Community's movement toward a European central bank and, eventually, a European currency.
But the idea of Britain having independent monetary power is a myth. The Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, already calls the tune for Britain as for all of Western Europe. The real choice is between that situation and a European bank in which Britain would at least have a voice.
The reality of monetary policy in Europe is a metaphor for the larger reality. Britain can do very little on its own these days. In isolation from the Community it would sink into economic irrelevance. Even its outstanding asset, the financial operations centered in London, would surely move to Frankfurt.
The myth of sovereignty kept Britain out of the European Community when it was formed. And successive Prime Ministers have preferred to cozy up to U.S. Presidents, playing Greece -- as they thought -- to America's Rome. Mrs. Thatcher very much fancies herself in that special relationship.
But it is an unequal relationship, doomed by facts. How can the United States put an alliance with Britain ahead of its relationship with the increasingly dominant European power, Germany?
In the end Mrs. Thatcher miscalculated with her most faithful colleague, Sir Geoffrey Howe, the last remaining member of her original Cabinet. Sir Geoffrey is a quiet man, extraordinarily patient, but his patience broke as the Prime Minister's invective at Europe grew ever shriller. He resigned and, last week, made a remarkable speech of explanation to the House of Commons.
"The Prime Minister's perceived attitude toward Europe is running increasingly serious risks for the future of the nation," he said. "We paid heavily in the past for late starts and squandered opportunities in Europe. We dare not let that happen again." He said Britain must not "retreat into a ghetto of sentimentality about our past and so diminish our own control over our own destiny in the future."
Mrs. Thatcher has always had a rather low opinion of her political colleagues, treating them as if she were their governess. But there was an exception: Lord Carrington, Foreign Secretary until he gallantly resigned to take responsibility for the Falkland Islands policy failure that led to war.
Lord Carrington had a way with Margaret Thatcher. He persuaded her to adopt a policy on Rhodesia that succeeded in producing the transition to an independent Zimbabwe. I think he would have helped her to see reason on Europe.
Without Lord Carrington, Mrs. Thatcher grew more arrogant. She could not even see that at this moment in history, with change in the air, there is an extraordinary opportunity to help build a new Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) MARGARET THATCHER (93%); MICHAEL RAY DIBDIN HESELTINE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



634 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Not Oil Nor Jobs

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Soon after America stepped up to its responsibility in the Persian Gulf, Senator Bob Dole -- ever the cynic, and a prime appeaser of Saddam Hussein -- spelled out the motive he saw behind our action: "O-I-L."
A hundred days later, with Americans still denied the articulation of a purpose worthy of fighting for, James Baker, ever the pragmatist, and the architect of the appeasement of the Iraqi dictator, came up with his own equally short, equally cynical answer: "jobs." 
 President Bush tried to defend that dismaying rationale in an interview with CNN. "Look what's happening in our own country right now," he said. "There's a slowdown, an economic slowdown," which he attributed to the oil price rise and the fear of further rises that Saddam Hussein could bring about. "And so -- it does mean jobs."
Here is the President espousing a line set earlier in the week by the man he has long trusted most in the formation of public opinion. Mr. Baker persuaded his boss that this pocketbook explanation of war aims, despite its negative reception with opinion leaders, would play in Peoria.
Mr. Baker is first and foremost a campaign manager. As he proved with his 1988 Willie Horton commercials and allegiance-pledging, he is not above using appeals to fear to sway public opinion. He has had time to think through the political reason for the President's severe drop in the polls, and his conclusion led to the "jobs" strategy. Let's see why.
He undoubtedly remembered how President Reagan's popularity plunged as the recession of 1981-82 drove up the unemployment rate. Mr. Baker also knows that the worsening 1990 recession has not yet pushed up the rate of unemployment, but that such a rise must accompany the economy's fall: at least 8 percent of the work force is likely to be out of work before Mr. Bush runs for re-election.
Who is to be blamed? How can the coming anger be deflected? Mr. Reagan was able to blame Jimmy Carter because his recession took place early in his first term, but Mr. Bush cannot blame Mr. Reagan. Nor can he shift the blame onto the Democrats for triggering recession by raising taxes -- because Mr. Bush joined that tax-hike caravan at Mr. Baker's urging.
The Baker answer: Blame Saddam Hussein. Never mind the conclusion by most economists that the downturn was well under way before his August invasion; that's a lot of egghead talk. Most people remember that prosperity was here last spring and it's gone this winter -- and the intervening big event was the doubling of oil prices after the invasion of Kuwait.
But it's a phony alibi. Of course the oil price hike adds to inflation; of course post-Kuwait uncertainty troubles the stock market; but the inevitable turn of the cycle after eight fat years was on its way. To try to use the confrontation in the gulf as an excuse for the coming decline of retail sales and drop in corporate earnings and loss of jobs is a cheap trick.
Mr. Baker is not above these tricks, but leads a media-charmed life. The savings and loan scandals took place on his watch as Treasury Secretary, but nobody grills him about his inattention. The sanctions to stop Saddam Hussein from using U.S. credit to buy weapons were defeated by Mr. Baker's personal decision, yet he was able to inveigle a front-page dope story saying how he really had wanted to get tough with Iraq but Robert Gates at the National Security Council wouldn't let him.
To use the crisis to avoid domestic political heat is to invite disunity. Mr. Bush should dispense with the sleazy Baker advice and follow his better instincts.
In the same CNN interview, he made a powerful point in going beyond the cliche of not rewarding aggression with face-saving concessions. "When you rape, pillage and plunder a neighbor, should you then ask the world 'Hey, give me a little face'?"
On the contrary, future would-be aggressors must be shown international crime has costs: not a return to the status quo ante, but reparations for killing and looting, war crimes trials for hostage-taking, and the verifiable elimination of all weapons of mass destruction. This is getting serious about keeping the next generation's peace.
The President noted that Saddam Hussein "has a nuclear capability that he's trying frantically to build . . . he's trying hard to get an atomic weapon."
Now you're talking about the coming threat to the lives of millions of Americans. That is the reason for finishing this war with an allied victory -- not to save our oil supply or to save jobs, but ultimately to save lives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GULF STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); TAX INCREASES (60%); ALIBI (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



635 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Will Europe Spell Peace C.S.C.E.?

 BODY:
American and European hopes for a stable post-cold war order are riding on the 34-nation summit conference that opens today in Paris. It could be another Congress of Vienna, which ended the Napoleonic era in 1815 and ushered in nearly a half-century of peace in Europe. Or it could be another Paris Peace Conference, which concluded World War I in 1919 but produced an uneasy truce that lasted a scant 20 years.
To meet the higher standard, and truly open a new chapter of peace, the conferees will have to do more than endorse agreements already arrived at to cut military forces and unite Germany. They must lay the foundations for a new collective security organization, one that fully engages the United States and the Soviet Union politically, while disengaging them militarily. 
 Some of the tasks confronting the summit meeting -- known formally as the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe -- are relatively easy. For example, it need only ratify the agreement to cut conventional forces, which in a stroke would eliminate the threat of sudden attack that has hung over Europe since 1945.
Still, too much military hardware will remain. And no limits were put on most states' manpower. NATO, for example, will realize only small savings from modest force cuts. It would benefit from deeper weapons and manpower cuts and more constraints on mobilization. That's a task for further talks, possibly under the C.S.C.E. umbrella.
C.S.C.E. could also play a useful role in monitoring treaty compliance. Through a Crisis Prevention Center to be established this week, it will also monitor and discuss "unusual military activity" that could endanger the new stability.
A more robust collective security role is obviously worth exploring. During the cold war, even if conflicts did erupt into war, as between Greece and Turkey, the alliance system contained them and kept other states from becoming embroiled. As national tensions rise, C.S.C.E. will be asked to help resolve disputes and even keep the peace.
The need to address the domestic causes of conflict is even more urgent. Economic aid and investment can help the fledgling democracies of Eastern Europe through the hard times ahead and take the edge off nationalism.
And by signing and implementing a declaration of principles, a Magna Carta for the new Europe, C.S.C.E. could help guarantee the rights of national minorities and the inviolability of borders while permitting the movement of people, goods and ideas across them.
More and more Europeans are coming to believe in a Europe in which shared values conquer national differences, in which conflicts between states are resolved without war and in which a common market keeps borders from becoming barriers. If this idea of Europe is to prove more powerful than national passions, C.S.C.E. will have to do its part.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (73%); GREECE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: CSC AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (90%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WORLD WAR I (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



636 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Defend the Schools, but Credibly

 BODY:
Strongly and stubbornly, Joseph Fernandez, New York City's Schools Chancellor, has been pursuing a passionate crusade to protect schools from drastic budget cuts. Mayor David Dinkins's latest demands could mean substantial teacher layoffs, and Gov. Mario Cuomo's new plan to close the state's huge budget deficit would cut $75 million from state aid to city schools.
Mr. Fernandez is surely right to fight; no part of municipal responsibility needs more help than education. But there's no denying the plunge in city revenues. At a time of widespread sacrifice, Mr. Fernandez appeared to have been taking obstinacy to the point of incredibility. New Yorkers who wish him and the schools well will welcome signs that he is moving to a more constructive approach.
 The severe downturn in the city and state economies has obliterated all budget forecasts. The city is trying to close a $388 million gap this year; the state may be short $1 billion. Despite this, the city rashly agreed to a one-year salary increase for teachers of 5.5 percent. Part of the increase, which Mr. Fernandez supported enthusiastically, would be financed with $70 million out of $153 million in state aid that is normally used to cover inflationary costs in Board of Education programs.
In a healthier economic climate, that would be acceptable. But under present circumstances, committing $70 million to teacher salaries puts Mr. Fernandez in a bind. That's because City Hall, having promised raises to the teachers, has also asked the board to cut its budget by $90 million.
Initially, Mr. Fernandez was only willing to identify $57.5 million in cuts. He notes that in the last 10 months the school system has already been asked to absorb $183 million in cuts, and that the central staff has been reduced by about 1,000 people. To pare the system any further, Mr. Fernandez insists, would cut muscle.
He may be right. But instead of making his case coolly, he spoke melodramatically about laying off 1,600 to 6,000 teachers. A more sensible strategy would have been to exhort the 32 community boards to cut administrative personnel first, minimizing the impact on educational quality. Why couldn't the Chancellor, who has been an effective advocate for a beleaguered school system, press community districts with the same energy he used to resist the Mayor?
In recent days, Mr. Fernandez appears to have recognized the need for a shrewder approach. He still disagrees with City Hall's contention that the board is merely being asked to take its fair share of cuts. But he at last seems willing to sit down with City Hall, community board leaders, parents and concerned citizens in an effort to reach consensus on a plan that will not devastate classroom services.
The city's troubles are real; the issue is not whether school cuts are needed, but how to minimize the loss.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR) JOSEPH FERNANDEZ (94%); DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (74%); MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



637 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: EVOLUTION IN EUROPE;
Emigre From Canada Running Well in Poland

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARSAW, Nov. 18

 BODY:
A wealthy Polish-born emigre businessman from Canada has suddenly emerged as a dark-horse candidate in the Polish presidential election campaign.
In just a few weeks, Stanislaw Tyminski, who is 42 years old and operates a cable television system in Peru, has risen from anonymity to a strong third-place showing in the polls, and is threatening to overtake Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, who now places second. The latest survey by Polish television, released Friday, shows Mr. Tyminski with 17 percent, Mr. Mazowiecki with 19 percent and Lech Walesa, the Solidarity chairman, holding the lead with 35 percent. 
 Under the rules for the 25 election this coming Sunday, a runoff will be held on Dec. 9 unless one candidate tallies more than 50 percent of the votes. Polish law permits Poles living overseas to vote in the coming elections, and Mr. Tyminski is actively campaigning for the support of hundreds of thousands of expatriates in Canada and the United States.
Political experts in Poland still do not see Mr. Tyminski as having a serious chance to win the presidency. Those same experts two weeks ago saw Mr. Tyminski as nothing more than a footnote, not a legitimate contender for second place in a two-candidate runoff. But the experts also felt that Mr. Tyminski could not defeat Mr. Walesa in a runoff.
 
Little About Him Is Known
 Mr. Tyminski, who holds Canadian, Peruvian and Polish citizenship, has revealed little about his background to voters here and he refused a request to detail his biography since leaving Poland 21 years ago.
Business associates and friends recount a remarkable journey in which Mr. Tyminski founded a successful computer company in Canada, lost and made a fortune in Peru and underwent a spiritual transformation after traveling among Indian tribes in the Amazon jungle.
His political background is similarly eclectic. Earlier this year, Mr. Tyminski was elected President of the 3,500-member Libertarian Party of Canada. The co-author of the book he published this year in Poland with his own money is Roman Samsel, a former correspondent in Mexico for the Communist Party's daily newspaper, Trybuna Ludu. Mr. Tyminski was the only presidential candidate to attend the party given in Warsaw by the Soviet Ambassador to mark the anniversary of the Russian Revolution.
If Mr. Tyminski's background is elusive, there is no secret about his electoral appeal. His posters, plastered on the sides of Warsaw buses, are an appeal to voters put off by the prospect of a Walesa presidency and uninspired by Mr. Mazowiecki. "Neither one nor the other: Vote Tyminski," they say.
 
Attractive to Poles
 Mr. Tyminski's self-described success in Western business -- his campaign literature says he is among the richer men in Canada -- make him attractive to Poles looking for a candidate who can rebuild the nation's shattered economy. He frequently criticizes the Government's proposed program for privitizing industry in Poland, saying it would sell assets far too cheaply and invite foreigners to take unfair advantage of low wages in Poland.
"He's very appealing to people who would like to live in a rational world," said Jadwiga Staniszkis, a sociologist who supports Mr. Walesa. "Walesa is really rather unpredictable. When Tyminski speaks, he sounds terrible, but his campaign has been brilliant, his documents and television are brilliant. He is a very mysterious man."
His style of campaigning has created a stir. Mr. Tyminski, who speaks Polish with a slight foreign accent, travels around the country in a helicopter. On Saturday, he told an election rally that he would soon release documents proving that Mr. Mazowiecki was guilty of unspecified "treason," and he accused the Government of falsifying its econmic statistics.
The Government issued a denial.
According to his campaign literature and book, Mr. Tyminski was born in 1948 and went to Sweden in 1969 because he saw no opportunities in Poland. Neighbors in the small Warsaw suburb where grew up recall that he had a talent for repairing radios. After a brief stay in Sweden, he emigrated to Canada.
 
Founded Computer Company
 Maciej Bebenek, who works on the presidential campaign, said that after arriving in Canada, Mr. Tyminski studied computer science and took a job at Hewlett-Packard. In 1975, he founded a company called Transduction that found a niche designing computer systems for factories and power plants. Today, Mr. Bebenek said the company has between 10 and 15 full-time employees.
Frank Ollie, Mr. Tyminski's partner in Transduction, would not disclose the company's sales but said published reports that put the amount between $5 and $10 million were not inaccurate. Mr. Ollie said the company did so well in the late 1970's that Mr. Tyminski "felt somewhat guilty about all the money he was making" and began contributing to an orphanage in Peru. In the early 1980's, Mr. Tyminski took a vacation in Peru to get a first-hand look at the orphanage.
Mr. Ollie said Mr. Tyminski saw a business opportunity and built a large barge to carry fuel to Iquitos, a city in the upper Amazon.
"He was a bit naive about all the goings on in this part of the world, with the drug dealings and so on, and had his boat taken over by the Army, which considered it an excellent gunboat," Mr. Ollie said. This cost Mr. Tyminski between $800,000 and $1 million in losses and prompted him to journey into the jungle with the local tribes, Mr. Ollie said.
 
Described Travels in Book
 "Stan got very close to the people and many of their mystic ways," Mr. Ollie said. "I think Shirley MacLaine talks about these things. Stan was there long before that and participated in all that."
Later, Mr. Tyminski returned to Iquitos and founded a cable television company called TVS which, Mr. Ollie said, "put him back on the road to personal prosperity.
He returned to Canada in 1985 and made it a point to employ Poles at a home, a factory and a farm he had in Canada, Mr. Ollie said. Mr. Tyminski was said by several associates to have decided to enter the race after discovering that his book was being quoted by Polish candidates, including Mr. Walesa. Supporters of the Solidarity chairman said they could not recall him ever citing Mr. Tyminski's book.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); POLAND (97%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); WRITERS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN; TYMINSKI, STANISLAW; WALESA, LECH; MAZOWIECKI, TADEUSZ (PRIME MIN) ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



638 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Kindly Reflections on the Carter Era

BYLINE: By ANDREW L. YARROW

 BODY:
If events wrought havoc with Jimmy Carter's Administration at the time, history has been decidedly good to America's 39th President.
Mr. Carter took another step on his long journey from public ignominy to widespread admiration as dozens of former Carter Administration officials and scholars gathered last week at Hofstra University in Hempstead, L.I., for a three-day conference to evaluate his Presidency. Mr. Carter addressed the conference on Friday, warning that President Bush was moving America toward war in the Persian Gulf. 
 The 66-year-old former President, relaxed and good-humored in a navy blazer and gray trousers, was praised for moral leadership, for rejecting politics as usual and for prescience in recognizing many of the nation's longterm problems. His failures -- with Iran, the economy and in the 1980 election -- were largely attributed to a combination of bad luck, being ahead of his time and being misunderstood by the public, the press and the liberal wing of the Democratic Party.
During the conference, which ended Saturday night, former Carter aides like Hamilton Jordan, Jody Powell and Bert Lance reminisced about the turbulent, idealistic days of the late 1970's, and many scholars said Mr. Carter's post-Presidential performance as a peacemaker and advocate for the world's poor had been a major reason for his enhanced public esteem.
"Jimmy Carter is looking good with hindsight," said Mark J. Rozell, a political scientist at Mary Washington College in Fredericksburg, Va. "All the things for which he was criticized are now qualities which everyone says we need." Mr. Rozell, a participant in one of 12 panel discussions, cited Mr. Carter's status as a Washington outsider, his emphasis on ethics, his concern for details and his compassion.
 
Comparison With Reagan
 "We've had the opportunity in recent years to see a President who paid attention to details and one who didn't," said Robert J. Lipshutz, the former counsel to the President, comparing Mr. Carter with Ronald Reagan. "We couldn't have had the Camp David accords if Carter had to read 3-by-5 cards."
Jody Powell, Mr. Carter's Presidential press secretary, said: "Jimmy Carter's performance and behavior were assessed on an extremely traditional model of what Presidents do. He didn't wheel and deal, because by 1976 that was already bankrupt."
Mr. Powell, who now heads a public relations firm in Washington, said he wished "we'd adopted a tougher and more aggressive policy" with the press, but he disputed the notion that Mr. Carter's relationship with Congress was strained. "He spent an extraordinary amount of time talking with members of Congress, more than his two predecessors or successors. But we had a problem, philosophically and in other ways, that Jimmy Carter was not what the established Democratic Party thought they would get."
 
Gains for Labor
 Several former aides said many of Mr. Carter's legislative accomplishments had been overlooked.
"The Carter Administration had the best labor record of any President since F.D.R.," said F. Ray Marshall, Mr. Carter's Labor Secretary. During the Carter years, he said, America not only had "the largest relative job growth of any postwar Administration," but collective bargaining was strengthened, work-safety laws were passed, and extensive job-training programs were created.
On Saturday, during a well-attended panel on the Iran hostage crisis, Moorhead Kennedy, a former hostage, recalled that the State Department and United States Embassy personnel "were so unprepared" for the seizure of the embassy in 1979. But he praised Mr. Carter as "the President who brought his hostages home."
 
Caution on Gulf Crisis
 Mr. Carter also addressed the issue on Friday in a two-hour question-and-answer session with 1,100 Long Island high school students and before a standing-room-only crowd of more than 1,500 people in Adams Playhouse at Hofstra.
Although he said President Bush had handled the gulf crisis "extremely well" at first, Mr. Carter warned that if the United States prematurely opted for a military solution, "we would reap serious and deleterious political consequences, far beyond what we've been led to believe."
"In Washington, people are talking about 10,000 to 30,000 U.S. force casualties," he added. "But we'd also be killing a large number of civilians. The Arab world would never forgive us for the massive deaths."
He also said the Reagan Administration's "lack of an energy policy is a contributing factor for our being in Saudi Arabia." He said the United States imported 30 percent of its oil when he left office, as against more than 50 percent today.
 
Former First Lady Speaks
 Mr. Carter's wife, Rosalynn, who shared the dais with him, added: "People want a country to be tough. If we had bombed Teheran, I think Jimmy would have been re-elected, even though the hostages would have died. But our country is stronger when we stand for peace and human rights."
Mr. Carter also expressed his opposition to limiting legislators' terms, praised President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union as the century's pre-eminent leader and worried that the large accumulation of debt during the Reagan years has "reduced Government's flexibility to deal with real problems" like poverty, education and pollution.
After describing his "despair" after the 1980 election, Mr. Carter talked about the efforts of the Carter Presidential Center to combat disease, malnutrition, human-rights abuses and war.
"We try to fill vacuums in the international community," he said, explaining that his center undertakes projects that governments and international agencies either have ignored or have been unable to take on. The center, established in 1982 at Emory University in Atlanta, has embarked on projects from helping produce medical prostheses in China and teaching African farmers to increasing grain production. mediating the Ethiopian civil war and supervising elections in Panama and Nicaragua.
The Democratic Party's failure to win a Presidential election since 1976 was addressed only somewhat elliptically during the conference.
While Mr. Carter criticized Mr. Reagan and President Bush, and had generally kind words about his Republican predecessor, Gerald R. Ford, he avoided talking about other Democrats. But former Carter officials criticized Senator Edward M. Kennedy for creating a rift within the party by challenging Mr. Carter in the 1980 primaries and suggested that Mr. Carter actually served as a model for future Democratic candidates.
"On social issues, Jimmy Carter was as liberal and demonstrated more compassion in civil rights and human rights as any President," Mr. Lipshutz said. "His difference with the traditional Kennedy wing of the Democratic Party was that he tried to be fiscally responsible. Hopefully, this combination will be the guideline for the Democratic Party of the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jimmy Carter speaking last week at a Hofstra University forum evaluating his Presidency. At left was his wife, Rosalynn. Mr. Carter was praised for moral leadership and for recognizing many long-term problems. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

COMPANY: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ETHICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); 

PERSON: YARROW, ANDREW L; CARTER, JIMMY JIMMY CARTER (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1990



639 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2577 words

HEADLINE: In Louisiana, a Critical Wetland Habitat Founders

BYLINE: By CORY DEAN

DATELINE: COCODRIE, La.

 BODY:
SHEA PENLAND, associate director of the Louisiana Geological Survey, eased a 22-foot skiff out of its slip in this small settlement deep in the bayous of Terrebonne Parish. He nudged the throttle forward and the boat picked up speed, clearing the harbor and skimming over the light chop of Terrebonne Bay toward the barrier islands that protect the estuary and its fragile marsh from the Gulf of Mexico.
From the boat, the marsh seemed vibrant, a sea of green and golden grass punctuated by occasional clumps of bushes and trees. Fish and even an occasional porpoise jumped in the water, egrets and herons fished at the its edge and flights of pelicans soared overhead. 
 But this is not a healthy marsh. Salt-tolerant grasses have moved in where freshwater plants once grew. The small clusters of trees and shrubs mark a landscape in decline. "An unhealthy marsh gets real clumpy and fragmented," Dr. Penland said. "It's dying."
In about 15 minutes, the edge of the marsh had receded into the distance. "You look out there and see open water," observed another passenger, Robert S. Jones, the parish engineer. "If you look on a state map, it shows as solid marsh."
But the state's mapmakers are not keeping up with the marsh. For reasons still imperfectly understood, the wetlands here are disappearing; each year, up to 40 square miles of Louisiana quietly sink underwater. If wetland loss continued at its present rate, Dr. Penland said, Terrebonne Parish would be gone in 100 years.
More than the landscape is at stake. Louisiana has more than 41 percent of the coastal wetlands in the United States. It supports the nation's largest fin- and shell-fishery, by weight producing 30 percent of the country's commercial harvest each year. Almost every fish caught in the Gulf of Mexico spends part of its life in the Louisiana marsh. The wetlands are the wintering ground or vital refueling stop for most of the migratory waterfowl that travel the Mississippi flyway, as well as being vital in the production and transportation of much of the nation's oil and natural gas.
Fueled by industry grants, Federal appropriations and a new state trust fund financed by oil and gas royalties, scientists and engineers are struggling to save this critical resource, But they are only beginning to understand the host of influences that are combining to destroy it. Remedies like dikes, dams and even old Christmas trees are still under study.
The new research effort marks a profound change from the 1970's, when wetland loss and oil and gas development hit their peaks and the industry was accused of literally destroying the state. Today, while industry leaders acknowledge a share of the blame, there is wide agreement that the problem would continue even if the industry pulled out its rigs, filled its canals and left the state without a trace. In fact, the industry has a strong incentive to protect the marshes. Much of its equipment could not survive in open water and, under some conditions when wetlands give way to open water, "those water bottoms become the property of the state," Dr. Penland said. "If you're a private landowner you face the possibility of losing your mineral rights."
But there is plenty of disagreement as geologists, ecologists and engineers argue over how to solve the problem and whether it can be solved at all.
 
The Problem
 
Land Sinks, Waters Rise
A principal cause of wetland loss in Louisiana is subsidence. The land is made of sediment laid down over centuries by the ever-shifting Mississippi River. So much has accumulated that its weight is actually warping the earth's crust. The thicker and fresher the sediment is, the more it subsides. In parts of Terrebonne Parish, the land is sinking more than 1 inch a year.
In the past, the river would have made up the subsidence by adding new sediment in its spring floods. But by the 1950's, the dams built on its tributaries had sharply reduced its load of sediment. And the river itself has been walled off from the marshes by miles of levees constructed at huge expense to protect the land from the very floods that nourished it.
Besides subsidence, other forces are helping undermine the fragile wetlands:
*The sea level is rising.
*Hurricanes, tropical storms and even passing cold fronts erode the delicate barrier islands that buffer the marsh.
*Access canals dredged by oil and gas companies disrupt the natural flow of surface and underground water. As they erode, they enlarge the area of open water.
*Removal of oil and gas accelerates subsidence, and the brine brought up with them and dumped nearby kills marsh plants.
*Nutrias, rodents introduced to control the water hyacinths clogging navigation canals, devour the roots of marsh plants.
The exact role of all these and other factors in wetland loss is now becoming a matter of intense study.
"The only thing that's been done on wetland loss is we've measured how much has been lost," said Harry H. Roberts, a marine geologist who directs the Coastal Studies Institute at Louisiana State University. "People in Louisiana have this mind-set that everything has been studied and now we need action. But all that's been done is document how fast we're losing the land."
This month, experts from the United States Geological Survey and the Argonne National Laboratory will begin a five-year effort to classify and map sources of wetland loss. In August, the Army Corps of Engineers and the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources began a three-year study to evaluate possible ways of preventing or restoring marsh loss.
"There are an awful lot of good ideas out there," said Col. Richard V. Gorski, who heads the New Orleans District for the engineers. "We're going to tie them together, establish some priorities and recommend construction."
 
The Sea
 
Some Try to Halt Flow of Salt Water
One method of saving wetland, on which many landowners are pinning their hopes, is marsh management. Landowners have built weirs, levees and other structures that limit saltwater intrusion and scouring by tides. For example the Louisiana Land and Exploration Company, an oil and gas concern, has built more than 400 weirs and other structures on its 600,000 acres. These "slow the exchange of salt water back into the fresh water," said H. Leighton Steward, the company's chairman. While they allow fish in and out, he said, they "prevent salt water in an extremely high tide from getting in there and killing the plants.
"We can look at our property where we've had water control structures in place for 30 years and look at adjacent property owners' property and see the difference," he said.
But others question the value of marsh management.
"We can show you examples where they've been effective and where they haven't been effective," Colonel Gorski said. "It's very dependent on the local circumstances, the people involved."
And few of these projects have been were systematically monitored, said Donald R. Cahoon, a plant ecologist at Louisiana State University and chief of the environmental resources section of the Louisiana Geological Survey. "The vast majority of policies on marsh management in Louisiana have been set on a very limited data base and in some cases no data at all," he said.
Dr. Cahoon and other researchers have just finished what he said was the first study to compare managed marsh areas with unmanaged controls. After surveying 16 managed areas, they concluded that marsh management was not consistently effective in preventing wetland loss. Half of the managed areas were no better off than the unmanaged controls and only 5 of the 16 showed improvement. The unmanaged areas even gained more sediment.
The United States Fish and Wildlife Service is about to begin a four-year study in which researchers will create four marsh management sites of 75 to 400 acres and compare them to unmanaged sites. Investigators will monitor sediment flow, plant growth and the amount of material plants add to the marsh.
"We're trying to take an objective stance on marsh management," said A. Lee Foote, a research ecologist for the agency. "I have some genuine, heartfelt doubts about whether this kind of marsh management works."
Dr. Cahoon says: "Marsh management is a question of trade-offs. You might have to trade off sediment, you might have to trade off some species of fish. You have to be careful what you're trading off for what."
 
The River
 
Using Fresh Water To Aid Marshes
A different approach to marsh management relies on putting the river back into the marshland rather than keeping the ocean out. The idea is to use a flood of fresh water to push back salt water and prevent it from poisoning the plants whose roots hold the marsh together.
Enormous diversion structures would carry Mississippi River water through canals or spillways to the marsh behind the levees. The Corps of Engineers is designing a $76 million diversion project at the Bonnet Carre, a $41 million project at Davis Pond, both upriver from New Orleans, and a $26 million structure downriver at Caernarvon.
In effect, these diversions will operate as giant gates, maintaining the integrity of the levee in floods, but allowing water through at most other times.
The Caernarvon diversion system, expected to be ready in January, will go into action whenever gauges indicate too much salt water in the marsh behind it.
But experts disagree about whether restoring fresh water to the marsh will create new wetlands.
Some say marshes are built primarily of heavy bedload sediment that moves along the river bottom, not the finer sediment suspended in the water. Getting bedload sediment up on land would probably require very deep cuts in the levees, elaborate pumps and, as one engineer put it, "a vast amount of money."
But others, like Dr. Roberts, say that is not necessarily the case. "Bedload is mostly quartz, which has little nutritional value" for a marsh, he said. "Most of the marsh plants are seeded on fine grain sediment which include quartz and clays."
 
The Islands
 
Restoring Barriers As a Defense Line
A third approach to reducing wetland loss is one that many experts think the state and the Corps of Engineers are neglecting: strengthening the barrier islands at the edge of the Gulf.
Like everything else in southern Louisiana, the protective barrier islands are sinking. Dr. Penland estimates that some will survive only another decade. When they go, the winds and waves of Gulf storms will accelerate the destruction of the state's marshes.
Ignoring these islands is particularly short-sighted, in his view, because they can be strengthened quite cheaply.
That is what Mr. Jones, the Terrebonne Parish engineer did on eastern Isle Dernieres, one of a line of islands whose few hundred yards of dunes is all that protects parish marshes from the full brunt of the Gulf's waters. The island was cut when a hurricane struck in 1974 and though the breach healed, parish officials feared their bulwark would fail again. When officials at the state capital did not act, Mr. Jones said, the parish decided to attack the problem itself.
The result is a project that Dr. Penland says could serve as a model for low-cost barrier island restoration.
In effect, Mr. Jones raised the island. Lacking high quality sand, he used material from the island itself to build dikes along the island's front and back. Then he filled the middle with inferior material dredged from a channel in back of the island. Finally, teen-agers employed in a summer job program planted beach grass on the new dune.
"We drug a stick to make a hole, used another stick with a Coke bottle with a hole in it to spread the seeds and then a third guy came along shuffling his feet to cover them up," Mr. Jones recalled.
The ultimate in low-tech, the 3,200-foot project was completed for less than $1 million and has survived five years of Gulf weather. "I'd call it a success," Mr. Jones said.
For Mr. Jones and others, the state's coastal wetland conservation and restoration plan is a source of continuing irritation in that it does not concern itself with barrier islands unless they actually have marsh on them.
But other experts say marsh management and diversion projects have bigger potential payoffs and funds must be concentrated on them.
"By preserving barrier islands the greatest impact you'll have is maybe 10 percent," said David M. Soileau, who heads the state's Wetland Conservation and Restoration Task Force. "Salt water intrusion and subsidence are still real major problems, even if you were able to replace the barrier islands."
Federal guidelines require all Corps of Engineers projects to show direct economic benefit. When it comes to uninhabited islands, Colonel Gorski said, "we don't have a mechanism to accurately calculate those benefits. Intuitively we know that barrier islands are good and they help protect the interior from storm surges and erosion, but we haven't determined a dollar mechanism."
While state and Federal authorities continue their studies, individuals and communities press ahead with their own small-scale attempts to save their marshes. Some set fire to the marshland's cypress trees and live oaks, a custom dating from the earliest European settlement. In theory, burning old vegetation helps newer, more vigorous plants to thrive. Others, encouraged by the Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana, plan to donate their used Christmas trees to trap sediment. G. Paul Kemp, the coalition's executive director, says "This year we have a goal to get a quarter of a million Christmas trees."
But some scientists dismiss the idea as a gimmick, since the trees cannot trap sediment if there is no sediment to be trapped.
In coastal parishes, where roadways are often built on land so low and narrow that people pull over and fish the bayous from their pickup trucks, officials are considering mounting their own elaborate defenses, like surrounding their towns with levees.
"The only way we're going to be able to survive down here is with levees," said Mr. Jones, the Terrebonne Parish engineer. "Eventually we'll all be living in a bowl."
 
The Outlook
 
Basic Questions And Some Hopes
While engineers and public officials debate the merits of this range of mitigation efforts, scientists are continuing their basic research into the geology and ecology of the delta.
"This is a very complicated set of processes," said Dr. Roberts, the L.S.U. marine geologist. "If someone asked me to map subsidence in the coastal plain I could not do it. And in order to control subsidence I have to know what I am up against."
Mr. Soileau of the state's wetlands restoration force said he was optimistic that research and mitigation efforts could eventually create ways to replace or restore marshland as quickly as it is lost. "I predict perhaps even in 20 years we will have reached a static relationship between wetlands lost and wetland gain in Louisiana," he said.
But for most other scientists and engineers, this "no net loss" is an impossible dream. The most they hope is to slow the rate at which their state is disappearing.
"If you look at the numbers -- sediment in the river and the techniques and cost of getting that sediment out -- the achievement of no net loss is not attainable," Dr. Penland said. "The river of today is not the river of yesterday that built the delta."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A VANISHING RESOURCE: Subsidence, rising sea levels and a bewildering array of other factors are ceding Louisiana coastal wetlands to the Gulf of Mexico. Now scientists and engineers are trying to fight back.; FIGHTING SALT WATER WITH FRESH: Multi-million-dollar projects would monitor wetland salinity and divert fresh water when necessary to prevent salt water from killing marsh plants. But scientists argue about whether this fresh water will transport enough sediment to rebuild sinking marshes.; A BARRIER TO THE GULF: Because salt water is denser than fresh water, impounding marsh areas with underwater dams and weirs can hold off the Gulf. But these and other marsh management projects may keep fish out as well and reduce deposits of sediment even further. Scientists are devising new ways to measure the ways water carries marsh-building soil into and out of the marsh. (pg. C1); Engineers fortified East Island in the Isles Dernieres by building dikes along the island's front and back, filing the middle with material dredged from a channel at the back of the island. (Terrebone Consolidated Government); On East Timbalier Island, one of Louisiana's barrier islands, two seawalls have not been successful in keeping the island from eroding. Some of the barrier islands may siurvive only another decade. (Louisiana Geological Survey) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (97%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA

SUBJECT: COAST EROSION; WETLANDS; DAMS AND DIKES; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SHELLFISH WETLANDS (92%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); BIRDS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); EROSION (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); FISHERIES (76%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); NATURAL GAS (65%); ROYALTIES (65%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (64%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (60%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); 

PERSON: DEAN, CORY

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



640 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: K Mart Profit Up Slightly

BYLINE: REUTERS

DATELINE: TROY, Mich., Nov. 19

 BODY:
The K Mart Corporation, one of the nation's largest retailiers, reported today that its third-quarter profits increased only slightly from a year ago, mainly because of new units and some weakness in the retail economy.
The company, based in Troy, Mich., said it had net earnings of $105.9 million, or 53 cents a share, compared with $104.1 million, or 52 cents, a year ago. Its revenues rose 11.7 percent, to $7.6 billion, from $6.8 billion in the corresponding period a year ago.
K Mart said the results reflected its acquisition of two retail chains: PACE Membership Warehouse and the Sports Authority.
K Mart said sales of basic merchandise were good, offsetting weak sales in electronics and other big-ticket categories. But unseasonably warm weather hurt the company's clothing sales in September and October.
The company's chairman, Joseph Antonini, said K Mart's inventories were declining and the company was positioned better to handle projected sales.
K Mart's shares were unchanged today at $27.125 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KM (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: K MART CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH E ANTONINI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



641 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Ontario's New Premier a Surprise to Business

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 19

 BODY:
The gibes about the People's Republic of Ontario, which greeted the surprise election of a left-wing government in Canada's richest and most populous province in September, are heard less often these days around Toronto's financial district.
Far from being the socialist bogeyman feared by business, the New Democratic Party administration headed by Premier Bob Rae has so far concentrated on forging a three-legged partnership among itself, the party's trade-union and social constituencies, and the province's business leaders. 
 The new government has surprisedfriends and foes alike with the comforting signals it has sent to business. Mr. Rae traveled to New York last month to reassure American bankers and investors. He also met with members of the Business Council on National Issues, a group of chief executives of 150 leading Canadian corporations.
The new Premier has not repeated his campaign threats to ignore the Canadian-American free trade agreement, putting the emphasis instead on the province's readiness to help companies and workers who suffer as a result of stiffer competition from United States imports.
Despite the New Democratic Party'spolicy of public ownership of utilities, the government has also given the green light for British Gas's proposed $1.1 billion takeover of Consumers' Gas Company, Canada's biggest natural gas distributor. Explaining why the government itself had not taken over Consumers, Mr. Rae said that "frankly, we felt the cost was simply too high. We don't have the money to use in that way."
"I think Rae has done pretty well considering the constituency that elected him," said Hal Jackman, controlling shareholder of a Toronto-based financial services group, someone who normally supports the ProgressiveConservative Party. The Conservatives, despite their control of the national Government in Ottawa, only managed to finish third in the Sept. 6 Ontario province election.
In that election, the New Democrats scored one of the most stunning upsets in Canadian political history by winning 74 of 130 seats in the province's legislature, ousting the five-year-old Liberal Party government of David Peterson. Only 14 of the party's members have previous experience in the legislature.
The business lobby may be less than happy after the Throne Speech on Tuesday, when the government is traditionally given the opportunity to spell out its policies.
The speech is widely expected to focus on the interventionist, social democratic platform on which the NewDemocrats ran in the September election. Susan Murray, a Toronto political consultant, predicts that it will include an environmental bill of rights, extra protection for workers facing layoffs, plans for a public auto insurance plan and tougher employment-equity rules.
Nonetheless, Ms. Murray is advising her clients, who include several large multinational corporations, to "stay calm, to stay at the table and not to go public with their complaints." In a recent memo, she told them that "the Rae government will move cautiously and make pragmatic decisions which account for economic realities and which do not necessarily reflect traditional N.D.P. policy positions."
 However, some of the party's usual supporters are starting to get impatient. Michael Shapcott, a Toronto antipoverty campaigner, says that "Bob Rae wasn't elected to maintain the status quo."
"He hasn't clearly stood up and said, 'These are our issues and this is what we stand for.' "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BG (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (67%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (96%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH GAS (82%); ENBRIDGE GAS DISTRIBUTION INC (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; ONTARIO (CANADA)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LIBERALISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); NATURAL GAS (75%); TAKEOVERS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (70%); LAYOFFS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); APPROVALS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (61%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (60%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: RAE, BOB (PREMIER)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



642 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
* Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. is offering $300.1 million in real estate mortgage investment conduit securities through Goldman, Sachs & Co. The offering is backed by 15-year Freddie Mac gold participation certificates, with a coupon of 9 1/2 percent.
 
* MCI Communications Corp., Washington, has filed a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an offering of about $750 million in subordinated medium-term notes through Merrill Lynch & Co. The offering would be due from nine months to 30 years from the date of issue. Combined with proceeds from an earlier registration, the total value of the offering would be $910 million.
 
* New York State Electric and Gas Co., Ithaca, N.Y., will redeem on Dec. 24 all $75 million outstanding of its first mortgage bonds, 12 1/8 percent series, due 2015.
 
* Philip Morris Cos., New York, is offering $250 million in notes, due in 1994, through Salomon Brothers Inc. The notes, expected to yield 8.80 percent, have an 8 3/4 coupon rate and were priced at 99.825 to yield 96 basis points more than comparable Treasury securities. Noncallable for life, the issue is rated A-3 by Moody's Investors Service and A by Standard & Poor's.
 
* Westwood One Inc., Los Angeles, is offering to exchange its 9 percent convertible senior subordinated debentures, due in 2002, for its 6 3/4 percent convertible subordinated debentures, due in 2011.
 
Ratings
 
* Glendale Federal Bank's long-term deposit and senior debt ratings have been lowered to Ba-2, from Ba-1, and the subordinated debt rating has been lowered to B-2, from Ba-3, by Moody's. The rating agency also lowered the subordinated debt of GlenFed Inc., the parent of the Glendale, Calif., savings and loan association, to B-3 from B-1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); VZC (LSE) (72%); VZ (NYSE) (72%); MO (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (70%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (69%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (67%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (67%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (72%); NEW YORK STATE ELECTRIC & GAS CORP (70%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (69%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); DIAL GLOBAL INC (67%); GLENFED INC (65%); GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK FSB (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE MORTGAGE CONDUITS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



643 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Bank Credit Tighter, Survey by Fed Finds

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
A survey of banks has found increased credit restraint, with a large majority tightening standards for commercial real estate loans, the Federal Reserve Board said today.
"As in past surveys, the pullback was least evident in consumer and home mortgage lending and was clearest in commercial real estate lending, a category for which a large majority of respondents continued to raise their credit standards," the central bank said. 
 The Fed survey of senior loan officers at 60 large banks in October occurred as Bush Administration officials expressed growing concern that a shortage of credit was deepening the economic downturn.
 
 Overreaction Seen
 Financial institutions and some borrowers have been complaining for months that regulators have overreacted to the savings and loan crisis by discouraging all loans, even sound ones. The regulators, however, say they are only urging prudence in response to the weaker economy.
Compared with a similar Fed poll three months earlier, the latest report said there was "increased credit restraint, with agencies and branches of foreign banks reporting more tightening than domestic banks."
Nearly two-thirds of the respondents reported tightening lending standards for commercial real estate loans, while almost half of the respondents had tightened lending standards for non-real estate commercial and industrial loans to large corporations.
They most often cited "a deterioration in the economic outlook" and "problems specific to individual industries" for the greater restraint, the Fed said. About a fifth of the banks surveyed said their capital position restricted new lending, while two-thirds said it had no effect.
 
 Tighter Standards in Northeast
 "Home mortgage lending remained relatively favored," the Fed said. But it noted that more banks, particularly in the Northeast, were reporting tighter standards even in that area.
About one in four of the banks said they were either requiring a higher down payment on home mortgages or had raised the household income needed to qualify for a loan.
"In sum, the results of this lending practices survey suggest that a deterioration in the general economic outlook since summer has prompted a sizable share of domestic respondents to tighten credit standards more," the central bank said.
In addition to scrutinizing borrowers more closely, about half the banks said they had raised their loan fees and charged a bigger spread over base interest rates. Between a third and a half are requiring better collateral.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (91%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



644 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: New Rift in U.S.-Japan Jet Project

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 19

 BODY:
A year after plans to co-develop an advanced fighter aircraft led to the most bruising confrontation between Japan and the United States in years, the military project has caused new discord. Both countries now blame the other for delays, huge cost overruns and technical problems that are engulfing the effort.
The joint project, called the FS-X, touched off a prolonged battle in Congress last year over charges that Japan would use American-developed military technology as a springboard for building a commercial aircraft industry to compete with the American industry. In the months of wrangling, a wide gulf of mistrust between the two countries developed. 
 But after renegotiations, President Bush and the Japanese Government agreed that Japan would develop its own flight-control software for the FS-X, thereby keeping some key American technologies out of Japanese hands. While that enabled the biggest joint military project ever undertaken by the two countries to move ahead, participants now say that the ill will, technological compromises and conflicts left unresolved in last year's debate have begun to take a toll.
In the last two weeks, the Japanese Government has conceded that the cost of developing the plane has nearly doubled. Critics, both Japanese and American, contend that the FS-X will be so expensive and late that it will be nearly obsolete by the time the first plane takes off.
Japanese officials say they do not expect the project to be killed, in part because it would involve an enormous loss of face for both Governments. But the problems surrounding the FS-X have clearly strained a relationship already burdened by a longstanding trade dispute and Japan's decision earlier this month not to send military forces to the Persian Gulf.
Among the critics of the joint project at present is Seiki Nishihiro, who, until his retirement last summer, served as Japan's Vice Minister of Defense. He also led the effort to develop the plane and negotiated the agreements with the United States.
"The FS-X project itself has completely lost its effectiveness," Mr. Nishihiro, who is still an adviser to the Self-Defense Agency, said in an interview this week. "If things are left on the course they are on now, there is the possibility that the project will evaporate into thin air."
American officials are less pessimistic, but express doubts about whether Japan's Parliament will allocate more money for the project. Many in Parliament are already eager to cut the country's military budget as the Soviet threat declines and are angry over the Self-Defense Agency's advocacy of a strong Japanese military presence in the gulf.
"Both Governments have so much invested in it, it has to work," said one American official here involved in the negotiations. "But we are discovering that last year's arguments are not over by any means."
 
 Roots in the 1980's
 Japan and the United States began fighting over the FS-X in the mid-1980's, when the Japanese military decided to build the plane alone, largely to free itself from dependence on American weapons designs. The Reagan Administration objected, and under great pressure the Prime Minister at the time, Yasuhiro Nakasone, agreed to a "co-development" plan under which the aircraft's design would be based on the F-16 fighter built by the General Dynamics Corporation. Under the plan eventually announced, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries would work with technology from General Dynamics and build the planes in Japan.
But when the agreement was about to be signed last year, Congress objected, saying that the project would give away critical technology that Japan would use for building commercial aircraft, one of the few industries in which the United States remains far ahead of the Japanese.
In many ways, the fight over the FS-X became a microcosm of the growing rifts between Japan and the United States, particularly the sense of distrust that increasingly permeates questions of national security and trade. In last year's confrontation over whether to transfer jet fighter technology, Congress said that concerns about declining American economic competitiveness should take precedence over nurturing the post-World War II military alliance with Japan. That attitude appears to be hardening because of Japan's reluctance to provide personnel in the military buildup against Saddam Hussein.
 
 Question of Cost
 Now, many in the Japanese Government are saying that the United States and General Dynamics are responsible for the troubles facing the FS-X. The original price tag for developing the plane, about $1.25 billion, is likely to rise to $2.4 billion or more. Actually building the planned 130 to 170 planes by 1997 was estimated three years ago at an additional $6 billion or more; no one will now say what the total figure really is.
Mr. Nishihiro blames General Dynamics for the increases, saying it "has doubled its original quote."
But Dr. Vernon A. Lee, the military contractor's vice president for Japan, said that it had "supplied information to the Japanese defense agency in good faith" several years ago, in response to a questionnaire.
"The next step, converting that into a budget, we weren't involved in," he said. "And there have been many changes in the program since then that we don't have any control over."
 
 Months of Bickering
 Further delays and increased costs resulted from months of bickering between General Dynamics and Mitsubishi Heavy about how to interpret the vaguely worded agreement between the Governments.
And the Japanese still resent Congressional insistence that Japan write all of the flight-control software for the airplane itself, adding considerably to Japan's costs. American experts feared that the General Dynamics software could be used to help Mitsubishi build commercial jets.
"Originally, the idea was that we could receive new F-16 technology," Mr. Nishihiro said. "That is not coming in. So the original objective of pooling technology from both sides has been lost." Mr. Nishihiro said that last year, when the American objections to the plane arose, he recommended to Noboru Takeshita, who was then Prime Minister, that "we should scuttle the whole thing," rather than further undermine relations with the United States. But Mr. Takeshita determined that it was important that the project go ahead on American terms.
 
 Twice the Cost
 Now some Japanese are saying that the plane looks increasingly like a waste of money. It will cost at least $64 million for each FS-X aircraft, more than twice what it would cost to buy the F-16 directly. Moreover, the threat the fighter plane was intended to counter, from the Soviet Union's bases to the north and west of Japan, now seems vastly reduced, and there is growing public pressure to trim Japan's military expenditures.
But Mr. Nishihiro doubts the program will be canceled, because it has become a symbol of the American alliance in a country where symbolism is everything.
"There is a kind of inertia in the Japanese executive branch," he said, "a feeling that if they decided to scrap the program, it would indicate their post-judgment was wrong."


GRAPHIC: (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries)
Photo: A joint project of the United States and Japan to build the FS-X advanced fighter aircraft, depicted in an artist's conception, has caused considerable discord between the two countries since the mid-1980's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (97%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD; GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FS-X AIRPLANE; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TRADE DISPUTES (70%); BUDGETS (63%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



645 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Bush Vetos Sanctions On Chemical Weapons

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
President Bush has employed a pocket veto to kill legislation that would have imposed mandatory penalties on nations and companies that promoted the spread of chemical or biological and weapons to developing nations like Iraq.
The legislation was passed by Congress on Oct 26. In a statement released by the White House, Mr. Bush said he would not it because it would have allowed him too little discretion in punishing those who sold or transferred the equipment and technology for such arms.
"The mandatory imposition of unilateral sanctions as provided in this bill would harm U.S. economic interests and provoke friendly countries who are essential to our efforts to resist Iraqi aggression," Mr. Bush's statement, released late Friday, said.
State Department officials argued that the bill's requirement of mandatory sanctions would have infringed on the President's Constitutional authority to conduct foreign affairs.
Since Congress is not in session, President Bush's refusal to sign the measure constitutes a pocket veto. The bill would have required the President to cut off American trade for one year with any company that assisted efforts to acquire, produce or use chemical or biological weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; IRAQ

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL WARFARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US); BIOLOGICAL WARFARE; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ARMS SALES ABROAD CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (92%); VETO (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ARMS TRADE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



646 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Fall in Light Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell and interest rates rose in light trading yesterday, as dealers used news of an Iraqi troop buildup in Kuwait as an excuse to take profits.
News from Baghdad that President Saddam Hussein intended to add 250,000 more troops stirred war fears in the market. The reports also sent oil prices higher, another negative for the fixed-income market. 
 "For the time being all of the good news is out," one trader in government bonds said. "The Fed has eased, and there are no economic reports for a while. To me that's a formula that says the market stays kind of soft through this week. But it's a thin, holiday market, and you can't put too much emphasis on what's going on."
 
 Mid-December Action
 On Friday, for the second time in less than a month, the Federal Reserve signaled the credit markets that it had lowered its target rate for the overnight Federal funds rate by a quarter of a percentage point, to 7 1/2 percent. Analysts said another easing move will almost certainly not be considered by the central bank until mid-December at the earliest.
In deference to Thanksgiving, the Public Securities Association, an international industry group of banks and brokerage firms, said yesterday that it recommended that trading in Treasury securities stop at 2 P.M. tomorrow and Friday.
"As the week progresses, more and more people will be out on vacation," said Stephen W. Gallagher, a money market economist at Kidder, Peabody & Company. "The fact that we will have these early market closes, a full day off and no new data gives us very little incentive to trade."
 
 Back Above 8.50 Percent
 The bulk of the selloff occurred early in the session. It was sufficiently large to push long-term interest rates back above 8.50 percent, a level that had been pierced late last week.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds were offered at a price of 102 18/32, down 23/32 late yesterday, to yield 8.51 percent. Late Friday the benchmark issue was offered at a price to yield 8.44 percent.
Among the note issues, the 8 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 101 2/32, down 11/32, to yield 8.34 percent. And the 7 3/4 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 1/4, down 3/ 32, to yield 7.60 percent.
Rates on new three-month and six-month Treasury bills rose slightly at the weekly auction yesterday. Three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.08 percent, up from 7.05 percent a week ago.
Bids on six-month bills produced an average discount rate of 7.05 percent, compared with 7.02 percent a week ago.
 
 New York City Notes Sold
 In the tax-exempt municipal bond market, a sale of $1.3 billion worth of short-term revenue anticipation notes for New York City went fairly well, according to investment bankers involved in the transaction.
The notes, which mature on June 28, 1991, were sold at a price to yield 6.50 percent. The rate was about 10 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, above the yield on the last revenue anticipation note sale in May.
As of late yesterday, between $400 million and $450 million of the notes remained in the hands of the underwriters, the investment bankers said.
"This was a solid transaction. It was not a blowout," said one banker, who asked not to be identified.
Lehman Brothers acted as lead manager for the negotiated sale. The securities are rated MIG-2 by Moody's Investors Service and SP-1 by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
 Offerings by Utilities
 The recent drop in interest rates brought in additional borrowers to the investment-grade corporate bond market yesterday. Among the new issuers were two utility companies, including the New York State Electric and Gas Corporation. The company offered $100 million of 9 7/8 percent first mortgage bonds through an undewriting syndicate led by Salomon Brothers.
The securities, which mature Nov. 1, 2020, were priced at 98.80 to yield 10 percent, 1.50 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 3/4 percent 30-year bonds at the time of pricing. The securities are rated Baa-1 by Moody's and BBB-plus by S.&P.
The Carolina Power and Light Company offered $100 million of three-year notes at competitive bidding. A group led by Morgan Stanley & Company won the issue, which was reoffered to investors with an 8 1/8 percent coupon at an initial price of 99.625 to yield 8.268 percent, 55 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 3/4 percent three-year notes at the time of pricing. The securities are rated A-2 by Moody's and A by S.&P.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, dealers said that prices of most issues dipped by about an eighth of a point.
Participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal securities said that prices of most widely quoted issues slid by about half a point.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
$ M03,23,15,15 3-Mo. Bills 6-Mo. Bills
 Average Price 98.230 96.455 Discounted Rate 7.08% 7.05% Coupon Yield 7.31% 7.41% High Price 98.233 96.460 Discounted Rate 7.07% 7.04% Coupon Yield 7.30% 7.40% Low Price 98.230 96.455 Discounted Rate 7.08% 7.05% Coupon Yield 7.31% 7.41% Accepted at low price 74% 73% Total applied for $29,506,285 $27,254,290 Accepted $10,000,960 $10,043,290 N.Y. applied for $25,763,295 $23,373,495 N.Y. accepted $8,329,245 $8,349,860 Noncompetitive $1,677,740 $1,229,085
 
Both these issues are dated Nov. 22, 1990. The three-month bills mature Feb. 21, 1991 and the six-month bills, May 23, 1991.

GRAPHIC: Chart: 3-Month Treasury Bills. (source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (92%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (66%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (55%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); THANKSGIVING (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



647 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off but Starts Rising After News of Move by Iraq

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar traded mostly lower yesterday, but it was lifted above its lows for the day by news that Iraq was moving more troops to Kuwait, traders said.
The dollar was mixed against major currencies in European trading. Traders said it was hurt by the Federal Reserve's decision Friday to ease interest rates, which tends to make dollar-denominated investments less appealing than other investments and hence reduces the appeal of the dollar itself. 
 That downward pressure on the dollar continued when domestic markets opened, said Lorenzo Troni, vice president of foreign exchange at Paine Webber Inc.
"And then we had the news that Iraq was sending some more troops on the border with Kuwait," Mr. Troni said. "The dollar strengthened a bit."
 
 Economic News Not a Factor
 He said there was no economic news of substance Monday "and so the political news was what moved the market."
The dollar traditionally is viewed as a safe-haven investment in times of international turmoil.
The dollar lost ground against the British pound and the Japanese yen but strengthened somewhat against the German mark.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 128.95 yen, down 0.78 yen from Friday's finish of 129.73 yen. Later, in London the dollar was quoted at 128.20 yen. In New York it was quoted at 128.75 yen, down from 129.50 late Friday.
In London the British pound rose to $1.9745, from $1.9655 late Friday. In New York, 1 cost $1.9750, more expensive than $1.9660 late Friday.
The dollar bought 1.4745 German marks in European trading, up from 1.4715 Friday. In New York, the dollar traded at 1.4717 marks, up from 1.4705 late Friday. Friday's figure was a low for the dollar against the mark.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.2450 Swiss francs, down from 1.2465; 4.9645 French francs, down from 4.9685; 1,108 Italian lire, down from 1,109.50, and 1.1634 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1633.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Friday, included: 1.2465 Swiss francs, up from 1.2445; 4.9745 French francs, up from 4.9690; 1.6628 Dutch guilders, up from 1.6595; 1,110.25 Italian lire, unchanged, and 1.1628 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1643.
Gold prices rose. On New York's Commodity Exchange, gold settled at $381.40 an ounce, up $2.50 from Friday. The Republic National Bank also quoted a late bid of $381.40, up $2.40 from Friday.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $379.60 an ounce, from $376.75 bid late Friday.
In Zurich, the metal rose to a closing bid of $378.75, from $376.20 late Friday. In Hong Kong, gold dropped $2.56 an ounce to close at $377.55.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); ZURICH (53%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (51%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BRITISH POUND (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (75%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



648 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: New York City Agencies Told to Find Added Cuts

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Preparing for the worst in the face of state budget cuts, the Dinkins administration yesterday told most New York City agencies to outline how they would cut up to 17.5 percent of their budgets for next year, and to consider eliminating some staff jobs and the purchase of nonvital supplies.
The city had already ordered most agencies to prepare cuts of 10 percent for the fiscal year that starts July 1, and contingency cuts of another 2.5 percent in case economic conditions worsened. Yesterday's announcement kept the 10 percent cut, but increased the contingency cut to 7.5 percent. Cityofficials said they hoped that not all the cuts would be needed. 
 In a directive to agency heads, Budget Director Philip R. Michael told them to review their contracting procedures to save money, for example, by cutting janitorial service to two days a week from four.
He also urged them to seek private money for city programs and to consider a freeze on the purchase of all administrative supplies, including cars and trucks.
Agencies must review whether some functions can be eliminated or consolidated with those of other agencies, he said. "I am fully cognizant of the extreme nature of the cuts most agencies are being asked to take or prepare for," Mr. Michael wrote. "Never before have potential cuts of 17.5 percent been taken in one year. To accomplish this feat, now more than ever before it is necessary to examine closely your agency's mission and close down programs and offices which are less essential than others."
The agencies' recommendations are due on Dec. 3.
Not all agencies would be forced to outline such large cuts. The Board of Education, the Health and Hospitals Corporation, the City University andthe Fire Department must propose cuts of 5 percent and contingencies of 3.75 percent. The police must outline savings of 1 percent through internal efficiency, while jails, probation, District Attorneys and juvenile justice are to outline savings of 5 percent. No criminal-justice agency would have to recommend contingency cuts.
 
 Possible Unpaid Furloughs
 City agencies have just finished cutting 4 percent of their current budgets to help close a gap of almost $400 million this year. Next year's gap is projected to be about four times as large.
Parks Commissioner Elisabeth F. Gotbaum said she hoped she could make many of the new cuts by having seasonal workers take unpaid furloughs of a few days each. But if she were forced to lay off workers, shesaid, field maintenance would be severely affected.
The 4 percent cuts already made would translate to $349 million in savings next year. To meet the other 6 percent cuts to fulfill a 10 percent target, another $410 million would be needed. The 7.5 percent contingency plan would require still another $538 million, for a cumulative total of $1.3 billion.
But some fiscal experts have said the city could not sustain cuts of such magnitude and provide acceptable service. Mr. Michael's memo did not address what new taxes might also be sought.
Mr. Michael stressed that it was not clear exactly how next year's budget problem might worsen, but said that the city needed to update its planning, given the prospect of further deterioration in the local economy and deeper cuts in the state budget. On Saturday,Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said state aid to the city would be cut by at least $100 million in the state's current fiscal year, which ends in March.
Leland T. Jones, a spokesman for Mayor David N. Dinkins, said the Mayor had discussed the proposed contingencies with Mr. Michael and agreed to seek them before he left on Sunday for a weeklong vacation in Hilton Head, S.C.
Peg Breen, a spokeswoman for the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said the administration was "looking at the proper magnitude of cuts" to deal with the problem. She added, "We're especially pleased that he's looking at consolidating and eliminating functions, because that will be the thrust of the Council's approach."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUILDING & FACILITIES SERVICES (74%); SEASONAL WORKERS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (69%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



649 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: New England Bank Reports

BYLINE: REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Despite efforts to recapitalize $706 million in outstanding debt, the Bank of New England Corporation may still need regulatory aid or face possible insolvency, the Boston-based company said in Government documents released today.
"There can be no assurance that the recapitalization, if consummated, will necessarily be successful in restoring capital, liquidity and operating results to acceptable levels," the company said in a report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Even if the recapitalization is completed, Bank of New England will probably require additional funds to reach and maintain capital levels mandated by regulators or face the possibility of insolvency, the document said.
The bank's viability depends on its significantly reducing nonperforming assets and operating costs, but the continued deterioration in the New England economy and real estate market could adversely affect recovery efforts, the S.E.C. filing said.
The bank is engaged in talks with bondholders to renegotiate its $706 million corporate debt burden.
Other New England banks also said today in S.E.C. filings that the region's real estate woes would continue to take a toll.
"The widespread economic downturn continues to affect Northeast real estate markets adversely," said the Fleet/Norstar Financial Group, the banking company based in Providence, R.I., considered by most analysts to be the strongest bank in New England.
The Bank of Boston Corporation also said its real-estate loan portfolio might deteriorate further, leading to increased nonperforming assets and to more credit losses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); UBNK (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); UNITED FINANCIAL BANCORP INC (58%); NEW ENGLAND BANK & TRUST CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CORPORATE BONDS REAL ESTATE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



650 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
CBS said it expected a loss in the fourth quarter and lower 1991 earnings. The network attributed the poor results to losses from its baseball coverage as well as the overall slowdown in television advertising. An analyst at Smith Barney estimated the quarterly loss would be about $35 million. [Page D1.]
Quick settlement of thousands of Manville asbestos cases was promised under a plan that would give priority to the more seriously ill people among the claimants. [D1.]
Chrysler will operate nonstop at a mini-van plant, the first time that approach has been tried in the U.S. [D1.]
Greyhound Lines filed a reorganization plan that calls for it to repay much of what it owes its largest creditors. [D1.]
Laventhol's partners voted to file for bankruptcy and disband the accounting firm, some current and former partners said. [D7.]
Santa Fe Pacific said it would split into three units: real estate, petroleum and rail service. [D4.]
 
International
A much-disputed U.S.-Japan jet fighter project is causing new discord as the countries trade blame over delays, huge cost overruns and technical problems. [D1.]
The traders' strike that has closed the Milan exchange is causing Italian stockbrokers to worry about the long-range damage done to their nation's largest stock market. [D1.]
 
Markets
The stock market managed a gain even though bond prices came under pressure and the price of oil resumed its climb. The Dow rose 15.10 points, to 2,565.35. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury securities fell and interest rates rose in light trading, as dealers used news of an Iraqi troop buildup in Kuwait as an excuse to take profits. [D14.] New York City found strong demand at its auction of $1.3 billion in short-term notes but it had to pay a higher rate than at the last auction in May. [B3.]
Oil prices rallied sharply on news that Iraq would send an additional 250,000 troops into Kuwait. Crude settled at $31.50 a barrel for December delivery contracts, up $1.72. [D6.]
The dollar traded mostly lower, but got some lift from the reports out of Iraq. Gold prices rose. [D15.]
Record cash prices for cattle pushed the livestock futures market upward. [D15.]
An ex-officer of Bear, Stearns and two others were acquitted of criminal charges resulting from a seven-year investigation into stock-lending practices. [D8.]
 
The Economy
A survey of banks has found increased credit restraint, with a large majority tightening standards for commercial real estate loans, the Federal Reserve Board reported. [D2.]
Senator Dennis DeConcini made an indignant counterattack to charges that he had improper dealings with Charles H. Keating, the former savings and loan operator. [B8.] Prosecutors in California amended their charges against Keating. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Disposing of contaminated medical wastes is a growing business for waste-handling companies and an increasingly expensive problem for hospitals. Business and Health. [D2.]
Campaigns by oil companies to promote energy conservation are getting some skeptical reactions, even within the oil industry. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D17.]
Not knowing how long a fad will last, the people who control Fleer Corporation evidently have decided to cash in as soon as they can on the boom in baseball cards. Floyd Norris: Marketplace. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); 

COUNTRY: KUWAIT (92%); IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (58%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY LOSSES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); AUCTIONS (88%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BASEBALL (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); TOXIC TORTS (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); CREDIT REGULATION (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (72%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (71%); FUTURES (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (71%); ASBESTOS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); BONDS (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); DEBT NOTES (64%); SAVINGS & LOANS (63%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); MINIVANS (55%); 

PERSON: CHARLES H KEATING JR (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



651 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: New York City Sells Notes but Pays Higher Interest

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
New York City, entering the credit markets for the first time since the emergence of significant budget problems last month, sold $1.3 billion in short-term notes yesterday, amid a strong demand from investors, city officials said.
But to attract the investors, the city was forced to pay millions of dollars in higher interest costs on the notes because of the city's fiscal troubles. 
 "We feel relatively pleased; it wasn't as bad as some predicted," City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman said.
The sale of short-term notes was an important prelude to a more significant sale of more than $1 billion in long-term general obligation bonds in early December.
 
Higher Interest Cost
 The interest cost to the city on the notes was 6.85 percent. That cost is more than four-tenths of a percentage point higher than what the city paid in May, the last time it sold revenue notes. And this may understate the difference, because interest rates have fallen since then. For example, the yield on three-month treasury bills fell more than sixth-tenths of a percentage point.
For each extra tenth of a percentage point, the city pays $762,000 in interest. The notes were rated the same as the last revenue notes the city sold, MIG-2 by Moody's and SP-1 by Standard & Poor's, both a notch below the highest rating.
Stan Ciemniecki, an executive vice president at Lehman Brothers, the leading underwriter in the note sale, said the sale was a "very good deal," after taking into account that in the last few months both city bonds and notes had "deteriorated on a relative basis."
He said that underwriters received more than $1.9 billion in orders for the $1.3 billion in notes, and that at least 60 percent of the notes were bought by institutional investors.
 
Seeking Investor Confidence
 Yesterday's note sale was part of a campaign by city officials to shore up the confidence of investors since the announcements of expected budget deficits were followed by a drop in city bond prices and a rise in the return paid to investors.
Since then, the city has called for cuts to close a $388 million gap in this year's budget, as well as to begin addressing a gap of more than $1.6 billion next year.
After the fiscal problems surfaced, Mayor David N. Dinkins and Ms. Holtzman postponed the bond sale from November to December to give the city more time to develop and explain its plans to control its finances.
To avoid further uncertainty, the city canceled plans to hold an auction for the notes, and instead conducted a negotiated sale, in which the city underwriters take orders from customers and then negotiate a rate with the city based upon the demand.
Mr. Dinkins and Ms. Holtzman spoke at a meeting of investors last week, and their aides also held nine private meetings with large institutional investors to explain the city's new financial plan and reassure them that the notes were safe.
At a meeting of the city's underwriters last week, underwriters were told that the goal of the sale was "smoothness" to avoid even the hint of problems that could hurt the bond sale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTEREST (MONEY) DEBT NOTES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); CITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH CLARE SHORT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



652 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN EUROPE: THE NEW EUROPE;
What Is the Need for NATO Now? Where Do East Bloc Nations Fit In?

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 19

 BODY:
The signing of an East-West treaty today eliminating the Soviet Union's once-intimidating superiority in nonnuclear weapons in Europe may well be one of the final political acts of the Warsaw Pact. As a military alliance, it is already dead.
 "As a threat, you can forget it," NATO's Secretary General, Manfred Worner, said a few days ago. "As a military structure, it has ceased to exist. There's nothing, or practically nothing, left of it." 
 But while the demise of Communism in Eastern Europe is being hailed at a summit conference here, the disintegration of the Warsaw Pact has raised unexpected questions: Without a clear enemy, what is the need for NATO? And without the Warsaw Pact, where do Moscow and others find a place in the new Europe?
In the view of many Europeans, these were questions to be tackled at the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe this week, but the new structures being built here are more modest, leaving uncertainty about the future of both NATO and the former Soviet bloc.
 
All Influence Lost
 In recent months, events have seemingly moved too fast for such long-term planning. NATO experts say the Soviet Union has not only lost all influence over the armies of its Warsaw Pact partners, but is also facing increasing problems of discipline and morale, including mounting desertions, in its own armed forces.
With Moscow now committed to withdrawing all its troops from Eastern Europe, its former Soviet bloc partners have even stopped refering to the Warsaw Pact by name, describing it as the Group of Six and insisting that it retains none of the characteristics of a military alliance.
NATO has in turn lowered its guard. The United States is currently shipping half its Europe-based troops to the Persian Gulf. Britain recently announced that it would close two of its four air bases in Germany. All 55,000 French troops in Germany will soon come home. And Germany is reducing its own armed forces.
Yet the political message emanating from Washington, London and NATO headquarters in Brussels is that, more than ever, the Atlantic alliance is necessary to guarantee security in Europe. And it has both refused to find a place for the former Warsaw Pact and resisted competition from other emerging European institutions.
Specifically, while Moscow, Prague and other governments had hoped the summit conference this week would give birth to a new all-European security structure that left behind the era of the two military pacts, the United States blocked moves in that direction for fear of undermining NATO.
Further, as the 12-nation European Community begins debating the assumption of a security role of its own, perhaps by absorbing the Western European Union, a long-moribund regional defense body, the United States and Britain have insisted that this should take place only within the NATO framework.
"Any change must take place in such a way that it does not erode two essentials, NATO's integrated military structure and its political role," Mr. Worner said.
At its summit meeting in London in July, NATO recognized the new Europe by calling for a strategy that would move away from "forward defense" to a posture of "flexible response," with less reliance on nuclear weapons. But it continued to assume a Soviet threat and consider Moscow its adversary.
 
A Nonaggression Pledge
 Today, however, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact signed a mutual nonaggression pledge in which they proclaimed that they were no longer adversaries, raising additional questions about the role that an exclusive 16-nation alliance should play in a Europe that is not divided.
The gulf crisis has further complicated the search by NATO for a new identity because, under its charter, it has been unable to act militarily "out of area" beyond Europe and North America. And in the first crisis of the post-cold-war era, it has served simply as a consulting forum.
But in the debate about Europe's "new architecture," the focus is increasingly on political structures that can preserve stability. And with the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe at best the embryo of a pan-European organization, the fear is that the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe may feel excluded.
The European Community has indicated that it will accept no new members until the mid-1990's, while NATO itself has discouraged applications from Eastern Europe's new democracies. "If we accepted, say, Hungary and Czechoslovakia, Moscow could be pardoned for feeling paranoid," a senior Western official remarked.
NATO's Secretary General was even more specific, saying "we don't want to create additional problems" for the Soviet Union and its President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev. "What we all want now," Mr. Worner said, "is to establish a basis on which to stabilize Europe without changing the military and strategic equilibrium."
Yet with the Warsaw Pact expected to survive just a few months longer, Western officials recognize the difficulties of maintaining an equilibrium with only one military alliance. And increasingly in European capitals, the view is that NATO should become little more than an insurance policy.
NATO planners in Brussels still argue that the alliance should broaden its scope to deal with political, economic and even environmental security matters as well as military questions. But many governments are already counting the money they can save at NATO. As one American official put it, "NATO's strategy will eventually be determined by its resources."

GRAPHIC: Chart: Agreement on nonnuclear weapons in Europe signed by U.S., Soviet Union and their allies (Source: U.S. delegation to negotiations on the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); WARSAW PACT (1955) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: TREATIES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY BASES (77%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN MANFRED WORNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



653 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Vote Dispute Sours Party's Victory in Mexico

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NAUCALPAN, Mexico, Nov. 19

 BODY:
By renewing doubts about the fairness of Mexico's political system, the lopsided victory of the governing party in elections here appears to have turned into a public relations defeat for President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, diplomats and political analysts say.
With the official vote count completed late Sunday night, Mr. Salinas's Institutional Revolutionary Party was declared the winner by a landslide in the elections held here on Nov. 11 in Mexico state, just outside the capital. 
 But as the debate over allegations offraud and ballot irregularities continues, experts on both sides say the vote damaged Mr. Salinas's struggle to overcome his party's reputation for electoral abuse. The election may ultimately prove even more damaging, they warn, to his wider campaign to reshape Mexico's economy and its international image.
Foreign experts say that the appearance of corruption or election fraud could particularly discourage the foreign investment that Mr. Salinas needs to smooth the transition to a more open economic system. It could also serve as ammunition for foes of other elements of the Government's economic strategy, like the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the United States.
That agreement is to be a central item on Mr. Salinas's agenda when he meets with President Bush next week for two days of discussions in the northern city of Monterrey.
"The worry is that this will give people who would be hurt by the free trade agreement a more respectable reason to oppose it," a diplomat said. "Instead of saying, 'This is going to hurt my business,' they will say, 'How can Bush make deals with a dictatorship?' "
Even before the balloting, leaders of the P.R.I., as the party is known, acknowledged that they had more atstake than simple victory or defeat.
"We not only have to win the elections," Ignacio Pichardo Pagaza, the state Governor and a leading P.R.I. official, said before the vote. "We also have to convince public opinion that we won them cleanly."
 
Questionable Margins
 But the potential conflict between those goals quickly became apparent as the vote was counted and the party began to roll up improbably high margins in a state it had lost decisively in national elections only two years ago.
The results released today showed that the party won all 34 directly contested seats in the state legislature and leadership in 116 of the state's 121 municipalities. It received 53 percent of the vote in a field of eight parties.
The results have been directly challenged by large opposition groups like the Democratic Revolutionary Party and the National Action Party, which have accused the P.R.I. of irregularities ranging from ballot stuffing to tampering with voter lists.
The appearance of election fraud has also hurt smaller parties, which in some municipalities received fewer votes than the number of candidates on their slate, curiously suggesting that some candidates had not even voted for themselves.
"Before, the central characteristic of Mexican elections was their lack of competition," wrote Lorenzo Meyer, a respected Mexican political analyst and Government critic, in a recent front-page column in the Mexico City daily newspaper Excelsior. "Today that characteristic has been reduced to the simple absence of credibility."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MONTERREY, MEXICO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BALLOTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CORRUPTION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); 

PERSON: SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES); UHLIG, MARK A GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



654 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1651 words

HEADLINE: Auction Houses' Glitter Dims And Sellers Look to Dealers

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The allure of the auction market in the high-flying 80's, when collectors not only paid high prices but also could be seen doing so, is increasingly being replaced by more discreet buying and selling through dealers.
The sharp decline in prices at auctions in the last few weeks has brightened the outlook for dealers in everything from Old Master paintings and Chinese porcelains to contemporary art and jewelry. 
 In the last few years, sellers often passed over dealers in favor of the more visible and glamorous world of the auction houses, which served as the focus of frenzied activity and soaring prices. But now many prominent dealers say they are being offered goods they never would have dreamed of getting a few seasons ago.
 
Visibility: a 2-Edged Sword
 The very visibility of the auction houses, which made them the center of the marketplace at a time of rising prices, has become a liability when prices turn downward.
Peter Schaffer, an owner of A la Vieille Russie, a Fifth Avenue gallery that deals in Russian artworks and jewelry, said: "Three or four years ago, the best things were all going to auction. But the pendulum is finally swinging back in favor of the dealer, as people are beginning to realize the old adage 'A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush' is really true."
Diana D. Brooks, the president of Sotheby's in New York, said she also saw the beginning of a change. "There certainly is a shakedown," she said, "a greater opportunity for dealers to compete."
Privacy is one of the most important reasons that selling through dealers
that now seems more attractive. To stimulate sales, auction houses produce lavishly photographed catalogues that are mailed to prospective clients around the world. Then important objects are taken on tour to cities like Tokyo and London. If a work sells, all the public exposure has paid off. If the work fails to fetch the price the auction house has estimated it will bring, the piece can seem to have taken on a kind of public taint, and neither dealers nor collectors are likely to want it.
"For years the auction houses looked invincible," said Lawrence Rubin, the president of M. Knoedler & Company in Manhattan, a gallery on East 70th Street that specializes in 20th-century art. "But the level of greed and speculation rose to such heights the bubble finally burst. When prices stopped rising, people got scared."
Fear was certainly evident at the auctions of contemporary, Impressionist and modern art in the last two weeks. Overall, prices were lower than anticipated despite the auction house's conservative reserves, the confidential minimum prices accepted by the seller, below which the house will not sell property. Areas like contemporary art, in which there has been the greatest inflation in the last few years, were the hardest hit. At Sotheby's, for example, 58 percent of the contemporary works went unsold.
At each of these recent sales, standing-room-only crowds gasped, and hesitant buyers sat with paddles idly resting in their laps, when works by 19th- and 20th-century masters like van Gogh, Monet, Jasper Johns and Roy Lichtenstein failed to sell.
These major fall sales are crucial as the main profit source for the auction houses. They are important for dealers, too.
"Lower prices at auction means a dealer's inventory is worth that much less," said Eli Broad, a collector and founding chairman of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. "It's a general rule that in heated markets, as we've had over the last few years, collectors do better selling at auction. But when the market begins to suffer, the dealers are a better bet. Not only will they give you a good price, but dealers are discreet: they'll just show the work to a few collectors they know will be interested. A piece is not exposed to the whole free world."
As a result, privacy is becoming fashionable. So is anonymity. "Times are tough," said Khalil Rizk, a co-owner of the Chinese Porcelain Company on Madison Avenue at 69th Street. "There are people out there in real financial trouble. They need money, but they certainly don't want anyone to know it. Selling through a dealer is a totally private transaction."
 
Moving the Goods Faster
 Selling through dealers is also quicker than consigning at auction, since sellers do not have to wait months until the right auction comes along. (Auction houses hold sales for specific categories of art only once or twice a year.) "Dealers have the advantage of being able to pay in cash today," said Chris Jussel, of Vernay & Jussel, a furniture gallery on Madison Avenue at 57th Street.
Mr. Jussel said that at the International Antique Dealers Show in New York City in October, he bought his star piece, a $140,000 George III mahogany wine cooler, from a collector who used to buy and sell only at auction. "Selling through me was simply a safer bet," he said.
Although dealers are reluctant to admit it, business is slow for them, too, these days. At this fall's most prestigious antiques shows, both in New York City and abroad, sales were way down. (Mr. Jussel's wine cooler remains unsold.) Shops report far less traffic than they have had for years. "The recession is hitting us all," Mr. Jussel said.
Still, there are many reasons people are selling now rather than waiting until the market goes back up. For some, the issue is pure and simple: the need for money. Others, however, are forming collections and want to sell objects to gain the cash to trade up.
"We're also buying a lot from people who are moving into smaller homes and no longer have space," said Edward Munves, one of the owners of James Robinson Inc. in Manhattan, an East 57th Street gallery that deals in silver and jewelry.
 
Advantages of Consignment
 Dealers do more than make quick cash deals with collectors. Often, when time is not an issue, they will agree to try to sell a work on consignment, an agreement that is by no means new to the art market. Consigning to a dealer means having the luxury of time, of waiting for the desired price without the pressure of selling at a fixed date and place.
Since generally no money changes hands until a piece is sold, this is not an arrangement sought after by buyers the trade has labeled "investors or speculators," those who jumped on the art market bandwagon purely for profit. "The investors are fast disappearing," Mr. Rizk said.
"If I were in the market to sell, I'd do the same thing now that I would have done two years ago," said John Parkinson 3d, a photography collector in New York. "I'd talk to both the auction houses and the dealers. But today I'd be far more skeptical about what an auction house could do for me. There's been too much of a change in the market recently. A lot of people have been put off by seeing auction prices become so out of line."
 
'Distress Sale' Merchandise?
 Just what dealers are being offered for sale seems to be a matter of debate. While Christopher Burge, the president of Christie's in New York, said he thought it was far too early to tell how much dealers are really being offered, he did say, "What they are getting is pretty much distress-sale stuff, things people want to dispose of fast, and it's easier to do it through a dealer."
Many dealers disagree. "It's the auction houses that are getting the distress-sale merchandise," said Harold Sack, an owner of Israel Sack in Manhattan, an American-furniture gallery on East 57th Street. "As the auction houses are trying to push up the numbers for their sales, they are coming to the dealers to see what we can give them to fill up their auctions. And dealers are sending their least desirable goods."
For the most part, dealers admit they will never attract the large estate sales away from the auction houses, since the tax obligations afford estates the luxury of time for big presale promotions giving them the chance to reach the widest audience.
"But we're still getting things that are fresh to the market and that have come from good sources," said Julian Agnew of Agnew & Sons, a London-based gallery that specializes in Old Master paintings. "People go where they can get the best price and right now auctions are not it."
 
A Pattern, With Variations
 This is a familiar pattern that has been seen during other economic downturns. But the auction world was very different in 1974 and 1982. "The numbers are so much bigger," Mrs. Brooks, of Sotheby's, said.
And the public exposure has become so much greater as, over the last decade, auction houses have become retail establishments catering as much to the private collector as to the trade. "In the old days, auction rooms were filled only with dealers who would buy very quietly, and the public never really knew who bought what," Mr. Sack said. And, he said, during the 1982 recession the great pieces went into hiding as owners preferred to wait for better times if they could.
Many fine artworks are disappearing from the market, too. While there are still pieces to sell, both dealers and auction experts bemoan the lack of truly exceptional goods for sale. "It may be a time when people simply want less flash," Mrs. Brooks said. "We're already taking a low-key approach to auctions."
For this fall's big sales of contemporary, Impressionist and modern paintings and sculpture, for example, there were fewer hardbound catalogs than in previous seasons. Nor have there been as many presale parties. Moreover, objects have traveled to fewer cities for sales exhibitions.
For the first time in years, it seems, auction houses are feeling the heat, working to compete with dealers and, in the process, cut their operating costs. "We're going to have to adapt to changing times," Mrs. Brooks said. "Ultimately there will have to be more of an equilibrium, a more even balance of business between dealers and auction houses."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Dealers have the advantage of being able to pay in cash today," said Chris Jussel, owner of Vernay & Jussel, a Madison Avenue furniture gallery. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. C16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS; ART; ANTIQUES; FURNITURE; SALES; PRICES AUCTIONS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PAINTING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ART DEALERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); 

PERSON: JUSSEL, CHRISTIAN; VOGE, CAROL DIANA D BROOKS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



655 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
President Bush failed to win consent from President Gorbachev on a proposal for a United Nations resolution that would authorize the use of military force against Iraq. Page A1
The troops are preparing for war. In the Second Battalion of the Seventh Marines, the men have drawn their own conclusions from the news there will be no rotation home. A1
Iraq said it was bolstering its forces in occupied Kuwait and southern Iraq with 250,000 troops. The move came in response to U.S. plans to send 200,000 more troops. A1
Iraq's repositioning of troops weakens its other fronts A13
The President's policies worry many Americans, a new poll has found. A majority say he has been too quick to commit American military force and has not been working hard enough on a diplomatic solution. A12
American family arrives in Iraq in search of their brother A13
An arms-control treaty for Europe was signed by President Bush, President Gorbachev and 20 other leaders of NATO and Warsaw Pact nations. They pledged to destroy thousands of conventional weapons. A1
News analysis: The Warsaw Pact may have committed one of its final acts in signing the treaty that ends Soviet superiority in non-nuclear weapons in Europe, raising new questions about the new Europe. A14
 Reporter's Notebook: At the summit, a glance homeward A15
Boris Yeltsin rejected the proposal by President Gorbachev to overhaul governmental powers in the Soviet Union, but he called for a compromise that would give full sovereignty to the Soviet republics. A1
Prime Minister Thatcher's opponent, Michael Heseltine, has vowed to build on the economic gains Mrs. Thatcher has made, while avoiding her self-destructing positions on the poll tax and European unity. A3
Milan Stock Exchange shut down by strike over new tax D1
Prime Minister Michel Rocard, whose Socialist Government in France is under fire for imposing a 1.1 percent social security tax, survived a no-confidence vote in the National Assembly. A3
Ontario's new left-wing premier surprises business leaders A7
Election dispute sours Mexican president's victory A5
Nelson Mandela tells backers to "intensify the struggle" A4
Pretoria Journal: South Africa's own little drummer girl A4
 
NATIONAL A16-19, B8-9
Dennis DeConcini defended himself before the Senate Ethics Committee by launching an angry attack on the panel's special counsel. The Senator said he was the victim of "lies and allegations and hearsay." B8
A man set himself afire at the Capitol and burned to death, leaving no clues to his identity or the reason for his suicide. Officials were trying to determine whether his suicide was linked to any political issue. A16
Chicopee Journal: The sounds of protest rise in Massachusetts A16
Washington at Work: Tom Twetten, who has been a spy for the C.I.A. for more than 30 years, has emerged from the shadows to become the agency's new deputy director for operations. A18
CNN says it expects court toallow it to televise tapes A19
The Roman Catholic bishops' voice for the church's anti-abortion campaign is Helen Alvare, a 30-year-old lawyer who has been helping the bishops write briefs for Supreme Court cases on abortion. A16
Bank chairman abducted in Minnesota A18
Florida executes convicted murderer as victim's son watches B9
CBS said it expects a big loss for the fourth quarter and lower earnings for 1991. The announcement reflects the deepening economic crisis facing the broadcast networks. D1
Chrysler plans to operate a plant 24 hours a day D1
Greyhound files financial reorganization plan D1
 
REGIONAL B1-6
A barge owned by the Frank family, which has been accused of polluting New York Harbor, contains as much as 50,000 gallons of oil contaminated by polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, Federal regulators said. B1
The riddle of a homeless man's death two months ago has been solved by the police, who charged a career criminal with the stabbing. But the man's riches-to-rags life remains a mystery. B1
Homeless woman accused of killing her 3-week-old son B3
Fifth and sixth Bensonhurst slaying trials open B3
Daily News strikers request investigation of police hostility B5
Can New York City cut anymore? Mayor Dinkins told most city agencies to outline how they would trim 17.5 percent from their budgets for next year and to consider cutting some jobs. B5
Schools Chancellor outlines plans for more cuts B5
Budget cuts would harm the bridges in New York City, engineers said.Such cuts, they said, would hamper the maintenance of the city's 842 bridges, more than half of which are structurally deficient. B4
New York City sells notes but pays higher interest B4
The trial of a personal-injury lawyer and some of his colleagues on charges of wholesale corruption has provided an unsavory glimpse behind the curtains of a large personal-injury law firm in Manhattan. B1
The Orphan Train Movement, a forerunner of today's foster care system, sent more than 100,000 orphaned or abandoned children from New York City to families out West. This week some of them will return. B3
Lowell Weicker's budget adviser will be State Representative William Cibes. The choice was seen as a sign that the Governor-elect is considering an income tax to fight Connecticut's fiscal crisis. B1
New Jersey votes to repeal truck sales tax B6
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
SCIENCE TIMES
Computer images helping analyze large amounts of data C1
In pursuit of a perfect-pitch gene C1
Wetlands of Louisiana are disappearing C1
Science Q&A C7
Personal Computers C8
Science Watch C12
 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
The luster of the auction houses has dimmed since the 1980's, when sellers passed over dealers for the visible and glamorous auction market. Now collectors are buying and selling more discreetly through dealers. A1
Milli Vanilli loses its Grammy C15
Contest for jazz trumpeters C15
Lincoln Center opens new building C22
Film: Black film, white audience C15
Word and Image: Analyzing 1930's romantic film comedies C19
 
FASHION PAGE B11
For Spring, goodbye navy suit, hello joie de vivre
 
OBITUARIES B10
David Lloyd Kreeger, insurance official and arts patron
 
SPORTS
The coaching style of Bill Parcells, with its emphasis on a relationship with players that transcends sports, has enhanced the performace of the New York Giants as one of the best teams in football. A1
Baseball: Bonds is voted m.v.p. B13
Majors scouting for minor league homes B13
Basketball: N.B.A. Notebook B16
Column: Berkow on Arizona's vote B13
Football: Eagles are Giants' next hurdle B13
Georgia Tech still No. 1 B13
Coslet redirects blame to Jets B15
Manley is reinstated, then released B15
Tennis: Women wrap up on historic note B14
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
Editorials A20
Dancing fast in Moscow
Governor Cuomo's rush to cut
Disgrace: not just Noriega's
Letters A20
A. M. Rosenthal: Five missing words A21
John B. Judis: George Bush, meet Woodrow Wilson A21
Richard Pipes: Soviet Army coup? Not likely A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (59%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; GREAT BRITAIN; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) ; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: MILITARY ACTION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); ETHICS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); EVIDENCE (62%); SUICIDE (62%); STOCK EXCHANGES (62%); BURN INJURIES (60%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) ; ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



656 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN EUROPE;
East and West Sign Pact to Shed Arms in Europe

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 19

 BODY:
President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union, joined by leaders of 20 other nations that make up the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact, signed the most ambitious arms-control treaty in history today, pledging to destroy tens of thousands of tanks, howitzers and other nonnuclear weapons.
"What a long way the world has come!" Mr. Gorbachev exulted.
Having underlined the end of the cold war that divided East and West for more than four decades, the two Presidents turned their eyes to the future, taking leading roles in the first session of the three-day Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. The 34 participants at the conference -- Canada, the United States and all the countries of Europe except Albania -- hope to draw up a charter for the region. 
 The Persian Gulf crisis lurked just offstage, and Mr. Bush was quick to press for support in the effort to force Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait by diplomatic or military means. "Success here," he said, "can be neither profound nor enduring if the rule of law is shamelessly disregarded elsewhere."
At the meeting, held at the Kleber International Conference Center near the Arc de Triomphe, the 69 delegates -- presidents, prime ministers, foreign ministers and the like -- sat at a hexagonal table surrounding three-foot-high cutout maps of North America and Eurasia that resembled pieces from a jigsaw puzzle for giants. There were 67 men and two women: Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain and Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland of Norway.
Mr. Bush hailed the treaty as "the most far-reaching arms agreement" ever negotiated. The result of two years of painstaking bargaining in Vienna, the accord was also a bit of an anticlimax. It represents a ratification in the military sphere of what has already taken place in political terms.
The military confrontation between the two alliances has evaporated, the Soviets are preoccupied with domestic economic and political crises, the Warsaw Pact's days may be numbered, and NATO is having trouble finding a new role. And today, in addition to the arms treaty, the NATO and Warsaw Pact leaders signed a declaration saying that they were "no longer adversaries and will establish new relations of partnership and mutual friendship."
 
Active Sense of History
 The air was thick with comparisons to the Congress of Vienna in 1815, at the end of the Napoleonic wars, and the Conference of Versailles in 1919, after World War I.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany said that in building "a Europe of eternal peace" the conferees should look to the French Revolution, the Magna Carta and the Declaration of Independence for inspiration, as well as the writings of the 18th-century philosopher Kant, who he said was an advocate of unity among European states.
In the last two centuries, Mr. Kohl said, "Europe and my country in particular became the epicenter of worldwide catastrophes."
"It is the first time in history that we witness a change in depth of the European landscape that is not the outcome of a war or a bloody revolution," said President Francois Mitterrand. "We do not have sitting here either victors or vanquished but free countries equal in dignity."
 
Talks to Last Till Wednesday
 The summit conference will end at midday Wednesday with the signing of an agreement that will establish a conflict-resolution center in Vienna and a secretariat for the 34-member group in Prague -- a tribute to President Vaclav Havel of Czechoslovakia, who has come to symbolize the sprint toward democracy that has transformed Eastern Europe in the last 18 months.
Foreign ministers of the member countries will meet every year and the leaders every other year to monitor progress toward the creation of new European institutions and other ties. Next year the foreign ministers will meet in Berlin on June 19 and 20.
The European security process began when 35 participants -- the current 34 plus East Germany, which has since merged with West Germany -- met in Helsinki in 1975 to sign an accord on cooperation and human rights. After Mr. Gorbachev's accession to power a decade later, it took on new significance.
Today's events, five years to the day after Mr. Gorbachev and President Bush first meet in Geneva, began with the arms accord.
 
Americans Are Optimistic
 Mr. Bush said the treaty, signed beneath the glittering chandeliers of Elysee Palace, "signals the new world order that is emerging." President Mitterrand told his colleagues that they were "putting an end to the previous age."
NATO's top military commander, Gen. John Galvin, an American, said that the treaty was "good for Europe and good for the world."
A senior French diplomat involved in negotiating the pact said: "It would have been tragic if the treaty had not been achieved. Many of the ablest people in many countries worked so hard to bring it about. But it was only possible when it no longer mattered so much -- indeed precisely because it no longer mattered so much."
The 160-page agreement, plus three associated declarations, covers forces based between the Atlantic Ocean and the Ural Mountains, which cut across the Soviet Union from north to south, dividing its European from its Asian territory, and between the Arctic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea.
 
Less Hardware for All
 By far the biggest cuts will be made in Central Europe, the cockpit of the cold war, where both sides once expected catastrophe and where, instead, the revolutions of 1989 brought the confrontation to an end.
NATO and the Warsaw Pact will each be limited to 20,000 tanks, 20,000 artillery pieces, 30,000 armored fighting vehicles, 6,800 combat aircraft and 2,000 attack helicopters. The West will have to make only a tenth of the cuts, which will eliminate the Warsaw Pact's longstanding edge in the number of conventional arms in Europe.
To keep either side from concentrating its forces, limits also apply to specified zones and to individual nations. Troops are not covered, and their limits are to be negotiated later in Vienna, but the United States and Germany have agreed to ceilings outside the formal agreement -- no more than 195,000 American troops in Central Europe and no more than 370,000 in the unified German armed forces.
In fact, neither the United States nor the Soviet Union is likely to maintain as many troops in the region as it is entitled to.
In an era when the continent's problems lie not in conflicting ideologies but in economic and structural problems, like renewed conflicts in the Balkans and even the survival of a unitary Soviet state, large land armies seem irrelevant.
 
New Arms Talks Soon
 Mr. Gorbachev said in his speech that he wanted to press ahead as quickly as possible with other arms-reduction measures, presumably so that he can husband scarce Soviet resources to help satisfy the pent-up craving for food and other consumer goods.
He said he would be ready in a month or two to begin negotiations on short-range nuclear arms in Europe, and he reiterated that he wanted to extend talks to cover warships, a topic that the United States has kept off the agenda.
The Soviet leader warned his fellow delegates not to surrender to euphoria, and there was a reminder of the tensions of the past within hours of the signing of the arms treaty. President Bush's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, said that the United States questioned some of the data supplied by the Soviet Union under terms of the accord.
"It looks like there may be some problems there," he told the Cable News Network in an interview. Military analysts said that the difficulty concerned Soviet artillery pieces.
Data can be adjusted by either side over a 90-day period.
Differences also emerged on the Baltic republics, with Denmark, Sweden and Italy urging the Soviet Union to give more sympathy to these areas' drives for independence and Mr. Gorbachev warning of the dangers of "Lebanonization."
 
Political Fractures Feared
 "Militant nationalism and mindless separatism can easily bring conflict and enmity, Balkanization and even, what is worse, the Lebanonization of different regions," Mr. Gorbachev said, alluding to his and other nations' problems with secessionism and ethnic strife. "Both could put a brake on European cooperation and contradict the European process."
The foreign ministers of the three Baltic republics -- Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania -- are in Paris as the guests of the French Government for the week, but the Soviet Union has succeeded in blocking their admission to the conference.
The gathering of so many national leaders in one city created extraordinary security problems.
More than 10,000 police officers were deployed, some of them as rooftop sharpshooters. The constant to-and-fro of fleets of limousines snarled the traffic in the center of the city on a bright, blustery day.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 36 participants in the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe as they gathered for a portrait. An identification key is on page A14. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Delegates from 34 nations gathered yesterday in Paris for the opening of the three-day Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. (Associated Press) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORWAY (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); GULF STATES (56%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); WARSAW PACT (1955) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE ; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); ALBANIA; CANADA

SUBJECT: TREATIES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NAVIES; CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); WORLD WAR I (71%); NAVIES (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



657 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: An All-Black Film (Except the Audience)

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 19

 BODY:
"To Sleep With Anger" is a highly praised new film that has a black cast, a black director, a black writer and tells the story of a middle-class black family. Yet to the dismay and puzzlement of those who made and are marketing the movie, it has typically been performing five times as well in white neighborhoods as in black neighborhoods.
Alarmed at Hollywood's reluctance to make films dealing with black themes and fearful that the commercial failure of an artistic all-black film will only worsen such prospects, groups like the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People are now urging blacks to support the film. So far, however, those efforts seem to have had little impact, and the movie's limited promotional budget is now being directed at a wider audience. 
 Released last month to enthusiastic reviews, "To Sleep With Anger" stars Danny Glover as an interloper who disrupts the lives of a loving and tightly knit black family in Los Angeles. In New York it opened at four theaters, including the Nova in Harlem, but it is now playing only at the Angelika Film Center on Houston Street to what the film's distributors describe as a "classic art-house crowd."
 
'In Specialty Houses'
 "The numbers and the pattern have been the same everywhere, regardless of how we use television, radio, newsprint and public appearances to support this picture," said Tom Rothman, head of production at the Samuel Goldwyn Company , which is distributing the film. "This picture has performed well in specialty houses, but in so-called black theaters across the country, the performance has been significantly less."
The Goldwyn Company, an independent distributor, took on "To Sleep With Anger" after none of Hollywood's major studios showed an interest in the film. Though "To Sleep With Anger" was awarded a special jury prize at the Sundance United States Film Festival in January and won enormous critical praise at the Cannes International Film Festival in May, Hollywood has regarded it as a "difficult sell" from the start because of its subject matter and presumed audience appeal.
The director of the film, Charles Burnett, received a "genius grant" from the MacArthur Foundation in 1988, and the Library of Congress last month designated his first movie, "Killer of Sheep," 1 of 25 culturally and artistically significant motion picutres to be included in the National Film Registry. He has never had a commercial success, though, and is virtually unknown in Hollywood.
 
Question of Marketing
 Mr. Burnett, who made "To Sleep With Anger" on a budget of less than $1.5 million, said he was disappointed by the film's performance among blacks but thought it reflected not an absence of interest but rather a lack of effective marketing. "It's not that the black community is not responding," he said. "It's that they don't know anything about it. The problem has really been trying to communicate with black audiences."
The N.A.A.C.P. chapter here sent a letter to many black community groups and newspapers saying that "a wonderful family film has been released but is not being seen by our community."
"Since black audience draw appears to be the criteria by which studios evaluate the validity of black films, we are determined to provide that audience," the organization said in a separate statement, which also complained that "the picture may have been miscommunicated to our people."
"These studios need to be educated," said Patricia Tobin, a public relations agent here who is president of the Black Public Relations Society and has worked on publicity campaigns for Spike Lee's films. "We African-Americans are a special market, and you have to market to us in a certain way."
 
Role of Black Churches
 Citing one example of specialty marketing, Ms. Tobin said Goldwyn should have made more of an effort to show "To Sleep With Anger" to pastors of black churches. "The black church is a power base in the community," she said, "so you set up special screenings and get some word of mouth going."
Goldwyn executives said they did hire a black public relations specialist and that "To Sleep With Anger" was shown to special audiences, not just church leaders but also the N.A.A.C.P. and the National Association of Black Journalists, both of which had conventions here this summer. The results, Mr. Rothman said, were disappointing.
"I can't tell you how hard we have worked to get the black press," Mr. Rothman said. "We have worked day and night on this, and it is only fair to say we have been disappointed with the lack of support. The Sentinel, the black paper here, didn't even have a review of the film the day it opened, and this is Mr. Burnett's home town."
Though Jet magazine has published a story on Mr. Burnett and his film, two other leading black publications, Ebony and Essence, have not. Mr. Burnett said he thought part of the problem was that Hollywood studios "just call up out of the blue once every two years or so instead of having an ongoing relationship" with black publications, a notion that Ms. Tobin also endorsed.
 
'A Two-Way Street'
 "The major magazines are tired of giving them editorial space and not getting back any ads," she said. "It's a two-way street, so I don't blame them. It all comes back to economics." Goldwyn did buy one full-page advertisement in Jet magazine, company executives said.
Goldwyn executives also said that market research indicated race was not the primary factor in determining audience response to the film. "What we've found from looking at grosses and going to the theaters is that the audiences we have attracted have been separated not by race but by class," said Steve Rothenberg, Goldwyn's vice president for theatrical distribution. "This film is appealing mostly to the middle and upper classes, both black and white, not blue-collar blacks or whites. So we are tailoring our distribution plan to attract the upper class, and that's who is starting to discover it."
Mr. Burnett, however, has not abandoned his efforts to attract a mass black audience to the film, which has earned $325,000 at the box office. "People have been going around putting up posters in Washington and Chicago, and we've been going on radio stations" with black audiences, he said.
 
Need for More Money
 In addition, the producers of the film are now seeking more money for ads and other promotion. But Goldwyn executives argue that they cannot afford to aim such efforts primarily at the black audience that had been assumed to identify most closely with the film.
"The audience for any specialized picture is the white audience," Mr. Rothman said. "That audience tends to be more review-driven, and this film has gotten absolutely fabulous reviews. We are fighting tooth and nail to hang on until December," when it is expected that many film critics will include "To Sleep With Anger" on their annual "10 Best" lists and "get some word of mouth going so this picture can build."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Danny Glover in the all-black film "To Sleep With Anger," which has not fared well with black audiences. (TSWA Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SG (AMEX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (91%); 

SUBJECT: BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (79%); WRITERS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); FESTIVALS (73%); LIBRARIES (71%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (70%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (65%); MAMMALS (63%); FOUNDATIONS (62%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



658 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
Senators and Their TV Awareness

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
Several players in the current hearings of the Senate Ethics Committee have noted that there are television cameras in the committee room, and viewers of C-Span and CNN may be noticing the effects of that awareness on the five Senators under investigation. 
 Without uttering a word on opening day, John Glenn managed to distance himself emphatically from the four others. He was the only one without a lawyer by his side. It was a visual declaration by Mr. Glenn that he had done nothing to require that sort of assistance. (The sight of Alan Cranston's table, occupied by two lawyers and no Senator, carried a quite different signal.)
 Mr. Glenn sat alone at his little table, back rigid, shoulders squared, looking ahead sternly while Robert S. Bennett, the committee's special counsel, presented details of the five's involvement with Charles H. Keating Jr., the soiled savings-and-loan executive. Mr. Glenn, palms down on the green felt of the table, scarcely moving, never relaxing, presented a model of rectitude, or at least of good posture.
By an accident of alphabet, Mr. Glenn was seated smack in the middle of the five, so that on Friday morning, when he was late in arriving, his empty table served to separate Mr. Cranston and Dennis DeConcini, the two whom Mr. Bennett called "by far the most active" in behalf of Mr. Keating, from John McCain and Donald W. Riegle Jr., who by Mr. Bennett's account were less involved. The gap gave visual force to the efforts of Mr. McCain to dissociate himself from his fellow Senator from Arizona, Mr. DeConcini.
In his half-hour defense on Friday, Mr. Glenn, still seated alone at his table, seemed at moments to be talking about somebody else: "John Glenn does not peddle influence, period." The self-tribute sent forth the message that this man was above the need for a lawyer, or any props to declare his guiltlessness.
Mr. McCain spoke even more briefly; he took 10 minutes to report simply that he had said no to what he considered improper requests by his old friend and contributor, Mr. Keating. In a show of self-assurance, Mr. McCain would later take calls over C-Span; the callers did not seem to have been much reassured.
It remained for Mr. McCain's lawyer, John Dowd, to blame Senator DeConcini, who could be seen making notes and occasionally shaking his head slightly in what might have been meant to signify disbelief, for embroiling Mr. McCain. Mr. Dowd made much of the fact that Mr. Keating had called Mr. McCain "a wimp" for refusing to put pressure on officials of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to take it easy on Mr. Keating. Some viewers must have remembered that Mr. McCain had been a prisoner of war in Vietnam.
By taking it on himself to criticize Mr. DeConcini, the lawyer spared his client the appearance of impugning the actions of a colleague, from his own state at that. And it was also more becoming that heavy praise for Mr. McCain should not issue from his own lips.
Perhaps a media consultant had told Mr. Riegle that viewers require props to abet comprehension. He brought with him a jigsaw puzzle, which he displayed to the committee and the cameras several times. The point was, "We don't have all the pieces of the puzzle." Get it?
Mr. Bennett had said only that Mr. Riegle had "played an active role in early stages in the case," a mild slap. But Mr. Riegle went on for almost 90 minutes (interrupting himself occasionally to say, "I don't want to go on too long here") and risked coming across as protesting too much. About an hour into his explanations that his contacts with Mr. Keating were in the interests of Detroit's sorry economy and his professions of commitment to public service, the camera panned over the faces of the committee members. You could see a veil of exhaustion descending. A television reviewer would have had to convict Mr. Riegle of cruelty to his peers.
The star of Friday's appearances was Mr. Cranston. The news that he was suffering from cancer of the prostate had been confirmed the day before by a letter from the Senator, which included the names of all the hospitals where his condition had been diagnosed. So his presentation on Friday would probably be the Senator's sole on-camera response to assertions that he had promoted Mr. Keating's interests even while he was successfully soliciting the businessman for hundreds of thousands of dollars in political contributions.
Several large white boards had been set up, raising the promise of some revelation. They turned out merely to carry the names of Senators and their staff members responsible for raising money; the camera duly rolled down the list, documenting Mr. Cranston's point that everybody did it, or anyway, something like it. As visual aids go, these were not enthralling, but they were all the detail that Mr. Cranston was to offer.
He used his half-hour instead to avow his reverence for "this great institution of democracy," "this body which I love." Referring to his reported pro-Keating pressures on bank regulators, he spoke harshly of "bureaucrats" and asked his colleagues, "Can you only help people who haven't contributed, or who haven't contributed lately?" He seemed bent on persuading the nation that Alan Cranston was not one to discriminate against a constituent just because he was rich.
Perhaps it was in part the viewer's knowledge of Mr. Cranston's illness that made him look so thin. His condition was an implicit plea for sympathy, to which he added family feeling. When he expressed indignation over the "false charges attacking my flesh and blood," the camera went to members of his family. And he appealed to "listeners around the country" to share his distress at having his "wonderful son," Kim, who ran voter-registration groups that received $850,000 in Keating contributions, implicated by Mr. Bennett. In its dips into bathos, Mr. Cranston's script borrowed from those made-in-Hollywood shows that tend to be more popular with audiences than with critics.
Yesterday, it was the turn of Mr. DeConcini, who, in Mr. Bennett's telling, had been particularly active in Mr. Keating's interests. Although he had tough words for Mr. Bennett's treatment of some of the evidence -- "disgraceful," "unconscionable," "biased" -- he characterized himself as the sort of hands-on, sleeves-rolled-up (at one point he actually pushed up his jacket sleeves) Senator who goes all-out for service to constituents. "What is wrong," he asked, "with intervention for someone who sends you a check for your campaign?"
The statement, which ran about two hours, not counting the remarks of his lawyer, was striking for its attacks on the motives of Mr. Bennett, who Mr. De Concini shouted, wanted "to nail somebody" and put "another trophy on the wall," and on Common Cause, the liberal lobby that brought the charges against the five. Its motive, said the Senator, was to raise money, get members and damage Congress.
If these assaults were meant to ingratiate him with viewers, they were probably misdirected at a time when negative campaigning is in bad odor. But despite an occasional remark straight into the camera, his appeal was mainly to his fellow Senators, he and they together against the bureaucracy, the press, Common Cause and Mr. Bennett. "But for the grace of God," he cautioned in his peroration, "there go I -- or you." The single blemish on senatorial solidarity was in reference to Mr. McCain, who had already failed Mr. DeConcini. In addition to suggesting that his colleague's memory was faulty, Mr. DeConcini argued that Mr. McCain had enjoyed softer treatment by the committee counsel than he had.
Whatever the television audience may have made of Mr. DeConcini's explanation of his relationship with Charles Keating, it was informative about the workings of at least one senator's office. Viewers who have never had the privilege of a personal meeting with a senator may have been left wondering: could they expect that kind of constituent service? "That's what has made me the Senator I am," said Mr. DeConcini.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (50%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOME LOAN BANK FSB (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN (IRVINE, CALIF)

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ETHICS; CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS; TELEVISION; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAWYERS (75%); BUSINESS ETHICS (73%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); 

PERSON: KEATING, CHARLES; GLENN, JOHN (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); RIEGLE, DONALD W JR (SEN); CRANSTON, ALAN (SEN); DECONCINI, DENNIS (SEN) JOHN MCCAIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



659 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Baseball Is Scouting Minor League Homes

BYLINE: By CLAIRE SMITH

 BODY:
Major league baseball, facing a prospect that it must groom its own players because of a contract dispute with its farm teams, is scouting sites from college fields to towns long ago abandoned by professional baseball as possible homes for a reorganized system that could hold as many as 170 minor league teams.
"We've already started down the track, getting the documentation together," Bill Murray, the director of baseball operations and chief negotiator for the major leagues, said yesterday. "Franchise applications are being drawn up. Advertisements for such franchises are being prepared for the usual sports media outlets." 
 Such movement is taking place because talks have stalled on a new contract between the major leagues and the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues.
The association is the governing body of approximately 150 minor leagues teams. The contracts that bound about 60 of the minor league teams to parent clubs have expired during the battle over an overall professional baseball agreement.
 
Contract Expires Jan. 12
 Disputes over economics and control of the minor leagues have held up the overall agreement, and the current contract expires Jan. 12. As that date draws nearer, both sides are preparing for life without each other for the first time in 87 years.
Major league baseball has talked of contingencies all along but, for the first time, seems to have increased its proposed scale of operations. At first, talk centered on "complex" baseball, with games limited to those that could be played at spring training complexes in Florida and Arizona. That is now being considered on a "worst-case basis," Murray said.
"We have complexes in Florida and Arizona that could do the job," Murray said, "but that's not what we want, nor what we intend to do. What we intend to do is go out and seek as many locations where minor league baseball was played in 1990 and see how many of those sites are available. We're also going to look for alternate sites."
 
Looking for Leases
 Among the alternatives, Murray said, "would be the close to 40 cities that once had professional baseball teams but were abandoned by the minor leagues in the last 10 years."
"We've also been in contact with the N.C.A.A. and that governing body for colleges has informed us that it has no restrictions to prohibit us from renting its facilities," Murray said.
Baseball is also exploring the possibility of renting current minor league facilities but, Murray said, such city-by-city dealings would depend on the nature of each lease teams already on site have.
Murray said that as soon as leases for the new team sites are signed, the majors will abandon attempts to agree to a new deal with the National Association.
 
Inquiries About Franchises
 Murray said that the major leagues have also received inquiries about the acquisition of franchises from people who are not currently involved in minor league baseball.
The major leagues could field minor league teams in cities where the original farm clubs are still playing if the National Association operates independently.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GAMES LTD (66%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (93%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES; MINOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (98%); CONTRACTS LAW (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



660 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;
Shoal Creek Versus Arizona

BYLINE: By Ira Berkow

 BODY:
Some view the racial implications of membership policies at Shoal Creek, and at other golf clubs that host tournaments, and the Martin Luther King Jr. vote in Arizona as the same. There are similarities, but there are more ways in which the two cases are dramatically different.
 Early last summer, Hall Thompson, the founder of the Shoal Creek Country Club near Birmingham, Ala., which was to be site of the P.G.A. Championship in August, said, "We don't discriminate in every other area except the blacks," and that "we won't be pressured" into having any as members. 
With that, black groups effectively sought boycotts by television sponsors of the tournament. Under pressure, the club then admitted a black man as an honorary member.
 The Professional Golfers' Association of America, which runs the P.G.A. Championship, the PGA Tour and the United States Golf Association have since issued edicts that none of their tournaments (including the United States Open) will be played at private clubs that have discriminatory policies concerning members.
 When on Nov. 6 the state of Arizona put to referendum whether to have a paid legal holiday in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the voters turned down the proposal by a 1 percent margin on 1 million ballots cast.
 Immediately, the commissioner of the National Football League, Paul Tagliabue, announced that he would recommend to the team owners to remove Phoenix as host of the 1993 Super Bowl.
 Earlier this year, the N.F.L. had agreed to hold the Super Bowl in Phoenix, but with one major provision: that, in eight months, the voters of Arizona elect to have a Martin Luther King Day. Arizona is one of only three states in the union that does not have some kind of day honoring King.
 Phoenix and suburban Tempe (where the game would be played), and Tucson, however, do observe Martin Luther King Day.
 Nonetheless, said Tagliabue, no King Day, no Super Bowl Week.
 Tagliabue was being sensitive to the blacks in his league, who include 56 percent of the players. As a private organization, the N.F.L. has the right to handle its affairs in the lawful manner it sees fit. But the commissioner's implication is surely that Arizona, by turning down the proposal, is a racist state. In fact, a black state senator from Arizona, Carolyn Walker, said that "it's sad to say that this state is racist, and I keep saying we are not, but when you turn down a holiday that deals with honoring civil and human rights, the numbers show that we are."
 When the University of California at Berkeley agreed to play in the Copper Bowl in Tucson on Dec. 31, a spokesman for the N.A.A.C.P. said he couldn't understand why an institution with such a history of humanitarian concerns would play in Arizona after that vote. But there will be a halftime show celebrating King.
 And the University of Louisville's board of governors voted to play in the Fiesta Bowl in Phoenix on New Year's Day, with plans to earmark about $200,000 of its earnings from the game to minority-group student concerns at the university.
 The N.F.L. should have gone along the general route taken by those schools.
 The N.F.L. is using one issue as a litmus test for racism, and it is a faulty test, at best. The vote may have been an economic one (against another paid state holiday), or a reaction to what some viewed as "bullying" tactics by the N.F.L., or by state politicians and business people who had assured the league that the vote would be favorable.
 Regardless of how great a leader King was (and he was one of this nation's finest and most effective leaders), it remains subjective whether to honor him or anyone else who was significant. After all, not even Lincoln is honored with a day in every state. And should the N.F.L. refuse to award Charlotte, N.C., an expansion football team because Jesse Helms was again re-elected to the United States Senate, this time over a black man? Or should they never have another Super Bowl in New Orleans because David Duke nearly won a Senate seat? And while we're at it, why not remove the Cardinals from Phoenix altogether?
Arizona, meanwhile, adheres to all of the nondiscrimination laws of the nation, in jobs, education, housing and justice. Many of the nation's country clubs, however, have a clear history of discrimination. Private country clubs also are often sites for the transaction of important business affairs, and a result may be that if minority members or women aren't allowed in, then they can be at a competititve disadvantage, and their employers, or would-be employers, know it.
 Private organizations, including those in sports, ought, like anyone else, to use legal leverage when possible in matters benefiting humanity, but the Arizona football issue paints a broad brushstroke that is unreasonable.
 By extension, one contemplates that because George Bush vetoed the recent Civil Rights Bill, the N.F.L. will next decide to play the Super Bowl in Canada.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (93%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (50%); UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (90%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (82%); PROFESSIONAL GOLFERS' ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARIZONA

SUBJECT: GOLF; BLACKS (IN US); DISCRIMINATION; RACIAL RELATIONS; FOOTBALL GOLF (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (70%); BOYCOTTS (69%); 

PERSON: KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68); BERKOW, IRA MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



661 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Gardens of Plant Tissue in Labs Seen as Factories for Vital Drugs

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
TAXOL, one of the most promising anti-cancer drugs to be tested in years, comes from the bark of the Pacific yew, a slow-growing evergreen found in a few Northwestern states and Canada.
But about 36,000 60-year-old trees would have to be destroyed each year just to treat patients with ovarian cancer, the drug's most exciting role to date. Should the drug's early promise against cancers of the breast, lung and colon hold up, millions of trees would fall each year and the world's natural supply of taxol would soon be gone. 
 Scientists have tried to synthesize the chemical in the laboratory. But 10 years of effort have been futile; taxol's highly complex chemical structure is simply too hard to duplicate.
So the researchers have turned to tissue culture, reproducing in the laboratory bark cells that can produce large amounts of taxol. By manipulating plant cells and growing mediums, researchers can create vast laboratory gardens of plant parts that produce important chemicals quickly, cheaply and reliably in a confined space.
 
New Use for Technique
 Chemical "elicitors" can be added to the growth medium to prompt the cultured tissues to produce more than the usual amounts of certain target compounds. Such compounds are called secondary metabolites because they are normally produced by the plant in response to a particular stress or stimulus, such as an attack by a predatory insect or fungal disease or a sudden temperature change.
For years, scientists have used tissue culture techniques to improve plant lines. Researchers have altered elm and chestnut trees in hopes of creating blight-resistant strains and put the techniques to work at Kew Gardens in England after a storm destroyed many plants.
But only recently have they used tissue culture to turn plant cells into factories for needed compounds. This research was the subject of a recent conference at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
In the case of taxol, the goal is to create a "forest" of bark from the Pacific yew without having to destroy a single tree. The National Cancer Institute, which discovered taxol while screening 35,000 plants in hopes of finding cancer treatments, is underwriting studies to solve the taxol supply problem.
At least two laboratories have already established taxol-producing tissue cultures. One, Phyton Catalytic Inc. of Ithaca, N.Y., said its tissue culture of yew bark was yielding seven times more taxol than the plant naturally produced in its bark. The other, a United States Department of Agriculture laboratory in New Orleans, is seeking a patent for another less efficient taxol process.
If current production results hold up in large-scale tests, taxol is likely to become the nation's first secondary metabolite from a plant to be produced commercially in tissue culture.
But Dr. Dayuan Wang of DNA Pharmaceuticals in Stamford, Conn., said American scientists were years behind the Chinese in exploring the value of plant tissue cultures to produce medically useful chemicals. The Chinese have long derived most of their medicines from plants. But since plant resources are limited or difficult to obtain and enormous quantities of low-cost drugs are needed, Chinese scientists were quick to recognize the potential economy and efficiency of tissue culture production.
Dr. Wang, whose company has two laboratories in China, said the Chinese were studying the growth of plant parts in tissue culture to produce drugs that fight cancer, lower blood pressure, relieve pain, combat malaria, suppress coughs, stimulate the immune system and counter the damaging effects of radiation.
For example, a drug to lower blood pressure that is extracted from the bark of a tree, Eucommia ulnoides, is not only widely used in China but is also exported to other Asian countries.
"People were cutting down so many trees to extract the chemical that the Chinese would have run short of trees in just 10 or 15 years," Dr. Wang said. "So a decade ago, scientists in Beijing turned to tissue culture of the tree's bark to solve the supply problem."
He said the Chinese had also shown that a plant tissue culture could produce high yields of L-dopa, the drug that revolutionized the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
At the symposium in Brooklyn, co-sponsored by the Northeast chapter of the Tissue Culture Association, Dr. Robert Borris of Merck Sharp & Dohme 's division of natural products noted that "Mother Nature is an excellent chemist, and traditionally, natural products have been a very rich source of drugs." Among the better known medicines derived from plants are the heart drug digitalis, the anti-malarial quinine, the gout remedy colchicine and two of the most important cancer chemotherapeutic agents, vincristine and vinblastine.
 
Advantages of Tissue Culture
 In trying to capitalize on nature's bag of chemical tricks, tissue culture can circumvent many natural limitations, said Dr. John Staba, a pioneer in the field from the University of Minnesota.
In addition to producing higher yields, tissue cultures are a more reliable source of the desired chemicals. Unlike plants in nature, cultured cells do not depend on season or climate and are not subject to obliteration or inaccessibility resulting from disease or political unrest. Medicinally valuable plants are often difficult to collect from the wild or import because they may be rare or endangered species or they may carry a disease that could damage crops or, as happened to one promising plant, their native habitat is replaced by a parking lot.
The problems of relying on nature are all too obvious with regard to getting enough of the anti-cancer drug vincristine. This potent plant medicine, which has helped to save the lives of countless patients with Hodgkin's disease, is extracted in small amounts from the periwinkle plant. To maintain a supply of vincristine, Eli Lilly & Company supports vast plantations of periwinkle in Madagascar. The drug is expensive because it costs thousands of dollars to produce and isolate just one pound of vincristine from plants grown in the usual fashion.
And, Dr. Borris pointed out, the supply of drug could be seriously disrupted by a fire or revolution or a disease that wipes out the plants, jeopardizing the survival of hundreds of thousands of cancer patients.
If, instead, vincristine was harvested from high-yielding tissue cultures, it would take a lot less space and probably far fewer dollars to procure it and the supply would be infinitely more reliable.
 
Some Chemical Surprises
 Plant tissue cultures could also be a source of medically useful chemical surprises and services, Dr. Borris said. For example, once cells are growing in tissue culture, they can be subjected to a variety of treatments to see what other useful chemicals they could produce. Or plant tissue cultures might be used for "biotransformations," making use of the plant's natural enzyme systems to modify compounds in ways that are technically too difficult to be done by a chemist.
Dr. Borris said tissue cultures could also be used to perform "directed biosynthesis," nutritionally pushing the cultured cells to produce novel compounds by feeding them certain nutrients as building blocks.
Dr. Staba believes science can gain much valuable information from plant tissue cultures. "We can study tissue cultures to find out what compounds plants make, where they are stored and what purpose they serve and then use that information to make more intelligent use of plant chemicals," he said. "This could be a big boon for people. We may be able to find new insecticides and antibiotics, methods of controlling flowering, etc., just from a piece of tissue."
Dr. Ken Torres, director of the plant tissue culture laboratory at the Sigma Chemical Corporation, agreed, saying, "There are tremendous numbers of plant compounds to be found and studied, and the potential for finding new useful compounds is uncountable."
Still, he added, there are tremendous technological obstacles to surmount before American drug and chemical companies begin to take advantage of the opportunities inherent in plant tissue culture.
Dr. Stephen Tim, vice president for science and publications at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, noted that among the half-million species of plants, there was a "mind-boggling array of chemical compounds that can influence tissues and cells."
"Yet," he said, "little or nothing is known about 99 percent of the plant species in botanically rich areas like the Amazon jungle that, along with indigenous folk medicine, is rapidly being swallowed up by 20th century development."
Dr. Tim urged American medicine to explore and take advantage of this vast resource of medicinally useful plants before it is too late.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Forest in a Test Tube: Instead of extracting a promising cancer drug, taxol, from the bark of rare Pacific yew trees, researchers are manipulating bark cells to produce the drug in laboratory cultures. First, small pieces of the bark are removed and placed in a nutrient-rich gel where they multiply and produce callus, a disorganized mass of tissue cells.;
Production speeds up Cells from the original culture are used to produce more cultures and more callus. Chemical "elicitors" can be added to stimulate the cells to produce more than the usual amount of the drug.; Extracting the drug After several more weeks, the callus is harvested and dried. The drug is chemically extracted and concentrated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (53%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HEART; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; RESEARCH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) CANCER DRUGS (92%); CANCER (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BIOCHEMISTRY (89%); OVARIAN CANCER (79%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); BREAST CANCER (73%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (67%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



662 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Dancing Fast Enough in Moscow?

 BODY:
Mikhail Gorbachev has pulled off another feat of political judo. Beset by challenges from left and right, he has responded with a sweeping government reorganization that would strengthen his own authority while offering a larger role to the restless Soviet republics.
It's far from certain whether Mr. Gorbachev, for all his tactical brilliance, can move swiftly enough to rescue the Soviet Union from turmoil and the Soviet economy from disintegration. And his praiseworthy plan has yet to win over his popular rival, Boris Yeltsin, who has been pushing Mr. Gorbachev to accelerate economic reform. 
 Yet the West is right to wish for his success and help wherever it can to alleviate distress. President Bush's offer yesterday of emergency food supplies and other humanitarian aid, in concert with America's allies, was thus timely and welcome. So were his reasons: "That's the right and humane thing to do as a country moves toward us and relations are greatly improved."
Mr. Gorbachev won approval for two changes long urged on him by reformers like Mr. Yeltsin. He empowered a Federation Council, composed of representatives from the 15 Soviet republics, to coordinate nationwide efforts at desperately needed economic reform. He set up a national security council, a presidential cabinet, to reorganize the recalcitrant bureaucracy and subordinate it to him. That left Prime Minister Ryzhkov without a job. Reformers had demanded he be sacked for temporizing on the economy and for his subservience to conservative apparatchiks.
Ominously, however, Mr. Gorbachev also moved to consolidate control over Soviet law enforcement agencies, including the armed forces, Interior Ministry troops, the K.G.B. and the police. If all else fails, he may be preparing to crack down in order to move essential goods to market.
The new Federation Council is a much-needed mechanism to help Moscow and the rebellious republics resolve differences over the pace and direction of change. By ceding responsibility as well as power to republic leaders like Russia's Mr. Yeltsin, Mr. Gorbachev gives them an incentive to reach a consensus.
Mr. Yeltsin remains dissatisfied because Mr. Gorbachev's plan does not go far enough to empower the Russian Republic to proceed rapidly to a market economy. He's also worried that while Central Asian opponents of reform will be represented on the Council, reform-minded leaders in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, unwilling to settle for less than independence, won't join.
Yet the republics can't go it alone. They need goods that only others can supply. An all-Union market is meant to do just that, allowing each republic to specialize in producing what it makes best and trade for what it lacks. The sooner that market begins to function, the sooner separatism will become a spent force.
Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin may yet find a way to compromise on the sovereignty issue, especially who controls resources and factories in Russia. Such an agreement is not beyond the wit of either man; without it the council may deadlock while the economy spins out of control.
Public patience is rapidly wearing thin. Some citizens, eager for a strongman, may demand that Mr. Gorbachev use his police powers to move goods to the shelves. Others may try to take matters into the streets. Either way, Mr. Gorbachev may find himself compelled to revert to the very authoritarian rule he has sought to leave behind.
That's where the West can help. Emergency aid could ease his predicament by assuring that there's food on Soviet tables and no chaos in Soviet streets this winter. Mr. Gorbachev is dancing as fast as he can; he will need partners to keep going.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MARTIAL ARTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); TRENDS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (63%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



663 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Governor Cuomo's Rush to Cut

 BODY:
They said 'No taxes.' -- Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York, describing voters' message on Nov. 6.
That they did, and Mr. Cuomo obviously heard them. Confronted with growing budget deficits, he has now proposed deep cuts in jobs and services and rejected his old standbys -- taxes, gimmicks and borrowing. With the state's current budget deficit at $1 billion and growing, the Governor's decision to stop finessing is to his credit. 
 But he has so far failed to draw on his talents as a persuasive leader to frame the right choices and force the public to confront the consequences.
What, in fact, will become of what Mr. Cuomo calls "the Family of New York" if the state mimics the Federal Government and abdicates its responsibility to care for its citizens? What will become of other humane Cuomo initiatives?
 New York has long chosen to provide a high level of public services, but it has done so inefficiently, with widespread waste, a bloated bureaucracy and sloppy accounting. Critics have repeatedly called on Mr. Cuomo to put the state's fiscal house in order; until recently he looked the other way. Now, his hand forced by the weakening economy, he is making difficult, often painful choices. But they are not the only choices.
There is no doubt that Mr. Cuomo has to cut the budget, and cut it deeply. With a deficit of $3 billion or more looming in the next fiscal year, the state cannot tax away its problem without taxing away its competitiveness. But a blanket refusal even to weigh tax increases makes sense only in terms of the 1992 Presidential campaign.
Over the years, as he fought budget cuts and supported higher taxes to cushion the poor, Mr. Cuomo effectively articulated the vision of a humane, caring government. No doubt he still harbors that vision, and champions the philosophy behind it.
Yet when he announced his new budget-cutting plan, it was as if the old Cuomo had given way. Instead of "We have obligations to one another, a belief in the importance of something larger than ourselves" (January 1989), the November 1990 emphasis is on fiscal prudence: "I will reject any proposed tax increases."
A fiscal problem as severe as New York's needs balanced solutions, and a public intolerant of taxes needs educating. What level of services do the people want? The Governor's plan will cut Medicaid payments to hospitals and nursing homes, eliminate funding to new teen-age pregnancy programs, reduce school aid and general revenue sharing and lead to job layoffs. The next fiscal year will bring even more cuts.
A concerned electorate needs choices. There is nobody better equipped to frame and discuss them than the articulate Mr. Cuomo. At least his no-taxes, no-borrowing stance applies to this fiscal year, which ends in March. That means there is still time and room for leadership for the coming fiscal year, if the Governor still favors explanation over resignation, and leadership over capitulation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR) BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); MEDICAID (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); NURSING HOMES (60%); LAYOFFS (57%); HOSPITALS (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



664 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
Five Missing Words

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal; Russell Baker is on vacation.

 BODY:
Five words are missing. Cup your ear, but in all the talk about American and United Nations goals in the Iraqi crisis you will not hear certain words uttered about the future of the Arab Middle East: political freedom, democracy, human rights.
But if you listen hard enough, you will hear the snickers of the "pragmatists" -- the Arabists and other diplomats in the Western capitals. They will tell you that such things are not part of Arab history, which is true, and that they never can be, which is false. 
 It is also stupid, shortsighted, plus ignorant. Ever since World War II, freedom and democracy have shown themselves more potent than despotism, and human rights has been proven one of the most powerful political weapons the world has known.
How ironic, how sad -- at the very time when the West fears to utter the hope of freedom and human rights for the Middle East, a convocation that is testimony to their power takes place in Paris. The collapse of Communism brought the end of the cold war confrontation. And the collapse of Communism was brought decades nearer by democratic activists who risked their lives pushing through the tiny loophole of the Helsinki treaty on human rights. The Kremlin opened the loophole contemptuously in exchange for recognition of Communist-imposed borders -- surely one of the greatest mistakes any despotism ever made.
A strange admiration for third-world tough guys is one reason the West is not inclined to bother about democracy in the Middle East. ("He keeps his boots polished; my brother and I like him," Robert Kennedy once said of a South Korean military dictator.)
Fear of the unknown is another. If freedom of political choice ever does come to the Middle East, the whole structure of monarchies, despotism and the rule of the mosque will crack open. But so will the cozy arrangements between the local rulers and Western oil companies and the profitable military deals between the West and the kings and sheiks.
And of course, the United States knows that most of its Arab allies are state-of-the-art tyrannies. In Saudi Arabia women are chattel, religious or political dissent is punishable by imprisonment or death. It takes a real expert to tell our ally Hafez al-Assad of Syria apart from our enemy Saddam Hussein.
So the U.S. maintains an unworthy silence -- saying not a word when Syria slaughters Lebanese or when the Saudis round up women for the crime of driving. Washington even tells American soldiers not to talk about women's rights or show the cross or the star of David. The Democratic House majority leader, Representative Richard Gephardt, actually says that the Saudis made a great "concession" by allowing American troops into the country to save the royal Saudi neck.
It will take years before political freedom has a chance in the Arab Middle East. Arab rulers stamp out any opposition they discover.
No illusions: the tiny pro-democracy groups that manage to survive cling to anti-Israel emotions and propaganda. They say they see the Israeli struggle against Palestinian nationalism as the major human rights issue.
Yet they exist, secretly at home, furtively abroad, and attention should be paid. An Iraqi in exile writes a book about his country whose title tells the whole story: "The Republic of Fear." In Geneva, the Arab Organization for Human Rights reports some of the truth about political murder, torture and imprisonment in the Arab countries.
The U.S. cannot and should not envelop them. But it is a scandal that we do not recognize their existence and help them if they wish. Once again, as in Iran, we are surrendering opposition to the rulers to the fundamentalists and we will pay for that.
Interesting, how rarely democracies war against each other, and how often they have to face dictatorships in combat. No great mystery: despots use war to satisfy their power-lust, or to distract their own people from the misery of their political and economic imprisonment.
The root of the conflict between Iraq and the U.S. is not in Kuwait. It is in Baghdad and in Damascus and Tripoli and all other cities of the Middle East, where government aggression against its own nation breeds aggression against a foreign nation. In the end, the only solution for war between Arab and Arab, Arab and Jew, Arab and Westerner is what the Middle East needs most, the five missing words.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); SYRIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); WORLD WAR II (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ARMED FORCES (68%); RELIGION (62%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



665 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Income-Tax Advocate to Be Weicker's Fiscal Chief

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Governor-elect Lowell P. Weicker Jr., moving quickly to deal with Connecticut's largest fiscal crisis in decades, today named State Representative William J. Cibes of New London, a Democrat who favors a state income tax, as his chief budget adviser.
The appointment of Mr. Cibes, who unsuccessfully sought his party's gubernatorial nomination earlier this year, was praised by Democrats, including Gov. William A. O'Neill. 
 But it instantly raised fears among Republicans that Mr. Weicker, who was elected as an independent, might be heading toward a broad-based income tax to help erase a projected $2.1 billion revenue shortfall for the 1991-92 fiscal year, which begins July 1.
The shortfall, which includes $562 million for this fiscal year, equals almost a third of the state's current $7.1 billion budget.
 
Income Tax Not Ruled Out
 At a news conference in the State Capitol, Mr. Weicker, a liberal and a former Republican who will take office Jan. 9, reiterated his aversion to an income tax, particularly in a recession. But, as he did throughout his gubernatorial campaign, he refused to rule one out.
He said his choice of Mr. Cibes, who is co-chairman of the General Assembly's Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee, was based on the Democrat's expertise in fiscal affairs and the respect he commands in both major political parties."I promised the state of Connecticut I would seek out the best," Mr. Weicker said. "When it comes to the matter of a state budget, there was really only one first choice."
The House minority leader, Edward C. Krawiecki Jr., a Republican from Bristol, also praised Mr. Cibes's mastery of the budget process. "He is one of the brightest people walking around these halls," he said.
Mr. Krawiecki added, though, that he was troubled by Mr. Cibes's advocacy of a broad-based income tax, an issue that has long split liberal and conservative lawmakers in the state. Connecticut is one of 10 states that does not have such a tax. It does, however, tax income on dividends, interest and capital gains on a graduated basis, with the top rate, 14 percent, the highest in the nation.
Mr. Cibes and other income-tax proponents have contended that the state's budget problems are a result of an inconsistent and inadequate revenue source: an 8 percent sales tax.
During his gubernatorial campaign, Mr. Cibes recommended a broad income tax starting at 4 percent of the adjusted gross over $25,000 and peaking at 8 percent for incomes over $100,000. He also urged that the sales tax be cut to 5 percent and the corporate tax, the highest in the nation at an effective rate of 13.8 percent, be cut to 10 percent.
The plan would generate $600 million in revenue, or $2.5 billion without the cuts in other taxes.
 
Tax 'a Step Closer'
 "It is one step closer than it was yesterday -- but it's a long journey," the State Republican Party chairman, State Representative Richard Foley Jr., said about an income tax.
Mr. Cibes, whose appointment as secretary of the Office of Policy and Management is expected to be confirmed by the General Assembly, said he would look for spending cuts before recommending ways to increase revenue in the current budget and the 1991-92 budget.
He refused to say whether an income tax was the sole solution to the state's budget problems, a position on which he anchored his gubernatorial campaign. He was resoundingly defeated by Representative Bruce A. Morrison of Hamden in the Democratic primary in September.
"My first duty as secretary of the Office of Policy and Management will be to scrutinize every expenditure made by the state to see if it can be reduced or eliminated," Mr. Cibes said.
 
Appointment No Surprise
 The appointment of Mr. Cibes, who is 47 years old, was not unexpected. Since his victory on Nov. 6, Mr. Weicker has hinted that Mr. Cibes was one of his top choices for the job, now held by Anthony V. Milano. The post is regarded as the most prominent on fiscal policy in the state.
Mr. Cibes's position on the income tax aside, he is a widely respected and well-liked legislator who holds a doctorate in political science from Princeton and has taught political science at Connecticut College in New London since 1969. He has served in the General Assembly since 1978.
"I am a Democrat -- I will always be a Democrat," he said. "But Connecticut faces serious difficulties. It is time to lay aside strong partisan feelings to attempt to achieve the goals that we all share as members of Connecticut's community."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William J. Cibes after being named yesterday as budget adviser to Governor-elect Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut, right. (Associated Press) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: FINANCES; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); SALES TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); TAX LAW (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICS (67%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR; CIBES, WILLIAM J JR (REPR)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



666 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Sunset Publishing Goes To Canada for a Leader

 BODY:
A West Coast publishing company has turned to Canada for leadership.
The new president of the Sunset Publishing Corporation will be Ronald A. Kovas, who was president and chief executive of Southam Business Information and Communications Group Inc. of Toronto. Mr. Kovas, 48, replaces John F. Henning Jr., who becomes vice chairman after eight years as president.
The Sunset Publishing Corporation, based in the San Francisco suburb of Menlo Park, publishes Sunset magazine, a 92-year-old chronicle of life in the West with a monthly circulation of 1.4 million in 13 Western states. It also has more than 200 book titles in print through its Sunset Books publishing division.
Since June 1 the company has been owned by Time Publishing Ventures Inc., a unit of Time Inc. Magazine Company.
Mr. Kovacs, who assumed his new position yesterday, has spent most of the last decade in Canada -- with Southam since June 1988 and as president of the J. Walter Thompson Company advertising agency in Toronto for six years. But he has worked and gone to school in California, and that was important, Time officials said.
"In addition to possessing the vision, strategic planning expertise and leadership skills needed to insure Sunset's continued growth and success, Ron is very familiar with the West," said Christopher Meigher, president and chief executive of Time Publishing Ventures Inc.
Mr. Kovas received degrees in history and economics from Stanford University and an M.B.A. from the Kellogg School of Advanced Management at Northwestern University. He then spent 22 years with J. Walter Thompson's corporate parent, the JWT Group,Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: SUNSET PUBLISHING CORP (95%); JWT (91%); TIME INC (83%); JWT GROUP INC (66%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUNSET PUBLISHING CORP

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES PUBLISHING (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (88%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); 

PERSON: KOVAS, RONALD A; HENNING, JOHN F JR

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



667 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: George Bush, Meet Woodrow Wilson

BYLINE: By John B. Judis; John B. Judis is author of the forthcoming book "Grand Illusion: Critics and Champions of the American Century."

DATELINE: KENSINGTON, Md.

 BODY:
In May 1915, a year after World War I began, Woodrow Wilson called for establishment of a League of Nations, which, through collective means, would prevent future world wars from breaking out. His proposal -- partly embodied in the feeble post-World War I League and then after World War II in the U.N. -- never achieved the kind of collective security he hoped for.
In the wake of Iraq's conquest of Kuwait, President Bush seems to have revived Mr. Wilson's proposal. In his address to Congress on Sept. 11, Mr. Bush called for the creation of a "new world order . . . in which nations recognize the shared responsibility for freedom and justice." 
 Is this quest for collective security and a new world order a recurring delusion that well-meaning statesmen like Presidents Wilson and Bush use to rationalize their more narrowly conceived actions? Or is it a practical goal that is worth pursuing even if it has eluded us?
As America's place in the world has changed in the last 75 years, the argument for collective security has also changed. In 1915, the U.S. was weaker militarily than Britain and Germany but had become the world's strongest country economically.
Mr. Wilson saw the League of Nations as a means of curbing great-power imperialism, which had caused World War I, and of laying the groundwork for a disarmed world order in which economic strength -- the U.S.'s strong suit -- would prevail over military strength.
Today, the U.S. remains the strongest military power but lags behind Europe and Japan in key industries. With a decaying infrastructure and educational system and soaring public and private debt, the U.S. could fall behind even further.
It was evident in recent weeks as the Administration tried simultaneously to defend the Persian Gulf and reduce the budget deficit that the U.S. no longer has the funds and resources to act unilaterally in the world. Seventy-five years ago, it sought collective security to insure its economic superiority; today, it has to seek collective security for the sake of economic solvency.
But is collective security possible? President Wilson's proposal foundered on the Russian Revolution, which split the West; on the refusal of Britain, France, Italy and Japan to abandon imperial ambitions, and on the opposition in the U.S. of Republican imperialists and progressives.
The imperialists, led by Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, insisted that the U.S., combining military and economic superiority, had to remain the master of its own fate.
The progressives, led by Senator William Borah, attacked the League as an instrument for maintaining the British-dominated division of the world.
Today, two major obstacles to Mr. Wilson's dream of collective security have been removed: the European and Japanese empires have been dissolved and the cold war has ended. What remains are domestic obstacles, a lack of urgency among the major powers (except, ironically, the Soviet Union) and an absence of inspired international leadership to forge new arrangements.
Mr. Bush's proposal for a new world order has encountered opposition from descendants of Senators Lodge and Borah. Republican conservatives are divided over tactics in the gulf. But they agree that pursuing new collective security arrangements is -- as John O'Sullivan, editor of the National Review put it -- "bunkum." They want the U.S. to remain militarily supreme and unbounded by commitments to a revived U.N. or other supranational body.
Left-wing opponents of Mr. Bush's intervention in the gulf dismiss the proposal for a new world order -- "prattle," editor Erwin Knoll's Progressive called it -- as a rationalization for imperial ambitions there. Where Senator Borah and the progressives questioned Britain's motives in supporting collective security, today's left questions our Government's motives.
The right ignores not only our country's economic plight but also the diplomatic pitfalls of unilateral action; the left, still reeling from Vietnam, sees our foreign policy through the prism of that era's lies and deceptions.
The Bush Administration has done little to meet these challenges to its policies. After proclaiming a new world order to be their "fifth objective" in the gulf, Mr. Bush and Secretary of State James Baker have been decidedly vague in spelling out what that order entails.
Does it mean a strengthened U.N.? And new regional security arrangements in the gulf and elsewhere? Will the U.S. be willing to put its own military under international leadership? In the gulf, Mr. Bush has rejected a U.N. command outright.
Sometimes, when Administration officials describe their goals, they say the U.S. must reduce its military burden and commitment. Other times, they appear determined to seek new arrangements in order to preserve U.S. military supremacy and to justify new expenditures.
In September, Pentagon officials hinted that even after Iraq was driven from Kuwait, they anticipated keeping 10,000 U.S. troops in the gulf and establishing new bases throughout the region. Mr. Baker has suggested that the U.S. could set up a NATO-like structure in the Persian Gulf.
By sending 230,000 more troops to the gulf, with the result that U.S. forces will outnumber Arab and European forces 4 to 1, Mr. Bush threatens to undermine the concept of a multilateral force and has set the stage for what may end up as a unilateral U.S. offensive. Not only Kuwait but also plans for a new world order may perish in the process.
As our involvement in the Persian Gulf deepens and becomes more perilous, it becomes important for Mr. Bush to explain fully why we are there and what larger objectives we hope to fulfill. Taking a first step toward a new world order could be a legitimate goal, but Americans have to understand better what this could involve. Otherwise, Mr. Bush's proposal, like Mr. Wilson's, may become another faded dream.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (74%); GERMANY (70%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY STRATEGY AND TACTICS; MILITARY ACTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US WORLD WAR I (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); BUDGETS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WILSON, WOODROW (1856-1924); JUDIS, JOHN B GEORGE W BUSH (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



668 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Soviet Army Coup? Not Likely

BYLINE: By Richard Pipes; Richard Pipes, professor of history at Harvard, is author of "The Russian Revolution."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Is the Soviet Army, the spoiled darling of the Communist regime, ready to rise up and seize power? Many Russians think so, and Mikhail Gorbachev even took the remarkable step last week of denying rumors that it would.
Unquestionably, morale is at an all-time low. Generals are openly grumbling about cuts in the defense budget, the surrender of Eastern Europe and, most of all, the reforms in economic and political life carried out in the name of perestroika. 
 When the Red Army was created in 1918, Lenin, worried about the counter-revolutionary potential of a professional officer corps, made certain that it was penetrated from top to bottom by the Communist Party. As it evolved, party control was exercised by two institutions.
The Main Political Administration was placed in charge of political indoctrination to insure that the military faithfully followed party directives. Party cells were introduced into all units of regimental size and higher. Three-quarters of the officers are party members and subject to party discipline; among the generals, membership approaches 100 percent.
The Red Army, however, is not monolithic. While the generals are overwhelmingly conservative, the officers of middle and lower rank sympathize with the democratic parties. The split was evident in voting records in the Congress of Peoples Deputies of the Russian Republic, where 82 percent of the generals have sided with the conservatives and only 18 percent with the democratic bloc. Among junior officers, the proportion was nearly reversed (22 percent to 73 percent). Furthermore, there are divisions between officers of Russian nationality and those from the borderland republics, especially the Ukraine.
Mikhail Gorbachev's effort to deprive the party of a monopoly over politics has met with furious resistance from the upper echelons of the officer corps. To them, the party's monopoly safeguards the military against the divisive political activities that undermined discipline and led to the army's demise in 1917.
A number of prominent officers have put the Government on notice that they will not tolerate political pluralism in their ranks. They have reconciled themselves to the emasculation of the Main Political Administration, which has been recently deprived of its traditional role as the official agency of Marxist-Leninist indoctrination. But they have managed to beat off attempts to introduce political pluralism into the armed forces.
In the future, as in the past, the only organized political activity among the military will be conducted by party cells. Since junior officers' promotions depend on Communist colonels and generals, it is unlikely that they will dare to press for greater democracy. In other words, an anomalous and potentially dangerous situation has emerged with the party disestablished in society at large but retaining a monopoly on political activity in the military establishment.
Soviet generals also resist the transition to a market economy, since they run not only the armed forces but also what it has become fashionable in the Soviet Union to call the "military-industrial complex." The projected conversion of numerous defense industries to civilian production imperils their jobs. Thus, the military sector continues to enjoy the highest priority on industrial resources.
The generals are dismayed by the decline in the prestige of the military. They speak bitterly of officers being abused and even physically assaulted. They deplore the growing trend to draft dodging (this fall, 400,000 men have failed to report for induction) and the passage of laws by several republics restricting active service by their inhabitants to the republics in which they reside. They are appalled by talk of an all-volunteer army and alternate service. They blame glasnost for what they perceive as the spread of "Russophobia" and for declining national morale.
To counter trends that diminish their power, prestige and influence, the generals are loudly warning that the country faces the threat of external aggression. Marshal Sergei Akhromeyev, Mr. Gorbachev's military adviser, talks of a U.S. military menace and the dangers posed by the American buildup in the Persian Gulf. Gen. Albert Makashov, who commands the Ural military district, claims World War III is in progress and that the U.S. is winning.
Such open defiance of civilian authorities is without precedent not only in Soviet but in Russian history; indeed, it would not be tolerated in any Western democracy. In the past several months, Mr. Gorbachev's civilian opponents have quietly retired into the background, letting the generals carry the brunt of the struggle against his reforms.
This struggle seems to be nearing a climax. When Mr. Gorbachev met with more than 1,000 military deputies on Nov. 13, their booing and heckling forced him to cut short his address. The next day, Marshal Akhromeyev warned that the armed forces would not stand by and watch the Soviet Union disintegrate.
This new practice of openly challenging civilian authority has alarmed many people and fed the rumors of coups. In mid-September, word spread in Moscow that several army divisions and a regiment of paratroopers had been deployed around the city to overthrow the Government under the pretext of protecting it from a democratic insurrection. The army command denied these rumors, claiming one day that it had assembled the troops to rehearse for a parade and the next that they were to help harvest the potato crop (in full combat gear, no less). But the Supreme Soviet took the reports seriously enough to appoint two committees to look into them.
Could a military coup succeed? The yearning for law and order, for a strong hand, is prevalent in the population, and the conservatives could exploit it to introduce a Pinochet-style military dictatorship. But the difficulties are formidable.
The disparity in political attitudes between the generals and their subordinates suggests that, should they decide to strike, the generals could run into open defiance from field officers. Army and K.G.B. field commanders have stated publicly that they would disobey orders to fire on civilians. There is also no assurance that non-Russian officers, especially the Ukrainians, would do as told.
Finally, it is questionable whether the army, even in alliance with conservative party elements, could impose its will and solve the problems of a country as large and unstable as the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, the danger exists and it is troublesome not only for Soviet citizens but also for the U.S., whose defense and foreign policies assume a benign and cooperative Soviet Union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); RUSSIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC (USSR); UKRAINIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MILITARY PERSONNEL; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (91%); COUPS (91%); POLITICS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); BUDGETS (72%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1990



669 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Let Them Eat Bread

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
ITEM: In yet another bid to prevent the Soviet Union from disintegrating in its winter of discontent, Mikhail Gorbachev reorganizes his Government and hints that full-blown rationing will be needed to feed the nation.
Item: World trade negotiations are on the verge of collapse because European leaders cannot bring themselves to say no to their subsidy-addicted, overproducing farmers. 
 For government crisis managers from Tokyo to Washington, this adds up to trouble as usual, two more reasons to stay late at the office drafting memos. But to Jagdish Bhagwati and Padma Desai, Columbia University's distinguished husband-wife economics team, it is an opportunity to appeal to the idealist lurking in the heart of every skeptic: We have too much food, and they have too little. Isn't there room for a deal?
The Bhagwati-Desai proposal, presented in abbreviated form on The New York Times's Op-Ed page last week, is simplicity itself. With Soviet production heading south and its agricultural distribution system in chaos, the country is no longer even close to self-sufficient in bread and sausage. Widespread hunger, if not serious malnutrition, is likely in coming months unless the Government uses its dwindling foreign reserves for emergency imports. But more spent on food means less to spend for a dozen other consumer priorities, further restricting Moscow's room to maneuver in its efforts to avoid becoming the first nuclear-armed superpower to self-destruct.
Meanwhile, in Geneva, talks aimed at smoothing critical sources of trade friction among the world's industrialized democracies have reached thebrinkmanship stage. America, along with other agricultural producers, is threatening to walk unless the European Community sets a timetable for eliminating the sorcerer's apprentice subsidies that have transformed Europe's hopelessly inefficient farm sector into an unstoppable export machine.
Why not turn incipient tragedy into triumph, say Mr. Bhagwati and Ms. Desai, redirecting the fruits of Europe's offending farm subsidies from competitive world markets to Soviet dinner tables. The food need not be labeled a handout: Europe could lend the Soviets the money, with repayment scheduled for 1995 and beyond -- when the economy might be out of the intensive care ward.
There is a chance, of course, that whoever rules the 15 Soviet republics in five years will be unwilling or unable to pay back Mikhail Gorbachev's debts. Were the credits tied, however, to a Soviet commitment to eliminate consumer subsidies on nonessentials, Ms. Desai argues, the prospects for keeping the Soviet Union creditworthy would begreatly improved. Those subsidies now bloat the Government's budget deficit, threatening to bury tentative market changes in a tide of inflation.
In any case, the economists contend, Europe should take the chance. The risk of never seeing the marks and francs again seems a reasonable price to pay to placate domestic farmers and enjoy the benefits of open world trade.
It is easy to count the reasons that the deal will not be made -- and, perhaps, should not be made. For one thing, the latest Kremlin shuffle only reaffirms fears that no one retains the political and moral authority to see perestroika through to the end. Helping Mikhail Gorbachev survive the collapse of the Communist system that propelled him to power could alienate leaders of the republics -- notably Boris Yeltsin -- with greater political staying power. If the skeptics are right, moreover, there would be no practical way to attach strings to Western goodies: radical economic change is so painful that any short-term relief of the pressure for change will inevitably lead to prevarication.
Nor would it necessarily be a blessing to let Europe's farmers and their friends in high political places off the hook. European industry knows it has much to gain from a successful conclusion to the Uruguay Round of international trade talks, and the opportunity to build a coalition to serve as a counterweight to European farmers may not recur for years. Moreover, if a stake does not soon penetrate the heart of the Western European farm lobby, Eastern Europe's hopes for developing an efficient, export-oriented farm sector will be dashed by their neighbors' protectionism.
Yet dreams of helping frightened, impoverished people, newly freed from the yoke of Stalinism and eager to join the community of civilized nations, do not die easily. Could the rules of realpolitik be suspended just long enough to feed Soviet pensioners and keep the trade talks on track? The only way to know, perhaps, would be to take a chance.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FOOD; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (76%); BUDGETS (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BHAGWATI, JAGDISH N; DESAI, PADMA MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



670 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: A School in Minnesota Doesn't Have a Principal

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HILL CITY, Minn.

 BODY:
What was once the principal's office has a conference table in it now. The name plate on the door is covered with a slash of masking tape with the word "SHARE" scrawled across it.
In this remote northern Minnesota town, where the business district is half a dozen stores and the roads turn to dirt a block off the main street, the local school is conducting an unusual experiment. 
 For the third year, the Hill City School, with 28 teachers and 330 students in kindergarten through 12th grade, has no principal. Instead, a six-member committee of teachers, the Share Team, is in charge.
 
One Complaint: Discipline
 Despite complaints from some parents and students that discipline is inconsistent and cumbersome -- a group of high school students once stormed out in protest over that issue -- many here say the Share Team works. They say it has reinvigorated the staff, made the budget process easier, brought in a host of new academic and extracurricular programs and successfully dealt with teachers whose conduct was unacceptable.
"A lot of good things have happened," said Darrell Nelson, the Superintendent of Independent School District 2, who plans to ask the state for permission to continue the experiment another three years. "The Share Team might not work as well as a really excellent principal. But it is certainly a lot better than a poor one."
Other school districts across the nation, including those in Miami and New York City, are experimenting with restructuring school administrations with the aim of getting teachers and parents more involved in running the schools. But when Hill City's Share Team volunteered on short notice to replace a principal who had quit suddenly, they took the now familiar jargon of school reform -- site-based management, shared decision-making and teacher empowerment -- and stretched it farther than most.
Reform models usually involve the principal and a committee of parents and teachers making major decisions. Experts say that probably fewer than a handful of schools have gone the route of eliminating the principal's job altogether.
About 200 miles north of Minneapolis, where Highway 169 is a two-lane road slicing through hay fields and pine forests, the small cluster of buildings in Hill City do not draw enough traffic to warrant a signal light.
But in this pastoral setting, there are problems nonetheless: boredom, isolation, alcoholism, broken homes, teen-age pregnancy and unemployment. More than half the children at the school are eligible for free or reduced-cost lunches. The school, some teachers said, is the only warm and cheerful place some children have to go to.
 
Meeting Before Classes
 To run it, the Share Team meets every morning for 45 minutes before classes and on Wednesday afternoons for several hours.
At a recent gathering, the agenda included a review of a teacher's proposal to take a third grade class on a field trip on Halloween ("We'd better talk to her; if she has any idea what third graders are like on Halloween, she won't want to do that"); the problem of inappropriate displays of affection among students in the hall (bring up at a faculty meeting); the price of a junior class spaghetti dinner (after much discussion, preschoolers, free; $1.50 for students; $2 for adults), and whether $1,500 of the district's money should be spent sending a teacher to learn about a new teaching approach (the consensus was not to waste money on what might be a fad.)
A principal might have dispensed with some of these items in seconds. But Mr. Nelson, among others, argues that the team approach might save time.
"When you do it this way, you spend much less time handling the mistakes afterwards," he said.
The idea for the Share Team came from a committee of teachers studying new ways of running schools in August 1988 when the principal resigned and the school board had trouble replacing him.
"One day, we were just kicking around ideas and this was suggested and everybody started getting real excited," said Jack Burt, a science teacher who is on the Share Team. "We drafted a proposal, took it to the board and they said O.K." The Staff Helping Administer Responsible Education (Share) Team was born.
Under the plan, the team, which had eight volunteers in the first year, took over the responsibilities of the principal, from curriculum changes and budget decisions to student discipline and teacher evaluations.
 
Boost to Teacher Morale
 Most teachers say the major benefit has been a boost to their morale and creativity. Instead of having a principal dictating changes or endorsing one philosophy, the teachers have a sense of ownership and more freedom to try new things.
"It has opened things up to say: 'If you have an idea and you believe it strongly and really want to do it, go ahead,' " said Linda Bauer, the school's guidance counselor. "Nobody is going to say, 'That's not my philosophy.' "
Loren Brown, who teaches English, agrees: "We're all equals. If you have a concern, not only are you heard, but it is appreciated."
Since the team took charge, a literature-based reading and writing program and Lego/Logo construction sets, a sophisticated computer learning system using building blocks with electronic sensors, have been introduced in the elementary grades. A new math text has been chosen for the upper grades. Each student has been given a teacher adviser, and a program has been started that teaches students how to help resolve the problems of other students.
Sue Kaslow, a school board member who has three children in the school, said she has seen improvements. One of her children had had both behavioral and learning problems that have disappeared, she said.
"There are lots of different styles now," Mrs. Kaslow said. "Some classrooms are very strict. Others are not. The teachers are much happier, and there are different learning experiences for the kids."
Volunteerism among the staff has also shot way up, Mr. Nelson said. The principal used to be forced to assign staff members to watch the lunchroom and the school buses. But now teachers usually sign up and take turns.
The budget process has become friendlier. The team chose to tell teachers what their budgets were, then allowed them to decide how the money would be spent on items like supplies and field trips.
In the past, the principal had asked the teachers for lists of what they wanted but made changes as he saw fit. Since the teachers had no idea how much money was available or how much an item cost, the process usually left them frustrated and angry and took months to settle.
"The difference this has made is just incredible," Mrs. Kaslow said. "What used to take two to three months takes two to three weeks."
 
Some Mixed Reactions
 But the team concept has not been without controversy.
While teachers overwhelmingly support the Share Team, Joe Nathan, a consultant hired by the district to evaluate the experiment, found that students and parents had a more mixed reaction. Mr. Nathan, a senior fellow at the Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota, said much of their displeasure concerned discipline problems.
The school does not have an administrator responsible for discipline. Infractions are handled either by a Share Team member who is free at the time, by several team members or by the entire team at its weekly meeting.
Some students and parents say that the teachers' approaches vary and sometimes, knowing more about the students than a principal would, they tend to meddle too much in students' personal lives. Several students described incidents in which they felt the teachers had gone too far. One involved a girl who had been accused of drinking while at a concert in a nearby town. The teachers, she said, asked her if her mother had drinking problems, too. In another case, a girl was questioned about a visit to a birth control clinic.
"When there was a principal and you did something wrong, you got detention and that was it," said Desi Linquist, a senior. "Now they get too personal."
A series of disputes over discipline and the feeling that there was nobody for the students to talk to prompted a two-day walkout in March 1989, students and Share Team members said. Afterward, the president of the Student Council was invited to attend the weekly team meetings.
Still, not everyone is satisfied that these issues have been resolved. Vernon Bishop ran for and was elected to the school board last year when he felt his son had been unfairly treated by the basketball coach and there was no one to turn to in authority.
"The Share Team probably has some benefits," he said. "But it's like having the police department policing its own people. I don't think that works real well."
 
'It Works Really Well'
 The Superintendent, Mr. Nelson, thinks that has not been a problem. He said the team has taken up the issue of disciplining fellow teachers several times. One case involved telling a colleague that his language in addressing students was too abusive and derogatory. In another, a teacher's sloppy appearance was at issue.
"It works really well," Mr. Nelson said. "It seems to lend more credence to have five or six of your peers sit you down. With a principal it was easier to say, 'Oh, he's just picking on me.' "
Whether the team can continue indefinitely is unclear. Some fear the school might eventually run out of teachers willing to do the extra work.
Each member of the team is paid $4,600 above the regular teaching salary, which can go to $33,000 a year. The additional money the six team members are paid adds up to about half the principal's salary.
But many team members say they routinely spend an extra 10 hours a week at school and sometimes much more.
Elizabeth Paquin, a third-grade teacher, said that with a family to raise she could not consider putting in so many extra hours, despite the extra pay. "The way they work, it's not that much money," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A six-member committee of teachers rather than a principal runs the Hill City School in Hill City, Minn. Members of the team during a recent conference at the school were, from left, Marty Flinch, Jack Burt, Ben Barratto, Ed Miaker, Gwen Hall and Jan Ferraro. (Bob Levine for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HILL CITY (MINN)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; EDUCATION (PRIMARY); PRINCIPALS (SCHOOL); SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION REFORM (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); BUDGETS (53%); 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



671 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
WPP Is Getting a Taste of Tough Times

BYLINE: By Kim Foltz

 BODY:
MARTIN SORRELL, the highly regarded chief executive of the WPP Group, is getting a taste of what it is like to be one of the beleaguered Saatchi brothers, Charles and Maurice, his one-time mentors at Saatchi & Saatchi, with whom he is now competing.
The price of London-based WPP's stock has tumbled since the news on Monday that WPP, the world's largest advertising and communications holding company, expected its 1990 pretax profits to be "somewhat less" than brokers' estimates of 110 million, or about $216 million. 
 In trading on the London Stock Exchange yesterday, WPP's shares lost more than half of their value, plunging to 1.18, or about $2.25. At one point during the day, the share price dipped below a pound.
Analysts now expect WPP's pre-tax profits this year to be about 85 million to 90 million, or $167 million to $176 million. If predictions hold true, that would still exceed last year's profits of 75 million.
Executives at WPP said the company's earnings estimates were revised because of a slowdown in advertising in the United States, Britain, Canada and Australia.
Most of the biggest agencies in this country are feeling the squeeze. Recently, Young & Rubicam, Ayer and Chiat/Day/Mojo each laid off dozens of employees in New York.
But WPP's woes were particularly troubling to analysts. "The market is very concerned about the earnings reduction," said James Dougherty of County NatWest Securities. "We thought we could have high confidence in WPP management, but we've had the rug pulled out from under us."
Last summer, when WPP's stock was trading at 6, Mr. Sorrell confidently told financial analysts that the economic slowdown in the United States and Britian would not have a negative effect on his company.
Mr. Sorrell would not comment on the revised earnings estimates and would not say what, if any, changes it would lead to.
Mr. Sorrell is considered one of the shrewdest deal makers in advertising. He engineered the first hostile takeover of an agency, J. Walter Thompson in 1987, and two years later snatched up one of Madison Avenue's most famous names, Ogilvy & Mather.
But like financially troubled Saatchi & Saatchi, where Mr. Sorrell began his advertising career, WPP paid a high price to put together its empire. Some analysts said a reason for the severe reaction in the financial markets was uneasiness over WPP's mountain of debt, about 350 million, or $686 million.
Some analysts said Mr. Sorrell's latest move was intended to placate his bankers. "The earnings forecasts were reduced to keep the banks from getting nervous about the company's financial situation," said Neil Blackley of James Capel & Company. "WPP is basically sound," he said.
WPP executives said they expected Mr. Sorrell simply to "ride out the storm." The executives also said they did not expect Mr. Sorrell to order any further cost-cutting or layoffs at WPP's two large agency networks, Thompson and Ogilvy.
Analysts said Thompson and Ogilvy were performing well, considering the industry's depressed state. Both have scored substantial successes this year, including the return recently of the $80 million Maxwell House account to Ogilvy.
Some analysts said WPP's earnings outlook would not speed up the negotiations to sell the troubled Scali, McCabe, Sloves unit back to the agency's management. The negotiations have been stalled because Scali cannot come up with the necessary financing.
Scali has been on a losing streak this year. Most recently, it resigned the $40 million Volvo account after a disclosure that a demonstration in a Volvo commercial created by Scali had been faked.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Sorrell, the chief executive of the WPP Group, the world's largest advertising and communications holding company. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: WPP PLC (92%); CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC ADVERTISING (67%); JWT (63%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (58%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WPP GROUP PLC

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); LAYOFFS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); 

PERSON: MARTIN SORRELL (74%); JAMES E DOUGHERTY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



672 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Sued Over Financing Of Health Care

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, Nov. 20

 BODY:
The New Jersey State A.F.L.-C.I.O. and New Jersey Blue Cross and Blue Shield have filed suit seeking an immediate end to the system of financing hospital care for the poor through a hidden tax on hospital bills paid by patients and insurers.
The suit, filed Monday evening in State Superior Court here, charges that the Uncompensated Care Trust Fund system, which collects the payments and disburses them to hospitals, creates labor strife, places employers who provide health-care coverage at a competitive disadvantage with those who do not, and is draining the financial resources of Blue Cross. 
 In 1989, the trust fund disbursed $500 million, collected in surcharges, and this year it is expected to pay out $618 million to New Jersey hospitals.
The system, the only one of its kind in the nation, is scheduled to end on Dec. 31. But a bill has been introduced in the State Senate to continue it for 16 months and to increase the hidden surcharge on patients' hospital bills and insurance premiums to 23 percent from the current 19 percent.
 
Seen as Delaying Tactic
 The entire State Legislature is up for election in 1991 and, in the face of voter anger over new taxes that was evidenced in this month's Congressional elections, the extension is viewed as a way to delay the financing problem until after next year's balloting.
"Unless the court moves quickly to prevent it, we are concerned that the Legislature will simply renew the current system of funding uncompensated care for another 12 to 16 months, and that would be an economic disaster for New Jersey," said Charles A. Marciante, president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. "A blanket renewal of the existing system will serve to drive corporations out of business, force union health plans into bankruptcy, and make paupers out of a whole generation of health-care consumers."
Brenda Bacon, director of Policy and Management for the Florio administration, called the suit "another clear indication of the frustration caused by a system that is rapidly driving people out."
"The system is just collapsing," she said, "and we need to find a consensus to replace this hidden tax that people don't know about with a broad-based method of paying for uncompensated care."
Ms. Bacon was the chairwoman of the Governor's Health Care Study Commission that made 90 recommendations to try to reduce health-care costs, including enactment of a payroll tax to offset the cost of caring for the poor. Employers who provide health-care coverage would be assessed $144 an employee, and those who do not would pay $1,000 a worker.
 
No Endorsement of Report
 Gov. Jim Florio accepted the commission's report last month but has not yet endorsed its provisions, especially the payroll tax, after the angry demonstrations prompted by the adoption of his $2.8 billion tax and school aid programs in June.
Joining in the suit, which seeks to have the method of financing the trust fund declared inequitable and unconstitutional, are Operating Engineers Local 68 and its welfare fund and Newark Refrigeration Warehouse Inc. and Port Newark Refrigeration Warehouse Inc., which employ Local 68 members and contribute to the welfare fund.
The cost of paying Blue Cross premiums for Local 68 workers increased from $2.3 million in 1986 to more than $6.4 million this year, according to the complaint, which was filed with Judge Michael J. O'Neil. Judge O'Neil ordered Frances Dunston, the State Health Commissioner, to respond to the suit by Nov. 30.
Spokesmen for the Health Department and the Attorney General's office in Trenton said that copies of the suit had not yet arrived and that they could not comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (92%); AFL-CIO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF NEW JERSEY;

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HOSPITALS; HEALTH INSURANCE; DISCRIMINATION HOSPITALS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



673 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Home Building Falls in Quarter

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Housing construction fell by 20 percent in the third quarter, with the Northeast suffering the biggest drop, according to a survey.
F. W. Dodge, the construction information division of McGraw-Hill Inc., said on Monday that starts on new houses, condominiums and apartments totaled 299,299 units in the July- September period, down from 371,792 in the 1989 period.
Only three of the nation's 25 largest home-building areas, Phoenix, Dallas and Indianapolis, showed gains in the period, F. W. Dodge said.
"The Northeast, with its 36 percent setback, continued to set the downward pace," said George A. Christie, vice president and chief economist at Dodge. "The North and South Central regions, with smaller- than-average cutbacks, dampened the general collapse."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MHP (NYSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (73%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MCGRAW-HILL INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



674 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Perils Seen for Hussein in New Troop Buildup

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Colin L. Powell, said today that Iraq's decision to send 250,000 more soldiers to southern Iraq and occupied Kuwait might create "new vulnerabilities" for Baghdad "rather than added strength."
General Powell, in separate appearances on three network morning news programs, did not elaborate on his remarks about the Iraqi reinforcements, which was announced on Monday. But other Pentagon officials mentioned at least three ways that Iraq might be weakened by the move. 
 First, the act could turn Kuwait into a huge trap for Iraqi forces. Concentrated in a relatively small geographic region, the Iraqi troops would be more vulnerable to air attacks, and to attempts to cut their supply and communications lines from Baghdad.
Second, feeding and supplying 250,000 more troops, on top of the 430,000 the Pentagon says are already in Kuwait and southern Iraq, would place tremendous strains on Iraq's logistical support system.
 
The Costs Mount
 Some specialists on Middle East armies have estimated that it could cost Baghdad as much as $15 billion a year to feed and supply the additional troops, taxing an economy already feeling the pinch of international trade sanctions.
Third, President Saddam Hussein of Iraq would probably draw some of the additional forces -- a combination of 150,000 newly organized reserves and seven divisions of the regular Iraqi Army -- from troops defending Iraq's borders with Iran, Turkey and Syria. Iraqi defenses along those frontiers would be weakened.
If the reinforcements were diverted from the 100,000 men stationed on the mountainous border with Turkey, it would make it more difficult for Iraq to put down any insurgency among Kurds in that region.
Defense Department officials said there was no indication that Iraq had started to send any of the additional forces.
"We have not seen any evidence of that deployment," the Pentagon spokesman, Pete Williams, said. "If they're going to do it, it could take well over a month."
 
Actual Movement Uncertain
 General Powell and other Defense Department officials expressed doubt that the reinforcements would dramatically increase the threat to the 430,000 United States and other allied forces now in the gulf region.
"It's not clear that large numbers of additional, probably less capable units significantly adds to his combat power in theater," General Powell said on the CBS News program, "This Morning."
"He may be thinking of doing some rotations and some reliefs in place," he said. "But at the moment, it's just part of his headline-of-the-day program, where he tries to divert world opinion from his own aggression."
General Powell said that military intelligence would carefully monitor any Iraqi troop buildup, but that there were no immediate plans to add to the more than 150,000 American reinforcements that President Bush said on Nov. 8 would be sent to the gulf region.
 
Amphibious, but No Landing
 As Pentagon officials mulled over the Iraqi reinforcements, American and Saudi forces were completing a six-day amphibious exercise, which the Pentagon called Imminent Thunder, in northeastern Saudi Arabia.
Rough seas forced cancellation of the landing itself, and Mr. Williams said he could not predict what the Marines would do in if high swells hit during actual combat.
Mr. Williams said that despite the canceled landing, "the majority of the goals of the exercise were accomplished."
Helicopter-borne marines practiced beach assaults. Carrier-based planes practiced giving air protection to troops landing on shore. American and Saudi aircraft out drills to practice coordinating communications.
 
Not Far From Kuwait
 About 1,000 marines, 16 ships and more than 1,100 American and Saudi aircraft joined the drill, the most ambitious of three exercises the United States has conducted since sending troops to the gulf. The two others were carried out in Oman.
The bulk of the exercise was held about 100 miles south of the Saudi border with Kuwait, and a smaller land drill with marines and their Saudi counterparts was carried out about 25 miles from the frontier.
Saudi Arabia reportedly objected to conducting the exercise any closer to Kuwaiti territory, fearing that this might provoke Iraqi forces.
"We weren't trying to provoke Mr. Saddam Hussein," General Powell said on the ABC program, "Good Morning America." "But at the same time, I don't think it's a bad idea for him to see what our capability is in the region."

GRAPHIC: Map of Saudi Arabia showing location of Kuwait.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); KUWAIT (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); TURKEY (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; POWELL, COLIN L (GEN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



675 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: To Quiet Its Own Critics, China Aims at Japan

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Perhaps getting tired of criticizing only the United States, China's official press has found a new target: Japan.
The flurry of critical articles may reflect the Chinese Government's desire to rally nationalist support behind it, as well as to outmaneuver dissidents who would like to hold anti-Japan protests as an implicit reproof of their own leaders. 
 Students at several universities in Beijing discussed holding an anti-Japan demonstration recently, and even applied formally with the Government for permission to hold the protest, said a university teacher with first-hand knowledge. The Government rejected the application -- it had labeled similar protests in 1985 "reactionary" -- and the students decided not to hold an illegal protest, the teacher said.
Tensions with Japan came to light last month, over Tokyo's plans to send troops to the Persian Gulf and over a territorial dispute about some uninhabited islands in the East China Sea. The dispute about ownership of the islands, called Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu Islands by China, aroused a storm throughout the Chinese-speaking world and led to anti-Japan demonstrations in Hong Kong and Taiwan.
The Chinese and Japanese Governments seemed to prefer to allow the matter to die down, and the leadership in Beijing may have been worried that nationalist demonstrations would spread to the Chinese mainland. In 1985, university students in Beijing and the central Chinese city of Wuhan protested against Japan, accusing it of economic imperialism and of trying to cover up World War II atrocities.
The 1985 protests were also critical of the Chinese Government, for not defending the national honor and for allowing China to become so weak that such humiliations were possible. University campuses brim with discontent these days, and the Government may fear that students would seize upon a non-political issue to start a new round of anti-Government protests.
The latest issue to bedevil relations is the assertion by a prominent Japanese nationalist that China has greatly exaggerated the Japanese Army's atrocities during the 1937-38 "Rape of Nanjing." The comment was made by Shintaro Ishihara, who is best known for his book "The Japan That Can Say No."
After a delay, as China's Propaganda Department was apparently deciding how to handle the matter, People's Daily published an article attacking Mr. Ishihara under the headline "Lies Cannot Obscure Facts Written in Blood."
Mr. Ishihara then suggested that itwas his detractors who were the liars. After another delay, People's Daily responded with a long, stinging article on Sunday, accompanied by an editorial cartoon of Mr. Ishihara and two photos of what it said were Japanese atrocities during the Rape of Nanjing.
"The troops of Japanese aggression committed monstrous crimes at Nanjing 53 years ago," the People's Daily editors wrote in a note above Sunday's article. "With extreme brutality and cruelty, they killed more than 300,000 Chinese."
Some Western estimates of the number killed are lower, but historians generally agree that the casualties were enormous and that the incident left a major imprint on the Chinese psyche.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); JIANGSU, CHINA (88%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (86%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ARMIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (62%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



676 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Washington to New York on 4.3 Gallons

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Some drivers are not willing to trade size and smooth ride for fuel economy, but for those who are, no car sold in the United States gets better gasoline mileage than the Geo Metro. On a recent drive from Washington to New York, the car, made in Japan by the Suzuki Motor Company and sold by the General Motors Corporation, consumed 4.3 gallons, which comes to 58 miles a gallon.
The Metro's fuel economy, as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency, is 54 miles a gallon. The average car on the road in 1990 gets 20 miles a gallon, according to the Department of Energy. If every car did as well as the Metro, gasoline consumption, now about 7.3 million barrels a day, would fall to 2.7 million barrels a day, a drop of 4.6 million barrels. 
 Last year, imports averaged 8.1 million barrels a day, so such a switch -- if not accompanied by an increase in the number of cars or the average number of miles each was driven -- would cut imports by more than half.
 
High Technology
 The Metro does the job through high technology and plain old shrinkage. The Metro weighs 1,600 pounds, halfway between an intermediate car and a bicycle.
Part of the weight loss is from the engine, which is a mere 157 pounds. It is made of aluminum and has three cylinders. (Dropping the fourth cylinder adds six miles a gallon, G.M. engineers say.) To compensate for its small size, the engine squeezes the fuel-air mixture to nine times atmospheric pressure before lighting the spark, a higher ratio than in most cars, allowing more horsepower for each pound of engine weight.
The five-speed manual transmission is wired to a light on the dashboard that reminds the driver when to shift up. The light urges shifting when revolutions per minute are low relative to when most drivers would shift on their own. That raises mileage at the expense of performance.
With its low weight, the car does not need power steering, which adds weight to other cars. The copy that General Motors keeps for test drives lacks even ordinary refinements like a passenger-side mirror and a rear-window defogger.
The model driven to Washington had an ashtray but no lighter, and no radio. And while plusher versions are available, the Metro is designed as a price leader as well as a mileage leader. The Metro is the least expensive model in the Geo line, with a list price for the 1990 version at just under $6,000.
The car handles nimbly and its performance is nothing special, a compliment for a car with mileage 200 percent over average. Pulling from a line of stopped traffic on the Baltimore-Washington Parkway into the adjacent lane, where the traffic was moving at about 50 miles an hour, the Metro performed much as any other small car would. Coming out of the toll booth at the Baltimore Harbor Tunnel, it reached 55 miles an hour in about 15 seconds, as fast as other cars were accelerating.
It does this on 58 horsepower, about half the average. But it does leave the driver feeling in much more intimate contact with the road and all of its bumps. And designers have shrunk the back seat to a size functional for no one but small children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: America's most fuel-efficient car, the Japanese-made Geo Metro sold by the General Motors Corporation, averages 54 miles a gallon. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (83%); SUZUKI MOTOR CO LTD (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUZUKI MOTOR CO

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GASOLINE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



677 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Anticipating Jitters, Not Jingling

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
Store executives across the nation, anticipating a disappointing Christmas season beginning Friday, have already cut back on merchandise and held big sales. But a few, seeing a glimmer of hope in their early November sales, say the situation is so uncertain that results could end up being much better than predicted.
Many stores, having looked hard at the stuttering sales of recent months, are not taking any chances. To try to seize control early, chains ranging from Nordstrom to Sears and from Saks to Woolworth have in recent weeks reduced the number of items they keep in stock and cut their non-sales staffs. 
 Acutely aware that this 32-day holiday shopping period will be more crucial than usual, they also began Christmas promotions disguised as "one-day," "pre-Thanksgiving Day" and "customer appreciation" sales as long as two weeks ago. Some stores have also put extra effort into their holida windows and in-store displays.
 
Canceled Orders
 In one twist, nervous buying managers appear to have canceled more merchandise orders than usual just before the season. That has given some other retailers, perhaps their competitors, the chance to scoop up the goods at cheap prices and to offer them to the public at discounts of as much as 50 percent.
"We have just bought millions of dollars of jogging suits, fleece sweaters, ties and men's shirts at one-third to 50 percent off the wholesale price that other retailers backed off from," said Joseph Levy, chairman of Gottschalks, a chain of 22 department stores based in Fresno, Calif. "That's about four to five times what we've ever done before."
Executives at the nation's largest retailer, Sears, Roebuck & Company, see Christmas customers remaining cautious, particularly on big-ticket items. Yet the chain finds strong sales on the I.B.M. PS1 computer, big-screen television and camcorders, which can be considered high-ticket goods, said Matt Howard, senior vice president for marketing.
Sears has extended weekend hours at most of its stores, promoting its "bonus" plan in which credit customers get a 1 percent rebate on any purchases of at least $200 and is also offering a five-minute credit authorization to new customers on Sears cards if they have Visa or Mastercard.
Sears is also working with its most important suppliers to offer customers "special goods and special prices" on some styles and models, Mr. Howard said.
For now and the next two or three weeks, consumers will find lower prices on widely advertised national and store brands of electronics, toys and clothing. But as the bargain-hunting flurry dies down, shoppers will probably have some trouble finding the models, sizes and colors they want. That is partly because stores, afraid of being stuck with unsold merchandise, have been cautious about building up much depth in their inventories.
Normally accounting for as much as 30 percent of the year's sales and up to 50 percent of profits, a Christmas sales season that is flat could mean additional financial troubles at some of the more highly leveraged of the nation's biggest and best-known retailers inflicted with high debt. Those most often mentioned in industry circles are Macy's, which also operates Bullock's, and I. Magnin in Southern California; Carter Hawley Hale Stores, which owns the Broadway chain in the Southwest; Federated Department Stores, owner of Bloomingdale's among others, and Ames Department Stores.
The companies insist they are in no danger of going out of business, even if Christmas sales are unspectacular.
Many smaller highly leveraged companies face an uncertain future as well.
 
Impact of Mideast Crisis
 "The question of how a company might be affected by a tough season depends on how much each one owes the bank," said James F. Nordstrom, a co-chairman of Nordstrom Inc., the big Seattle-based fashion chain. "I am always optimistic. But being optimistic five years ago meant you were expected a 20 percent sales gain. Now, it means any gain at all."
The dour outlook for what should be American retailing's big splurge comes from almost a year of erratic sales combined with an even worse trend beginning in August with Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
Many American retailers, battered by lower third-quarter profits and disappointing October sales, are expressing only limited optimism. Others say that a lack of consumer confidence and the Mideast crisis have made this season so much of an enigma that they will not really have a handle on it until the last week or 10 days.
The Christmas pot for retailers is a huge one. In December last year, department store sales totaled $14.4 billion, up almost 6 percent from the year before. Given the average of 3.5 percent after-tax profit, this meant that United States merchants would have earned about $504 million on their sales.
 
Keeping Up an Image
 But since many retailers slashed prices just to bring shoppers into their stores, as they are doing now, their profits were lower than expected. That will probably be the case again this year. In fact, industry experts say the drumbeat of sales has conditioned consumers to expect discounted prices on a wide range of goods from an wide number of stores.
Some chains, like Brooks Brothers, are striving hard to keep up their image (and profits) by resisting the pressure. But as a top New York fashion store executive who asked not to be identified said, "Even though we hold ourselves above these constant sales, our shoppers are into it and we must not ignore that."
Some top executives at high-debt companies say the potential effects of a bad Christmas season may well be exaggerated because of cautious measures they have already taken.
"Christmas is an important part of the year's business, but we have anticipated a bit of a slowdown and factored it into our plans," said Allen I. Questrom, chairman and chief executive of Federated Stores Inc., the parent of Bloomingdale's, Abraham & Straus, Burdines, Jordan Marsh and other stores, all of which are in voluntary bankruptcy. "In fact, I don't think the holiday will be as bad as expected by some of those who see a disastrous turndown. With our stores, unless there is a catastrophic difference between what we have planned and what evolves, it will not be a make-or-break situation."
 
'A Nerve-Wracking Business'
 Employees closer to retailing's front lines are feeling the holiday pressures.
Carol Voss, a women's sportswear buyer for Lazarus, a Federated division in Ohio, said in a telephone interview from Cincinnati: "It's always a nerve-racking business waiting for the big season. As a buyer for the last 16 years, I wouldn't call it my most challenging year but there is still a lot of tension about how it will all come out and how good will the profit be. But then again, you can take so much pressure and then you tell yourself, 'I'll let it roll off my back.' "
Despite the fact that Lazarus as a Federated division is also in bankruptcy, she added: "I find there's still an opportunity for creativity. Since we have been disciplined about orders, I still have a lot of money to spend for holiday goods. If a trend develops, we'll use the money."
The New York executive who cited the effect of constant sales also said: "I'm very cautious and we aren't going out to buy in anticipation of big increases. But I do think, too, that we are all talking ourselves into a recession, particularly with the media constantly playing up bad news. I think that this sort of thing makes people who have money feel guilty about spending it."
 
Mood of the Creditors
 A good or bad season aside, the potential effect on the high-debt companies will depend on "how indulgent their creditors are," said Andrew D. Regan, retail analyst for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities in New York. In Macy's case, he said that the major investors and creditors have too much invested in loans or real estate to "let Macy's slip into a bankruptcy."
"Federated is in a more delicate position," he said.
He said that Carter Hawley Hale was "in a tough situation but is not shedding millions of dollars," while Ames Department Stores was protected by already having shrunk its business "to a level of operating viability."
Daniel Levy, executive vice president of Montgomery Ward Holding Corporation, the parent of the Chicago-based retail chain, said he expected a 5 to 7 percent sales increase. He said the company had increased its advertising of apparel and added to its circulation in full-color inserts. Like a growing number of retailers this year, Wards is also participating in a joint-promotion program, with Mastercard International. Credit card users can obtain special discounts through a Ward's coupon book.
Edison Brothers Stores of St. Louis operates the Jeans West, Oak Tree and other young men's specialty apparel chains. Martin K. Sneider, president, said the more fashion-oriented chains will "be more aggressive on price." But he said that classic items, like chambray shirts and tennis sweaters, will be much in demand "and won't need any price slashing."
Predicting that retailers are being overcautious on inventory, Walter K. Levy, the New York retail marketing consultant, said: "Some retailers may be attempting to maintain liquidity by holding out buying funds and hoping thereby to pay less for the goods. But they may be disappointed because the big retailers are able to use their muscle to get what they want when they want it."
He added that "the name of the game in today's retailing is conversion -- converting the looker into a customer and the customer into a higher-ticket item." He said: "This can only be done by clearly identifying the hot item and getting rid of the clutter. Retailers do not do a very good job in that respect."

GRAPHIC: Graph: Sales gains during the Christmas season for U.S. department stores from '80 to '90 (Sources: Commerce Department; National Retail Federation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: FRESNO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHRISTMAS; SALES; HOLIDAY TRADE; CHRISTMAS; DISCOUNT SELLING CHRISTMAS (93%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (79%); SALES FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); POINT OF PURCHASE ADVERTISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); WHOLESALERS (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); MEN'S CLOTHING (65%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



678 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Rise as Commodities Fall

DATELINE: KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Another big drop in the price of basic commodities gave impetus to the credit markets yesterday. Prices of Treasury securities rose, and interest rates fell in generally thin trading.
Most of the gain was relegated to long-term notes and bonds, which are more susceptible to shifts in inflation expectations than shorter-term issues. 
 The driving force in the market was a drop in the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 leading commodity prices, which fell by 3.29 points, to 223.15, its lowest level since July 1989. In addition, dealers said, a report on housing activity during October was even weaker than expected, and provided some additional support to the market.
 
Looking Down the Road
 "Clearly, the commodity markets are telling us that the primary impact of rising oil prices is to exacerbate woes in the economy rather than to promote an acceleration in inflation," said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a firm in Princeton, N.J., that provides research and commentary on developments in the foreign exchange and credit markets. "These price movements are a leading indicator of what is in store for the economy in the months ahead."
But as on Monday, when prices slipped by about the same amount as they rose yesterday, dealers said they did not attach much significance to the moves.
"With a light economic calendar and the Fed having just made a move, all we are doing is chopping around right now," a government bond trader said. "It's what usually happens in a week that is distorted by a holiday."
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 7/8 percent 30-year bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 103 5/32, up by 18/32, to yield 8.45 percent, down from 8.51 percent late on Monday.
Among Treasury note issues, the 8 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered in late trading at 101 3/8, up by 10/32, to yield 8.29 percent. And the 7 3/4 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 9/32, up by 1/32, to yield 7.58 percent.
 
Short-Term Rates Mixed
 Short-term Treasury bill rates were narrrowly mixed.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.08 percent, up by a basis point, or one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by 2 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.04 percent. One-year bill rates dipped, also by a basis point, to a late offered rate of 6.84 percent.
Activity in the investment-grade corporate bond market was highlighted by a $300 million offering of 10-year notes by the ICI Finance Corporation, an American unit of ICI P.L.C., the British chemicals giant.
The 9 1/2 percent notes, which mature on Nov. 15, 2000, were priced at $99.82, to yield 9.527 percent, or 1.20 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 1/2 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The debt offering was ICI's first in the United States in about four years, corporate finance specialists said. In large measure, the offering was prompted by the recent big drop in the value of the dollar against the British pound and other leading European currencies. The decline has made financing in the United States attractive for many companies based in Britain, as well as on the Continent.
Goldman, Sachs & Company was lead manager for the underwriting. The securities are rated AA-3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and AA-minus by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Besides the ICI deal, the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation offered $150 million of first-mortgage bonds through an underwriting syndicate led by Merrill Lynch & Company.
The 9.75 percent securities, which mature Nov. 1, 2005, were priced at $100, or par, or 1.45 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 1/2 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities, which are noncallable for life, are rated Baa-2 by Moody's and BBB by Standard & Poor's.
Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was light, traders said. Prices of most issues rose by about a quarter of a point on the day.
Participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds said that prices of most widely quoted issues rose by about an eighth of a point in quiet pre-holiday trading.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Treasury yield curve (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ICI FINANCE PLC (50%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS PRICE INCREASES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



679 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Brady Warns Regulators About Credit

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

 BODY:
Reflecting the growing view in the Bush Administration that unnecessarily tight credit is contributing to softness in the economy, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady urged bankers and Government regulators last night to take steps to make loans more readily available.
In a speech at a dinner of the New York chapter of the Arthritis Foundation, Mr. Brady said that even in hard times banks had many ways to strengthen their balance sheets without restricting loans to creditworthy customers. 
 "I know that it is never easy to cut costs or even dividends or to agree to combine with a longtime rival," Mr. Brady said. "These are tough solutions to tough problems. But they've got to be faced."
To regulators, the Secretary said: "Use some judgment. Apply some balance. Don't use unrealistically negative scenarios in evaluating loans. Don't overreact."
This was the first time Mr. Brady has suggested publicly that overkill by the regulators may be partly to blame for the tighter credit policies of many banks. Within the Administration, he has generally sided with Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, in holding that the slowdown in bank lending reflects market forces, not regulatory practices. Other top officials, including Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher and John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, have argued that bank regulators have been too zealous.
The Federal Reserve Board reported Monday that a survey of top loan officers last month indicated that banks were continuing to toughen their lending standards and turn away good customers. If many companies cannot borrow the money they need, business activity will suffer, putting a drag on the national economy.
Asked about the Secretary's apparent criticism of regulators, a senior Treasury official said Mr. Brady did not "mean to suggest that regulators have applied improper standards." He merely wanted to say: "Use good judgment. Don't assume that $100 oil is likely to go on for two years," the official said.
Mr. Brady's appearance at the fund-raising dinner of the Arthritis Foundation, held in the Pierre Hotel, had a personal touch. He suffered for years from arthritis of the hip and underwent hip-replacement surgery last winter at the Hospital for Special Surgery in Manhattan.
For months, the Treasury has been working on a study of deposit insurance and the overall structure of the banking system, and its report is due around New Year's Day.
Mr. Brady declined to specify last night what recommendations would be made but he declared, "It's time to overhaul the system."
After the report is published, the Bush Administration is expected to propose legislation that would rewrite laws enacted during the Depression that limit the capacity of banks to operate across state lines and prohibit them from expanding into such areas as underwriting securities, selling insurance and operating mutual funds.
The legislation is likely to be supported by the large banks. But the Administration may face a fight from smaller banks and the securities industry, both of which have powerful lobbies on Capitol Hill.
Mr. Brady said he was prepared for the fight. "We need fundamental structural reform," he declared, "and as Secretary of the Treasury, I am committed to this goal."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION (58%); ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARTHRITIS (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LEGISLATION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); ORTHOPEDICS (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (60%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (57%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



680 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Zenith's Strategy Pressed for Time

BYLINE: By Edmund L. Andrews

 BODY:
IT has a grand name, a promising technology but a depressing record of losses. Now, with its stock in the pits and a possible takeover battle on the horizon, the Zenith Electronics Corporation may be running out of time to carry off a strategy to become a technology pioneer.
Zenith, the last American company that still makes television sets, has spent years trying to position itself for the future. Amid brutal competition from Japanese and Korean television companies, Zenith not only stayed in the business but also doubled its bet. It has sunk millions into developing high-definition systems, and decided last year to sell its desktop computer business to strengthen its balance sheet and concentrate on only one industry. In theory, this is just the kind of gutsy, long-term strategy that business experts applaud. But Zenith lost $68 million in 1989 and $38 million through the third quarter of 1990. With recession fears clouding the crucial Christmas quarter, most analysts expect more grim news ahead. 
 Now comes cash-rich Nycor Inc., which announced Oct. 31 that it had bought 8.2 percent of Zenith's stock for $10.8 million and may seek control. Nycor is a spinoff of the Fedders Corporation, which makes room air-conditioners. It is headed by the same father-and-son team that still runs Fedders: Salvatore Giordano and Salvatore Giordano Jr. Nycor has $62 million in cash and no operating business, having sold off divisions that make air compressors and automotive parts.
The Giordanos have not disclosed their intentions, and Zenith officials will not comment thus far. But both sides are gearing up for a battle. Nycor has begun a public-relations blitz to underline the contrast between profits at Fedders and evidence of "mismanagement" and high costs at Zenith. Zenith officials have reacted by reiterating the company's underlying strategy.
Nycor's official mission is to buy "underperforming manufacturing assets that fit well with management's experience in manufacturing and marketing," the company said in a news release. The elder Mr. Giordano acquired control of Fedders in the late 1940's, and remains chairman. His son, as chief executive of Fedders, has used aggressive marketing and cost-cutting to extract profit from a market that is nearly as tough as television. Nycor promoters point out that profits at Fedders climbed from $14 million in 1987 to $23.7 million in 1989. Earnings have plunged 40 percent this year, however, for which the company blames the cool weather last summer.
By many measures, Zenith stock is certainly cheap. At yesterday's closing price of $6.25 a share, it is just slightly above its all-time low and far below its price of $30 in the summer of 1988. Its total market value is about $173 million, less than one-ninth of its $1.54 billion in sales last year and about half its book value.
But some analysts contend that the real value of Zenith lies in the intangible assets, its name and its technology. Despite Zenith's losses, which stemmed largely from its sale of Zenith Data Systems and from high research costs, the company retains about 12 percent of the market and has competed well in the sale of high-end sets. Although it is hard to measure the market value of abrand name, it is surely a sizable asset.
Zenith's technology in high-definition television should also prove valuable. The company has developed a high-resolution picture tube, which it wants to use for both television and other markets, like computer work stations and medical imaging systems. Zenith is also competing in the race to develop a transmission technology that will be adopted by the Government as a standard for high-definition television. It remains unclear whether Zenith's system will win, but it is likely that the winning system will at least be a variant of it. James Magid, an analyst at Needham & Company in New York, said Zenith could be well positioned as a manufacturer of high-definition sets, even if it did not win the race. "It is a tremendously undervalued situation," he said.
By any reckoning, these benefits lie in the future. Nycor, by contrast, is clearly looking at the here and now. Citing what it sees as a "bloated work force," it points out that Zenith generated sales of only $48,400 an employee in 1989, while Fedders achieved $133,000 in the air-conditioner market. Nycor officials acknowledge that air-conditioners require far less research and development than HDTV, but they imply that Zenith has simply been frittering away money on HDTV.
But defenders of Zenith worry that the Giordanos will sacrifice the future. At a minimum, they fear that Nycor would put pressure on Zenith to slash its research. In the worst case, it would cut back on manufacturing and simply milk the Zenith name and sell sets made by other companies. "They'd probably make more money than Zenith does now," Mr. Magid said, "but it might not benefit the long-term interests of the shareholder."
Nycor responds that the Giordanos are long-term players who enjoy operating companies. Mark Greenberg, a spokesman, said, "They think they can do a better job of selling television sets, competing against foreigners and making money."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: NYCO (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333413 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL FAN & BLOWER & AIR PURIFICATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3585 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT (91%); SIC3564 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL FANS & BLOWERS & AIR PURIFICATION EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDDERS CORP (91%); ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP; NYCOR INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV) ELECTRONICS (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); EXECUTIVES (61%); HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (51%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L SALVATORE GIORDANO JR (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



681 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: Where All That Gas Goes: Drivers' Thirst for Power

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The United States' dependence on Persian Gulf oil can be explained in part by a tale of two Chevys.
The two 1990 Chevrolet Corsicas look alike and have identical legroom, headroom and trunk space. The difference is in the engines: one takes the car from a standstill to 60 miles an hour in less than 10 seconds and travels 22 miles on a gallon of gasoline. The other takes about four seconds longer to reach 60 miles an hour, but gets five more miles to the gallon. 
 One reason that Americans, who make up only 4 percent of the world's population, consume 40 percent of its gasoline is that when buyers face a choice like this, they tend to take the more powerful, less fuel-efficient engine. While the General Motors Corporation does not keep precise sales numbers, it says the only buyers who prefer the less zippy, less thirsty Corsicas are people who buy cars for other drivers -- purchasers of company vehicles or rental car fleets.
 
Cutting Consumption
 Reversing that trend and choosing the more fuel-efficient model in a given size category could be an easier way to cut gasoline consumption -- and help cut air pollution -- than some of the more frequently mentioned alternatives that many Americans find distasteful: car pooling, taking public transportation, driving smaller cars or driving less.
But since the OPEC price war in 1986, when gasoline prices hit bottom, many Americans have seen no reason to change their behavior. And their legislators have done little to encourage them to do so. Efforts in Congress and in California to nudge people toward more fuel-efficient cars both died on the vine in recent weeks.
Of course, millions of buyers apparently already consider fuel economy important enough to choose small cars or large cars that are the most efficient in their size class. Still, Americans this year bought cars that are, on average, less fuel efficient than the ones they bought in 1988.
 
Quicker and Thirstier
 According to the Environmental Protection Agency, 1990-model cars were, on average, seven-tenths of a second quicker reaching 60 miles an hour than the 1988 models and used 4 percent more gasoline. Such mild shifts in direction have a large effect on oil imports, because two-thirds of oil consumption goes for transportation fuel.
A case could be made that the public is getting contradictory signals. On one hand, much is made of the tremendous cost incurred in protecting the nation's oil supply -- sending a force that could soon number about 380,000 people to face bullets and poison gas in the Persian Gulf. And the bill for imported oil will run nearly $90 billion a year if current prices continue, up from about $50 billion before the gulf crisis.
But consumers seem more responsive to gasoline prices low enough to make speed a cheap thrill and to advertising that emphasizes power and speed.
Differences in fuel consumption mean nearly nothing to the car owner's budget. Cambridge Energy Research Associates reported recently, for example, that depreciation, maintenance, insurance fees and parking come to about 18 cents a mile for the average car on the American road. For a car that gets 22 miles a gallon, the fuel cost per mile at $1.50 a gallon would be 6.8 cents. Switching to a car that got 27 miles a gallon would cut that by 1.2 cents, or about 5 percent of the total cost of operating the car.
Of course, if the price of gasoline rose, the difference in fuel cost per mile driven would too. But as the report pointed out, "They would have to be very large increases indeed, say a doubling or tripling of real gasoline prices."
The Question Rarely Asked
Drivers may not do the calculation, but they seem intrinsically to understand the math. Car dealers say that fuel economy seems to be hardly a consideration for most buyers.
"Nobody's really mentioned gas mileage yet," said William D. Brolsma, a salesman at Fette Ford in Clifton, N.J., as he thought back over the customers of the past few weeks.
At Clifton Dodge nearby, Jeffrey R. Duda said that he had had only one question from a customer about gasoline mileage. There, the Dodge Spirit, with a four-cylinder engine that gets 26 miles a gallon, is also available in a turbocharged model. Mr. Duda said the turbocharged version is so powerful "it feels like a V-8," but it gets 6 miles a gallon less than the four-cylinder version.
"They ask about it," Mr. Duda said of the higher fuel consumption. But if a customer decides on the non-turbo model, it is not the better gas mileage but the $800 difference in price that tips the scales, he said. Buyers are sensitive to the purchase price, not the fuel costs of vehicles, a point of view that does not encourage manufacturers to spend money on research and production of cars that would be more expensive to buy but more economical to run.
 
Economy Gets Little Glory
 Indeed, while car makers are now altering some of their advertising campaigns to address gasoline mileage, popular culture still does not glorify fuel economy with the same enthusiasm it reserves for styling, acceleration and handling. This is evident in the auto makers' ad campaigns and in the car magazines.
In the October issue of Car and Driver, for example, the editor, William Jeanes, wrote that those who would mandate high fuel economy would "put all of us who love cars into devices that looked and ran like enclosed riding lawn mowers." In Road and Track, Volkswagen advertises its supercharged Corrado to drivers who are "somewhere between adolescence and responsibility."
The taste for performance may swallow the gains that could come in the next few years from technical improvements. According to the Energy Department, even with no new inventions, car manufacturers will tend to apply existing fuel-saving technologies more widely in years to come. This could raise the mileage of new cars to between 32 and 34 miles a gallon in the year 2000, from about 28 miles a gallon now if vehicle weight, size and performance stay the same, which may not be the case.
 
Manufacturers' Intent
 "The most important question is, 'Are the manufacturers going to take advantage of that technology gain by improving fuel economy, or by improving performance?' " said Carmine Defiglio, director of the Office of Energy Demand Policy at the Energy Department.
In other words, if the General Motors Corporation redesigns the Corsica body so that there is less wind resistance, uses lighter materials and switches to a high-mileage engine with four valves per cylinder instead of the standard two, it will improve the car's mileage. But it might neutralize that advantage with a bigger engine that could take a car from 0 to 60 one second faster.
The choice, analysts say, may depend on whether the auto makers are responding to public taste, or to law.
"It's going to take Congressional action, just as it did in the mid-1970's," said Senator Richard H. Bryan, a Nevada Democrat whose bill to increase mileage standards for cars and light trucks won a majority in the Senate in the last session but lost on a procedural motion. A companion bill died in the House at the end of the session.
Mr. Bryan attributed the problem to "ideological hangups." In a recent meeting with auto executives in Detroit, he said, one complained that moving away from what the public chooses into a system influenced by the Government's view amounts to a "Stalinist regime."
The auto makers contend that the Government should not be meddling with public taste. They note that while they have high-mileage models available, cars that get more than 40 miles to the gallon accounted for less than 3 percent of sales in 1989. What the car companies emphasize instead is manufacturing quality, power, speed and sport.
Take the Chevrolet Corsica, which is available as a four-cylinder model that averages 27 miles a gallon and has a list price of $9,495, and as a six-cylinder model that averages 22 miles a gallon and lists at $10,180. General Motors would not say what the difference is in profit margin between the two models, but the auto manufacturers do acknowledge that as a rule, the bigger and heavier the car, the larger the profit.
The difference in the Corsicas' fuel economy -- five miles a gallon -- is large compared with the average mileage of cars on the road today, 20 miles a gallon.
Not every car is available in a model that gets five more miles a gallon, but many, like the Corsica, come in at least two configurations that differ substantially in mileage. The more fuel-efficient Corsica generally has a quieter paint job and top speed of 85 miles an hour, or 20 miles above the national speed limit; the model with the bigger engine generally comes with extra letters after its name and can travel at almost double the speed limit.
 
Plateau for Standards
 Through the mid-1970's until the mid-1980's, the Corporate Average Fuel Economy Standards set by Congress pushed mileage higher, but those have reached a plateau, at 28.5 miles a gallon for cars. Meeting the standards was a struggle for some car makers after the collapse of oil prices in 1986, and they have fought hard against efforts to go further. Some car company executives have suggested that if Congress wants better gas mileage, it should take the onus off Detroit by passing a gasoline tax, which would make the public want more fuel-efficient cars.
But the recent budget battle in Washington showed that even a tax of 12 cents a gallon, hardly enough to make much difference in consumers' purchasing patterns, was more than Congress could stomach. It settled on a five-cent increase, and attention has moved back to new mileage standards.
 
Focus on California
 Although the Bryan bill was defeated, environmentalists and those favoring more energy independence are focusing on California, which has previously led the way for the nation in tailpipe pollution standards.
Earlier this year, the California Legislature approved a bill that would have changed the current 6 percent sales tax on all automobiles to a sliding scale, from zero to 12 percent, depending on fuel economy and pollutant emissions. Gov. George Deukmejian vetoed the bill, however.
Mr. Deukmejian leaves office next year, and backers intend to push for enactment of the measure again when the new Governor, Pete Wilson, comes in.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 6, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Nov. 21 about automobile power and fuel consumption misstated the top speed of the four-cylinder Chevrolet Corsica. It is 108 miles an hour, the same as the top speed of the six-cylinder version of the car, according to its manufacturer, the General Motors Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American consumers are more likely to buy the Chevrolet Corsica at right, which has a six-cylinder engine that gets less mileage than the almost-identical Corsica at left, which has a more fuel-efficient four cylinders. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AUTOMOBILES ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); TRENDS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); AIR QUALITY (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (66%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); AIR POLLUTION (51%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



682 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
Delinquent mortgages at Citicorp increased substantially in the third quarter to 3.6 percent of the dollar amount or loans, up from 3 percent at June 30, with much of the rise coming from the economically depressed Northeast. [Page D1.]
Home building plunged 6 percent in October, the Commerce Department said, extending the longest slide on record and putting starts at their lowest level since the 1981-82 recession. [D1.]
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady urged bankers and Government regulators to make loans more readily available. [D1.]
Americans consume 40 percent of the world's gasoline, even though they make up only 4 percent of the world's population. [A1.]
Michael R. Milken is to be sentenced today on six felony charges to which he pleaded guilty. He faces a maximum of 28 years in prison, but legal experts generally predict 2 to 10 years. Whatever sentence Federal District Judge Kimba M. Wood hands down, the experts say, controversy will follow. [D1.]
Store executives across the nation, foreseeing a disappointing Christmas season, are cutting back on merchandise and holding sales. But a few see hope in their early November sales. [D1.]
An aide to Senator John McCain testified that she warned the Arizona Republican that his colleague, Senator Dennis DeConcini, was seeking to press Mr. McCain into improper negotiations with regulators on behalf of a savings unit executive. [B8.]
 
MARKETS
The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 35.15 points, to 2530.20, as Boeing led blue chip stocks sharply downward. [D1.]
Oil prices fell sharply as traders concluded that a military confrontation with Iraq was unlikely anytime soon. [D6.]
The dollar rose against most major currencies, particularly the British pound. [D17.] Grain prices skidded on the Chicago Board of Trade, in the absence of a food aid plan for Moscow. [D17.]
Prices of Treasury securities rose, and interest rates fell in thin trading in response to a 3.29-point drop in the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 leading commodity prices to 223.15, its lowest level since July 1989. [D16.] Yields on bank certificates of deposit and money market accounts were mostly lower. [D20.]
 
COMPANIES
Mollie Raab, the wife of Genentech's president and chief executive, G. Kirk Raab, was fined $162,400 by the S.E.C. in settlement of an insider trading case. [D2.]
JMB Realty confirmed reports that it would slow its pace of buying and developing shopping centers and office buildings. [D4.]
CBS will cut program payments to its affiliated stations by 20 percent, the network said, saving about $30 million a year. [D4.]
The Daily News announced that it was filing civil suits against 11 individual strikers, who, it said, have hurt newspaper sales. [B2.]
 
BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
Electronics and computer companies are introducing products to link computers with light, radio and microwave signals, to lessen the snarl of wiring in offices. [D9.]
The aluminum can is now taking on the market for noncarbonated beverages and foods, as well as carbonated beverages. [D9.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
Redirecting the products of Europe's farm subsidies from competitive world markets to Soviet tables might solve both the trade and Soviet food problems. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Zenith Electronics may be running out of time to carry off a strategy to become a technology pioneer. Market Place. [D10.]
The stock of London-based WPP Group tumbled on news that the company expected profits to be less than the $216 million that had been forecast by analysts. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (65%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (65%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (65%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BOEING CO (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); SENTENCING (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); RETAILERS (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); ELECTRONICS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); FELONIES (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); JUDGES (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (66%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (65%); INSIDER TRADING (64%); BRITISH POUND (63%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (61%); CHRISTMAS (52%); MICROWAVE COMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



683 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-16
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain failed to knock her rival, Michael Heseltine, out of the contest for the leadership of the Conservative Party. The fight goes to a second ballot next Tuesday. Page A1
Thatcher vows to keep fighting for Tory leadership A16
The U.S. and Soviet Union said that further U.N. action would be needed get Iraq out of Kuwait, but apparently failed again to reach an agreement on what steps the Security Council should take to achieve that aim. A1
News analysis: A matter of timing, as opposed to a rupture in the solid front against Iraq, appears to separate members of the U.N. Security Council on whether to authorize use of force against the Iraqis. A10
Iraq will free all German hostages, Baghdad announced, acknowledging that the move was meant to divide the international coalition against them and to prevent military action in the Persian Gulf. A11
Perils seen for Hussein new troop buildup A11
45 in House sue Bush over gulf war A11
Arab nations to ease stand on Israel A3
Ex-C.I.A. official says U.S. ignores Syrian terror A11
A cultural gap between U.S. soldiers and their Saudi hosts appears to be widening, leaving each staring at the other across a chasm neither can easily bridge. A10
 A warning at the meeting in Paris was sounded by Eastern European leaders. They said Europe's stability could be threatened if ideological separation is replaced by an economic and social divide. A1
A new cult of the Romanovs is rising in the Soviet Union. A warm embrace from both church and state is helping to give the last czar, Nicholas II, who was killed along with his family 72 years ago, the kind of following that eluded him in life. A1
Valdice prison blues a bit happier now A14
Ohrid Journal: Pharaohs in their past? So Yugoslavs say A4
20 die in rebel assaults in El Salvador A3
South Asian nations, in turmoil, will meet A7
Attack by Punjab gunmen kills 13 and wounds 15 at market A6
Burma sentences two from opposition A8
 
 National A18, B8-10, D21
A preference for peppy cars with less fuel-efficient engines explains in part the American dependence on oil from the Persian Gulf. The U.S. makes up only 4 percent of the world's population but consumes 40 percent of its gasoline. A1 A curfew for teen-agers in Atlanta went into effect, with some residents hoping that it would reduce drug-related violence and others charging that it is singling out poor black children and their parents. A1
The murder of a woman in Boston has drawn outrage, and not just at the crime. The woman was raped, beaten and stabbed 132 times. Yet the case attracted no special attention -- some say because the victim was poor, black and possibly a prostitute. A1
The space shuttle Atlantis landed at Cape Canaveral as the space agency scrapped a scheduled touchdown in California because of winds and rain. Landings in Florida are considered riskier because of the runway. A18
A television station in Baltimore was charged with discriminating against an anchorwoman in pay and working conditions because of her sex. TheFederal agency bringing the charges said it wanted to "send a message" to the television industry. A18
Los Angeles Journal: An amusement ride? No, a train A18
Victim of fiery suicide at Capitol was Vietnam immigrant A18
An aide to Sen. John McCain testified that she warned him that his Democratic colleague, Senator Dennis DeConcini, was seeking to pressure him into improper negotiations with Federal regulators on behalf of a savings and loan executive in 1987. B8
Teamster leader assailed in ouster B8
CNN gives Noriega tapes to court B9
F.D.A.'s tests on milk are called inadequate D21
New pictures from space show giant storm on Saturn D21
Smoking researcher seeks grant from tobacco company D21
The Christmas shopping season this year looms as more of an enigma than any other recent one, and retailers have been cutting back on merchandise and holding big sales as a result. D1
 
 Regional B1-7
Bridge and tunnel tolls may go up a dollar for Hudson River connections, and the fare on PATH trains may rise 25 cents under a proposal announced by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. B1
Hundreds of livery-cab drivers, in angry protest over a $2,700 workers' compensation fee that the state has ordered them to pay, all but sealed off the Brooklyn Bridge and the Queens-Midtown Tunnel and snarled traffic on other highways. B1
News analysis: Governor Cuomo seemed to be trying to re-establish himself as a sound manager with his latest budget plan. But as stringent as the proposed cuts seem, they are only a partial solution. The real challenge is still to come. B1
Sexual abuse charges were filed against a Brooklyn woman and her boyfriend. The police said the two abused four sisters -- aged 6, 9, 12 and 16 -- who were placed in their care by city child welfare officials. B1 Killing continues at record pace in New York City B2
Defense foiled in alibi effort at jogger trial B7
News analysis: Mayor Dinkins and Schools Chancellor Fernandez now agree that New York City's school system must cut $90 million. But there remains a battle between the two: whether to cut by attrition or by layoffs. B3
What constitutes a family? A bill before the New York City Council would expand the definition by protecting unmarried domestic partners against discrimination and extending municipal benefits to them. B2
The Daily News sues strikers over its financial loss B2
Company indicted in theft of tenants' money B7
New Jersey sued over financing of health care B4
 
Business Digest D1
 
The Living Section
Food
Cooking turkey: Everybod does it a different way C1
Giving Thanks, the 18th-century way C1
Real men don't carve anymore C1
Eating Well C3
Wine Talk C7
Living
Metropoliatn Diary C2
 
Arts/Entertainment
Milli Vanilli on the Grammy C8
Michael Jackson's megadeal C9
Changes on "Sesame Street"C9
Theater: "Shogun" opens C9
"Carnal Knowledge" C15
Film: "The Nutcracker Prince" C10
"Three Men and a Little Lady" C14
Word and Image: Book Notes C17
Muppets celebrate Henson C20
"The Spiritual Life of Children" C20
 
Education Page B11
A school in Minnesota doesn't have a principal
A class sends a message to Harvard law school
 
 Sports
Baseball: Clemens penalized B13
Millionaire lineup at 162 B13
Basketball: Knicks routed B13
Nets set record B13
Column: Vecsey on bowl-game picture B13
Football: Dolphins' Shula says unbeaten season is possible B13
Hockey: Devils lose B14
 
 Obituaries
Edgar D. Croswell, a retired New York State Police official D23
Gen. Sun Li-jen, a Nationalist Chinese war hero D24
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A22
Twilight for Mrs. Thatcher?
Closed gap on Medigap
Objectivity up in smoke
Topics: All-American disease
Letters A22
Flora Lewis: One empire to go A23
Tom Wicker: Bush's midterm crisis A23
Jan Urban: Eastern Europe -- divided it fails A23
Michael Lewis: Milken's morals, and ours A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); MYANMAR (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); ASIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DESERT STORM (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MURDER (68%); HOSTAGE TAKING (68%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (67%); POPULATION SIZE (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); SEX OFFENSES (65%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL RAY DIBDIN HESELTINE (74%); MARGARET THATCHER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



684 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Hudson Tolls Need $1 Rise, Officials Say

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Officials of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey announced yesterday that they would seek to raise tolls on the agency's bridges and tunnels by a dollar and the fare on PATH trains by 25 cents.
Stanley Brezenoff, the executive director of the Port Authority, said he would ask the agency's board to approve a plan that would increase the $3 round-trip bridge and tunnel tolls to $4, effective Jan. 1. The fare for the PATH rail line, which connects Hudson and Essex Counties with Manhattan, would rise to $1.25, from $1. 
 A similar plan to increase the tolls and train fare last April 1 was dropped when the Governors of New York and New Jersey threatened to veto it in the wake of a public outcry. The Governors have the right to veto any decision by the Port Authority board within 10 working days.
Port Authority officials said the proposed increase was needed to finance major capital projects already under way at airports, bridges, tunnels and PATH.
 
Closing a Budget Gap
 The authority's bridges and tunnels, PATH and the New York City Bus Terminal operate at deficits that are not offset by any state or Federal subsidies, officials said. Instead, revenues from the airports and marine terminals are used to meet the deficits at the interstate crossings. But the deficits jumped, mostly because of operating costs, from $19 million in 1989 to an estimated $50 million in 1990. The authority is scrambling to meet a projected $77 million deficit in the $2.8 billion budget for 1991.
"Nobody likes toll and fare increases, and neither do we," said Mr. Brezenoff, who was named executive director recently. "But this package is necessary. Every dollar of it goes back into our bridges, tunnels, PATH, and related transportation services over the next few years."
If approved, the proposed toll increase would apply to the George Washington, Bayonne and Goethals Bridges, the Outerbridge Crossing and the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels.
Under the plan, a 20-ticket discount book, which currently costs $40, or $2 a trip, would increase to $72 or $3.60 a trip. But the price of a 60-ticket discount book for car pools would remain at $30.
 
Can Demonstrate Need
 Richard Leone, the authority's chairman, said the agency was in a better position to obtain the fare and toll increases than it was last year because the region's economy had worsened and the agency could better demonstrate the need to increase revenues. Also, the authority has a new management team, he said.
Still, Mr. Leone said he was "not exactly optimistic about obtaining the fare increase because I realize we face a tough road ahead."
It is unclear whether the two Governors will agree to any increase approved by the board.
Peter Conroy, a spokesman for Gov. Mario M. Coumo, said yesterday: "The Governor has called for an independent evaluation of the need for a toll increase and he will not approve one until such a study becomes available by the middle of December. Until then we cannot comment on it."
Gov. Jim Florio said in a statement: "I want to hear a very detailed explanation for this request before New Jersey commuters are asked to pay for higher tolls. The Port Authority needs to be able to justify their reasons for this request not only to me but to all those who use our bridges and tunnels and PATH facilities."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ; PORT AUTHORITY BUS TERMINAL (NYC); PORT AUTHORITY TRANS-HUDSON CORP (PATH)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; TOLLS; FINANCES; FORECASTS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; FARES PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); VETO (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



685 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Bill Would Give Unwed Couples Equal Benefits

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
Unmarried domestic partners would be protected against discrimination and would be able to document their relationship officially under a bill that went before the New York City Council yesterday.
The proposed law would, for example, expand health benefits to the unmarried partners of city employees. It would also extend municipal hospital benefits and prison visitation rights to such couples and would apply to city-owned housing and shelters. Both heterosexual and homosexual couples would be covered. 
 Though some other cities have enlarged the concept of what constitutes a family, turning the bill into law in New York could be arduous.
The City Council insists that it has no jurisdiction in the matter. Although the bill went to the Council's General Welfare Committee yesterday, a Council spokeswoman said there would be no hearings because the proposed legislation was pre-empted by state laws governing marital rights.
 
'Would Be Unconstitutional'
 "The state has done so much legislation in this area," said the spokeswoman, Peg Breen. "It would be unconstitutional for us to consider it. We cannot change or modify state law."
But the bill's sponsor, Councilwoman Carolyn Maloney, said the Council had the power to enact it because it pertained only to city policies and city employees. She said she would request a hearing after the bill had been in committee for 30 days.
Groups saying they represented gay rights advocates and elderly and disabled people, among others, praised the bill.
"This bill is a universal one," Ms. Maloney said. "It benefits senior citizens, people with physical disabilities, unmarried heterosexual couples, gay men, lesbians and those who are economically disadvantaged. It's time we realized that these nontraditional families contribute just as much to our society as everybody else."
 
Formidable Hurdles Remain
 Under the bill, an unmarried domestic partnership could be established by giving a statement to a county clerk, who would file it and give the partners a certificate. Or a couple could have the statement notarized. To qualify, a couple would have to be unrelated, both unmarried, and at least 18 years old.
To become law, the bill must be approved by the Council committee, passed by the full Council and signed by Mayor David N. Dinkins. The Mayor supports the concept of unmarried domestic partnerships, a spokesman said yesterday, but he would have to study the bill before assessing its impact on city policies.
The cost of extending benefits under the measure are estimated to be between $30 million and $60 million a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION; MARRIAGES; SINGLE PERSONS LEGISLATION (92%); COHABITATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); CITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (76%); GAY PARENTING (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R CAROLYN MALONEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



686 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Real Men Don't Carve Anymore

BYLINE: By GEORGIA DULLEA

 BODY:
SOMEBODY should write a book titled, "Women Who Love Men Who Can't Carve." It would be an instant best seller. Women would run to the self-help sections of book stores and snap up every copy during the holiday season.
This is a time when women of all ages complain that men in their 20's and 30's cannot carve Thanksgiving turkeys the way their fathers and grandfathers did. Men do not deny it. 
 "No men of my generation know how to carve turkeys," said David Hinden, a 28-year-old public relations executive in New York. "Our parents carve and sometimes our wives. The day they expect us to carve is the day we buy turkey parts."
In Chicago, a real estate trainee named Steve Siegel expressed a latent fear of carving. "At Thanksgiving dinner, my role right now is to eat and pass the peas," said Mr. Siegel, 22. "But it's scary to think that someday I'll be standing over my own family turkey with a knife in my hand. I'm not sure I can cut it."
Robert Krist, 38, a freelance photographer with three children and a house in Ridgewood, N.J., said he and his male friends don't do turkeys. One factor, he speculated, may be that they are the new men, sensitive and vulnerable. "We can cry, but we can't carve," he said.
Pressed for the name of a carving man, Mr. Krist suggested a college friend, an orthopedic surgeon in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. "He operated on my knee," he said, "so he could be your man." The surgeon was attending a medical convention in Florida and unavailable for comment.
Rob Cohen, 24, said everybody he knew in Los Angeles, including himself, was too busy peddling movie scripts to even consider carving turkeys. "For what it's worth," he added, "whoever carves turkeys in L.A. does it by the pool."
Talk of carving reminded many young men of their fathers. "When I was a kid he seemed like a tribal chief with that turkey," said Peter Shapiro, 30, a sales promotion executive in Manhattan. "He seemed to be making weird noises." Mr. Shapiro tried making weird noises, but gave up after awhile. "He always carved in the kitchen with the dog sitting next to him. I tried to carve once and the dog got up and left the room."
A lawyer in Houston, Steve Selsberg, 29, said he once tried to carve a good-sized turkey and ended up with "enough meat for a small sandwich." Carving is "a forgotten art," he said. "Maybe men don't carve any more because women don't cook."
That's part of it. Since nobody seems to be roasting great beasts and birds for Sunday dinner these days, nobody is getting practice at carving them. Meat consumption is down. Meat and poultry are being bought in parts at markets or eaten at restaurants. "And you can't carve fast food," said John Loring, a vice president of Tiffany's, which sells those silver carving sets that brides say are tarnishing for lack of use.
Ham might be nice for the holidays, provided somebody else does the slicing. "Did you know that three-quarters of all hams bought for the season are pre-sliced?" asked Dun Gifford of Boston. "I'm amazed."
Mr. Gifford has a mail-order food company and three sons in their 20's. "They know how to sharpen knives and to filet fish," he said, "I passed that along but, now that you mention it, I never thought of carving a bird or a ham. It may just be that this generation has lost the art. If so, that would be tragic."
The potential for tragedy deepens when you consider that carving was the most exalted art among knights of the medieval courts. George Armelagos, a food anthropologist, writes about this in "Consuming Passions," a book on the anthropology of eating. The carver was expert in many butchering utensils, he says, as well as technical terms and social rules. He knew, for example, that only the left wing of the capon would do for the lord, just as modern carvers remember to put a drumstick on Cousin Buddy's plate.
Men are still presiding over the country's carving boards, at least on Thanksgiving. A survey of 80,000 cooks who called in crisis last year to speak to home economists on the Butterball Turkey Talk-line found that 7 out of 10 turkeys were carved by men. Almost 80 percent of all birds were carved in the kitchen rather than at the dining table. "They like to carry it through the living room for the photo op," said Jean Schnelle, director of the hot line. "And then it's back to the kitchen so we don't get grease on the carpet."
When the hot line was born a decade ago, less than 10 percent of callers were men. Ms. Schnelle said that men now make 16 percent of calls and that she suspects many more men would like to call but you know how men hate to ask directions.
"They'll go to the next state before they'll stop and ask at a gas station," she said. "Some men will not ask."
Other men are quite bold. They call on speaker-phones from the table where the whole family can hear Ms. Schnelle talking them through it. After explaining how to remove the thighs and drumsticks, she often compares what's left of the bird to a football. "Cut along that line that goes from tip to tip on the pigskin. . . ."
Ken Kerbs, 30, could have used her advice last year when he found himself the designated carver at his mother-in-law's table in the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn. His wife told him it was a great honor. His mother-in-law brought out the family carving set. "Hey," he said, backing away from the knife. "Be careful with that thing." Then it was turkey time. Faces shone around the table. Mr. Kerbs had a flashback to childhood: His father bending over a turkey with an electric carving knife. The knife interfering with the football game on television. The carving part was also blurry.
Staring down at the bird, Mr. Kerbs saw that it was not even a turkey. It was a stuffed goose. He attempted to steady the goose with the carving knife. It persisted in doing a shimmy on the platter. He flailed away with the knife until a brother-in-law was sent in as a carving consultant.
The brother-in-law was no help. Mr. Kerbs's wife jumped up with a camera to record the moment -- two bewildered-looking young men, symbols of a generation, standing at the end of a table over a bird, its legs sticking up in the air.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; THANKSGIVING DAY; MEN; WOMEN; TURKEYS WRITERS (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); BOOKSTORES (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); SALES PROMOTIONS (73%); ORTHOPEDICS (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); 

PERSON: DULLEA, GEORGIA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



687 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Field of 162 in Majors' $1 Million Lineup

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
More than one-fifth of major league players earned $1 million or more this year, a salary survey determined yesterday.
The survey, based on contract data obtained from management and player sources, showed that the $1 million plateau was attained by 162 players, or 22 percent, of the 735 who were on major league rosters or the disabled list on Aug. 31. Last year, 106 players, or 14.7 percent, gained that level. 
 For the first time, a player reached $3 million or more this year, with Robin Yount of Milwaukee earning $3.2 million. Twenty-eight other players, up from 20 a year ago, hit or surpassed the $2 million mark.
Five teams, including the Mets and the American League's two division champions, Oakland and Boston, had 10 players who earned $1 million or more. The others were Kansas City and San Francisco.
 
Changing Faces
 Last year, the Mets led with nine $1 million-or-more players. They shed Gary Carter, Keith Hernandez and Juan Samuel from that group but added John Franco, Sid Fernandez, Howard Johnson and David Cone. The team's $21.9 million payroll, on the other hand, did not include any $2 million players this year after four had reached that plateau last year. Like many of the highest-paid players, the Mets' millionaires had opted for smaller salaries this year because of the potential lockout, which did occur but did not result in any loss of pay.
At the other end of the spectrum, the Baltimore Orioles had only one player, Cal Ripken Jr., in the $1 million class. The Orioles had the smallest payroll in the majors, $7.98 million (the only one under $10 million) and the lowest average salary, $275,244.
Player salaries are a constant source of debate among owners, players and the players' agents. Salaries have escalated dramatically since free agency was created in 1976, and they became such a sore point with owners that they engaged in a three-year conspiracy against free agents in an effort to halt the escalation, if not reverse the direction in which salaries were headed.
That period of collusion, ended by arbitrators' decisions, will cost each club $10.77 million in a settlement that is being negotiated by lawyers for the two sides. That penalty has prompted some clubs, especially those in smaller markets, to say they will have to temper their contract offers to players.
The Pittsburgh Pirates are a team that faces particularly difficult financial decisions. Their $589,980 average salary placed them 15th among the 26th clubs in the salary standings, but the combination of their division championship, the performances of many of their players and their large group of free agents will send their payroll rocketing upward.
At the moment, if they don't make competitive offers, they stand to lose Sid Bream, Zane Smith and Don Slaught, among others, as free agents. Bobby Bonilla and Andy Van Slyke, two-thirds of the National League's best outfield, can be free agents after next season, and Barry Bonds, the third outfielder and the league's most valuable player, can be a free agent in two years.
The clubs that are reluctant to spend have become critical of those that continue to spend to retain their players or obtain new ones. Oakland, with three consecutive pennants and a spiraling payroll, has become probably the primary target of the economic critics.
 
Athletics Top Salary LIst
 According to the survey conducted by The New York Times, the Athletics, who lost to Cincinnati in the World Series, had the highest average salary, $800,586. The Reds were 17th among the 26 clubs, at $555,895. Just as they were in the American League pennant playoff, the Red Sox were runner-up to Oakland in the salary standings with a $763,046 average.
The Mets and the Yankees were third and fourth, the Mets at $755,437 and the Yankees at $721,991. The Yankees had eight players at $1 million or more, but only one of them, Don Mattingly, was in the $2 million club.
The total major league payroll was $434,750,701 and the average salary $591,498, an increase of $100,000 and 20 percent over last year's average. These are unofficial figures, although baseball does not produce a universally accepted average salary.
The Players Association and the owners' Player Relations Committee each compute average salaries but, because of the different computing methods they use, never agree on the average salary. Last year the players figured the average salary to be $497,254 and the owners $489,539. The Times computed the average at $491,341.
This year, the owners' computer has emitted a preliminary figure of $586,816. Bonuses for post-season awards, which were not included, will raise the average slightly. The players' union will issue its average salary figures next month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (59%); OAKLAND A'S (59%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND ATHLETICS; BALTIMORE ORIOLES

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; SURVEYS AND SERIES BASEBALL (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SALARY SURVEYS (90%); SPORTS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (65%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, ROBIN; CHASS, MURRAY GARY EDMUND CARTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



688 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Twilight for Mrs. Thatcher?

 BODY:
Margaret Thatcher has been counted out at least twice during her remarkable dozen years as Britain's Prime Minister, and each time she has confounded the odds. Yet her narrow failure yesterday to win endorsement as the Conservative Party leader was, for a sitting Prime Minister with a towering world reputation, a towering humiliation.
To survive in her present position, Mrs. Thatcher must win a runoff vote for the party leadership next Tuesday; even if she does, it's clear that she has already been sternly rebuked, for her policies and her imperious style. 
 There is no guarantee that any of her opponents in the Conservative or Labor parties could govern the country any better. But there is evidence that she has overstayed her welcome. As the British political analyst Peter Jenkins recently observed, Mrs. Thatcher, like Queen Elizabeth I, has outlived a generation of courtiers. In the process she has grown as convinced of the rightness of her views as she is contemptuous of others'.
Her combative style has figured heavily in the two policy disputes that persuaded Michael Heseltine, her former Defense Minister, to challenge her leadership. One was her opposition to further economic and political unity in Europe, specifically a common currency. What most angered her fellow Tories was her unwillingness to listen to competing ideas. Sir Geoffrey Howe, for example, was sacked as Foreign Minister when he pushed her publicly to accept currency union.
Similarly, Mrs. Thatcher overrode the advice of many of her most trusted advisers when she imposed a poll tax on each adult citizen, replacing local property taxes. The tax is regressive, inequitable -- and explosively unpopular.
The revolt against Mrs. Thatcher is all the more remarkable given her transforming presence over the past decade. At home, she won admiration and respect for the qualities that won back the Falkland Islands and faced down the striking coal miners. And while Americans have little to fear from any possible successor, they will remember her loyalty to Presidents Reagan and Bush and her willingness, when others were holding back, to encourage Mikhail Gorbachev's revolution in the Soviet Union.
Nor is there any doubt that she changed the face of Britain. For years, Prime Ministers of both parties were content to preside over the nation's economic decline. The Iron Lady said no.
She privatized sluggish state enterprises, curtailed the stultifying power of the trade unions, reduced inflation and created a climate hospitable to enterprise. The country moved rightward and happily so; Mrs. Thatcher's opponents in the Labor Party now talk glowingly about entrepreneurship and the need for Britain to compete on even terms with the rest of the world.
Yet even she would concede that her revolution is incomplete. Britain's sluggish work habits survive, and its productivity still lags. Inflation is running at twice the European average, while public services have declined.
Not all these problems are Mrs. Thatcher's fault, but she is being held to account for them just as surely as she was rewarded for her earlier triumphs. She might have revived her image had she chosen to lead Britain boldly into a unified Europe. Instead she has turned inward, and her party now seems poised to turn her out. Even if she should survive next week's vote, the light is fading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); STRIKES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); TRENDS (62%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



689 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Topics of The Times;
The All-American Disease

 BODY:
The upset election of Bob Rae as Ontario's Premier in September was the first surprise. Then came the budget surprise. As newly elected governors are discovering all over the United States, Mr. Rae found that the province's finances were in worse shape than advertised.
Never before had Ontario, the heart of the Canadian economy, elected a Socialist government. Mr. Rae promised change -- more spending for health and education and higher corporate taxes. During the campaign, officials forecast a small surplus in the $45 billion provincial budget. Barely a week after the election, they broke the news that there would be a $700 million deficit. Mr. Rae's own people now think it may be $2.5 billion.
Incumbents always postpone bad news. Now, with Canada in a real recession, there's no hiding the shortfall. Mr. Rae is forced to concede that some things he seemed bent on doing overnight will, at a minimum, take longer. Budget quicksand knows no boundaries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: TOPICS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; ONTARIO (CANADA)

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GOVERNORS (88%); 

PERSON: RAE, BOB (PREMIER)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



690 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
Bush's Midterm Crisis

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
President Bush's eight-day trip abroad was not planned, so far as is known, as an escape from the troubles that suddenly plague him at home. But he could hardly be blamed if he's enjoying a week of freedom from the nightly news and the daily headlines.
 First, it was the budget fiasco and the perception of the President as unable either to make up his mind or bring his party along in whatever direction he was going. This after his campaign pledge never, never to raise taxes earned him a steep drop in the polls and the prestigious 1990 Doublespeak Award from the National Council of English Teachers. 
 Worse, Mr. Bush managed to do for the Democrats what they had been unable to do for themselves. Virtually singlehandedly he created the so-called "fairness issue" by his stubborn resistance to higher taxes on affluent Americans, while doing his best to get some of them a capital-gains tax break.
 The President then took to the campaign trail, where he and the nation discovered that a number of Republican office-seekers no longer wanted his help or even his presence. Worse, on Election Day, the returns suggested that his influence on the voters -- even in Texas, one of his home states -- was smaller than his hat size.
 Almost as soon as the election was over, the bubble of support he had won for mobilizing the Persian Gulf coalition burst into a storm of criticism. His decision to send more troops to provide an "offensive capacity" (which could have earned him another Doublespeak award, since he had said originally that U.S. forces were "purely defensive") woke Congress and the Democrats and even some Republicans to the prospect of an unwanted war.
 Congress was particularly exercised because Mr. Bush and his Secretary of State, James A. Baker, did some fast footwork around the question of "consulting" its members. Would they even do the constitutional thing and ask Congress to declare the war if they decided to start it? Mr. Bush responded by asking critics to tone it down, lest the country appear to be as divided as it actually is.
 Then, on the eve of his departure for points east, Mr. Bush had to confess that he was "concerned that we're in a downturn" economically -- though he hastened to add, in one of those catchy phrases for which he is renowned, that he was "not a gloom-and-doom person." But a President who wants to be re-elected would rather be concerned about almost anything other than recession.
 All in all, it's been a disastrous autumn for a President who sailed through the summer with an approval rating above 70 percent. It's hard to remember a President who suffered such an abrupt fall from such high standing, and that it happened to George Bush raises hard questions about him and his Presidency.
 Most immediately, will his decline be lasting? Clearly, it doesn't have to be; Mr. Bush is only at the halfway point of his term and has plenty of time and opportunity to move up again in public appreciation. And if he's right that real or threatened recession won't last more than six months -- not everyone shares that view -- the economy could be in good shape again by 1992.
 On the other hand, most of Mr. Bush's political wounds were self-inflicted; witness the budget debacle and the abrupt escalation of defense into offense in the Middle East. Such perceived ineptitude has led to speculation in both parties and on Capitol Hill that Mr. Bush's political skills have deserted him, or never really existed; that his election was mostly the work of clever handlers; that his popularity derived from having had to make few tough decisions; and that an uninspired staff, particularly its abrasive chief, John Sununu, serves him poorly.
 A suddenly floundering President, moreover, does not inspire the respect, even fear, that usually is a major weapon in the White House arsenal. This could have fatal effect in Congress, where Mr. Bush seems to have only halfhearted backing even among Republicans; and it's likely to bring Democratic Presidential candidates out of the woodwork and into Iowa and New Hampshire.
 The most serious question, however, is about the core of belief on which a President, or anyone, usually can rely for guidance when issues are complex and difficult. This President's waffling on the budget, his inability to explain his intentions in the Middle East, his managerial approach to an office that demands persuasiveness and vision -- what these may tell us about George Bush's personal center is not reassuring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



691 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
One Empire to Go

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
The original purpose of the 1975 Helsinki conference was to substitute for a World War II German peace treaty, impossible to sign because of two Germanys. So the Soviets settled for a document guaranteeing the postwar borders and, in effect, recognizing two German states.
The U.S wasn't particularly interested, but its European allies led the way, insisting as a tradeoff from the Soviets that the accords include a "third basket" pledging human rights. The agreements of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe were written off as a sellout by the American right since the pledges didn't even provide lip service for democracy. 
That was a serious misjudgment. The emphasis on human rights, further advanced by President Jimmy Carter's policies, made a big difference. But the critics were proved right in their argument that Communism could not reform. They just failed to see that attempts at reform would lead it to self-destruct.
When another summit meeting was agreed for this year, the point was for all of Europe, plus the U.S. and Canada, to endorse a German settlement. But now Germany is off the agenda, restored to full and single sovereignty. Instead of bothering with the "German question," members of NATO and the moribund Warsaw Pact signed a declaration renouncing the threat or use of force against each other and proclaiming "the security of each indissociably tied to the security of all."
A French TV station ran film of the heads of government arriving and shaking hands in comic speedup, a reflection of the way history had suddenly accelerated. "It's the Congress of Vienna without the dancing," said one delegate.
But unlike the conservative conclave of monarchs establishing the European power balance in 1815, after the Napoleonic wars, this treaty enshrines the concept of military restraint. The new power balance is expressed through economic might.
So the C.S.C.E. issue has turned out to be the problem of finding a place for the "Sovreps." Mr. Gorbachev has proposed changing the U.S.S.R.'s name to Union of Sovereign Republics in his effort to hold his state together, so they can still be called "Sov," but they won't even be Soviet, let alone Socialist. It is a huge problem, and he has a lot more sympathy on it from his fellow government leaders here than from his compatriots. One of the side events was the expulsion of foreign ministers from the three Baltic republics, who had been invited as guests by the French, after the Soviets objected. Nobody wanted to embarrass Mr. Gorbachev.
The Eastern Europeans all face a period of great difficulty and fragility as they try to recover from two generations of Communist mismanagement and spoliation. But their place in the new Europe will be secure. Nobody knows how to accommodate whatever becomes of the U.S.R., if it emerges, or what to make of Russia.
It doesn't fit in the European context, but it is not an ocean away, like the U.S. The new Soviet threat, palpable to Europeans, is disintegration leading to violence. Moscow's former allies are bluntly told not to seek protection from their distraught neighbor by trying to join NATO. Manfred Worner, NATO's Secretary General, said plainly, "We don't want to create additional problems for the Soviets and for Gorbachev."
The long cold war ended without a fight in Europe, although there were proxy wars outside. But for all the fine new words of amity, the state scene has not been settled. the dangers if the Soviets cannot manage their transformation reasonably smoothly are serious, not only because of their still-huge arsenal but because 15, probably many more, new quarreling countries on the map would undermine international order.
The other key issues in Paris, at the edges of the C.S.C.E., are examples of crises that could be expected to proliferate. They are the Persian Gulf and the Uruguay Round trade negotiations, which threaten to reverse the great expansion of prosperity since World War II if they break down.
Marx preached that the capitalist state system was driven to wars by its search for economic privilege and would collapse as a result. It turned out that economic cooperation brought capitalist states to flourish and Communism collapsed, but it takes a state system to provide the base for cooperation.
There is tremendous promise for the world in a Europe that, with American help, has overcome its internecine wars. It won't be fulfilled until the Russians sort out their end of empire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (92%); FINLAND (92%); CANADA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: CSC AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: TREATIES; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WORLD WAR II (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TRENDS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA JIMMY CARTER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



692 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Milken's Morals, and Ours

BYLINE: By Michael Lewis; Michael Lewis is author of "Liar's Poker."

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
The perversity of the public prosecution of Michael Milken was that it ignored what troubled people most. Probably, there is someone out there who turns purple at the mere thought of a man violating a half dozen of the more technical rules in our stock markets (as Mr. Milken did); there is probably someone who believes jaywalkers deserve the death penalty.
But sensible people were far more upset that Mr. Milken had helped to buy and mince America's largest corporations -- while earning himself a billion or so dollars. He seemed to mock the widely cherished notion that the market is sensible and just, and was as annoying as a double-parked Rolls-Royce. 
 Today's sentencing of Mr. Milken -- added to the $600 million fine he has already agreed to pay -- is meant to be a kind of moral resolution. The villain is being punished, once again proving that mocking American capitalism doesn't pay. But there are several reasons why this ending should trouble people who like their morality tales neat.
The first is that, of Mr. Milken's many disruptive deeds, none that truly angered people was illegal. Selling junk bonds to willing investors -- even to savings and loans -- was legal. Handing the proceeds to Ronald Perelman, Nelson ("if you aren't born with it, you have to borrow it") Peltz and Carl Icahn, who wished to dismantle America's largest corporations, was also legal. Even earning $550 million in a year was legal. And make no mistake about it: no more than a few of those dollars can be traced to Mr. Milken's crimes.
Moreover, the people who matter still feel the takeover craze was, on balance, good for the economy. Thus, we are still unclear about the ethics of the important part of Mr. Milken's behavior. Anyone who doubts this must explain why, after the collapse of Mr. Milken's employer, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., nearly every Wall Street firm rushed to hire his former cronies.
Mr. Milken's defenders say that his junk bonds filled a hole caused by the folly of America's leading bankers, and provided money to companies that needed it. The takeovers he funded forced corporate executives to trim fat. Perhaps Mr. Milken and Drexel forced the issue a bit, and arranged a few takeovers that should never have occurred. But so did everyone else on Wall Street (if you really want to see damage to the economy, visit Salomon Brothers, which created a string of disastrous leveraged buyouts).
We have prosecuted the man but ignored his ideas. Sometimes the man embodies the idea well enough to justify such a procedure: Michael Deaver, the former aide and confidant to Ronald Reagan, pretty much captured Washington influence peddling, for example. But Mr. Milken is a poor stand-in for Wall Street Greed.
For a start, he thought what he was doing was right. Unlike most of Wall Street's leading deal makers, he genuinely believed he had a mission to reform the American economy. He lived modestly ("I have one house, one wife, one cat, one car," he once said, truthfully). He didn't gloat like Ivan Boesky or preen in public like Donald Trump. He was revered by his employees and devoted to his family (to the extent that he sacrificed himself to exonerate his brother). In short, if we had to go after a man instead of an idea, we could have found a better specimen.
The moral of the Milken story isn't that greedy people always suffer a comeuppance; you have only to look in the mirror to see that isn't true. The moral is that people who force unwanted change on other people -- particularly those with power -- should always keep a lawyer on hand.
It is our dirty little secret that, even as we congratulate ourselves for the wonders of our economic system, we disapprove of many of its natural outcomes. As a wealthy investment banker friend of mine put it, "There is something wrong with making $550 million in a single year." In the end, Michael Milken mocked not only capitalism but our faith in it, too.
Mr. Milken showed how disruptive a genuinely gifted financier could be. On balance, I think, we'd prefer our bankers a little stupid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ETHICS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); BONDS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); SENTENCING (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (66%); SAVINGS & LOANS (65%); 

PERSON: MILKEN, MICHAEL; LEWIS, MICHAEL MICHAEL MILKEN (93%); CARL ICAHN (70%); RONALD PERELMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1990



693 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Dresden Journal;
First the Allies. Then the Communists. And Now?

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DRESDEN, Germany

 BODY:
Ulrich Aust's love affair with the Royal Palace in his hometown began in the 1960's. That is when he and other students sneaked out into the night to work hurried repairs on the charred and hollow ruin that was left after British and American bombers gutted the city, a jewel of European Baroque, in a hail of fire in the waning months of World War II.
The series of raids, carried out with phosphorus and high-explosive bombs, were ordered mainly to break German morale. But after the war they served successive East German Communist Governments as supposed evidence of the inhumanity of Western capitalism. 
 At the Zwinger, a restored stone ensemble that is the city's premier Rococo monument, a stone inscription denounces the Allied attack.
With the collapse of Communism and the unification of Germany over the last year, the ghosts of such distant events are eclipsed by the shadows of a more recent past.
 
A Second Calamity?
 Many people here say they believe that after the destruction of the city by Allied bombers, 45 years of Communist rule worked a second demolition. And burghers of Dresden like Mr. Aust, who is now building director of the Palace ruin, hope the city will be reborn a second time within their generation.
"This has always been a burning problem for the people of Dresden," he said, leading a visitor through the Zwinger.
"They long terribly for the reconstruction of monuments like the Palace, which was fought by the Communist Party. These things were tests of strength between the people and the Communists, who always argued that they stood for better, more modern values."
Not that this scarred city of 550,000, the capital of Saxony in reunited Germany, is not firmly anchored in the present. Its architecture, if charred and faded, is a twisting, soaring Baroque that was built by the royal house of Saxony in the centuries that it ruled broad areas of Central Europe from the gentle shores of the Elbe.
 
Poised to Invade the East
 But the city voted solidily pro-business and Christian Democratic in recent elections, and the House of Parliament is undergoing restoration to accommodate the new state Legislature. Local hotels are crowded with western German businessmen and Dresden's location, wedged between Poland and Czechoslovakia, buoys its hopes of becoming Germany's staging area for an economic invasion of Eastern Europe.
The Communists allowed reconstruction of a few monuments, like the Zwinger and the famed 19th-century Semper Opera. But others, like the renowned Sophienkirche, a Baroque gem, were razed, and construction of coal-burning power stations like one that is perched 700 yards downwind from the Zwinger has produced emissions that destroy what was restored.
"We hope that in this new era our dreams of reconstruction can be realized," said Harald Marx, director of the Old Masters' Gallery, the receptacle of treasures like Raphael's Sistine Madonna. He was guiding visitors through the tangled construction site that is his gallery, where reconstruction work is expected to be finished by mid-1992.
Across the way at the Royal Palace site, work proceeds to prevent further decay so that the complex can be tranformed ultimately into an ensemble of modern museums. Nearby, the graceful Taschenberg Palace, once a glory of Dresden, now a ruin sprouting trees from its halls, will be reconstructed.
 
Church Dome Stirs Discord
 But the liveliest debate focuses on the Frauenkirche, the Church of Our Lady, which is now just a hollow wreck amid the vacant lots that were once the Neumarkt, or New Market, Dresden's former business center. In their race to put up cheap concrete slab apartments at the city's edge, the Communists left the Neumarkt to rot.
Planners would like to revive it by luring western investors like Siemens, the western German electrical giant that is scooping up chunks of eastern Germany's old Dresden-based Robotron computer company, or the Dresdner Bank, Germany's No. 2 bank, which was born here in the last century.
"This is a unique chance to regain the traditional downtown area and revive it," said Walter Kockeritz, a local architect who heads the drive. "And that chance is bound up with reconstruction of the Frauenkirche."
Planners hope the church's reconstructed dome will somehow be more than just another tourist attraction, and will symbolize German revival after reunification. But it will remain an anti-war memorial, they say, and include sites for conferences and religious meetings. Seizing on this symbolism, politicans like Chancellor Helmut Kohl have used the site for rallies.
 
A Stubborn Dream
 Not everyone agrees. Reconstruction will cost an estimated $100 million, and Marian Gunther, an editor at the local paper, Die Union, said that while people were "100 percent behind the changes" that brought down the East German Government, frustration abounds over rising unemployment and the sluggish flow of business investment from the west.
The leaders of Saxony's Evangelical Protestant church, which owns the Frauenkirche ruin, say that decrepit hospitals, crumbling housing and acrid pollution require more urgent attention than church connstruction.
But others, like Mr. Kockeritz, will not abandon the dream.
"Dresden was the most exquisitely composed city in Germany before the war," he said. "This beauty was lost in the destruction and the poor reconstruction, and where it lingers on, it is intensely endangered. We'd like to set this former harmony as the measure of reconstruction everywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Work is under way at the Royal Palace in Dresden, Germany, to prevent further decay. The complex will eventually house museums. (Thomas Hoepker/Magnum); map of Dresden, Germany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: SACHSEN, GERMANY (92%); 

CITY: DRESDEN, GERMANY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; DRESDEN (GERMANY)

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (77%); POLITICS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (65%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (65%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



694 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Talking Deals;
How Trump Got A Second Chance

BYLINE: By Richard D. Hylton

 BODY:
TALK about the art of the deal.
After weeks of marathon negotiations with lawyers, investment bankers and bondholders' representatives, Donald J. Trump managed to keep control of his giant Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City, despite having missed a $47.3 million interest payment due at midnight last Thursday on the "junk bonds" that financed the candy-colored monolith. 
 How had he persuaded the bondholders to leave him in control? Surely with their first mortgage on the property, the bondholders could have wrested control or forced the casino into an involuntary bankruptcy?
A close look at the details of the settlement shows that the bondholders came away with a deal that is strongly weighted in their favor and that gives Mr. Trump a second chance to make the Taj meet its financial obligations. It is also clear that had it not been for the intervention of Carl C. Icahn, the corporate raider and financier who is the single largest bondholder, Mr. Trump would probably not have gotten that second chance, but would have been forced into a messy bankruptcy battle in which the bondholders had the upper hand.
The settlement gives the bondholders 50 percent of the equity in the Taj Mahal but leaves Mr. Trump with control of the board. Any transactions -- mergers, sales, recapitalizations -- that would substantially change the company are subject to approval by the bondholders' appointees, who will receive three of the seven board seats. In exchange, the interest rate that Mr. Trump pays on the bonds will be reduced to 12 percent, from 14 percent, and two percentage points of that can be paid in new bonds. The maturity on the bonds has been extended two years, to 2000.
Mr. Trump has an opportunity to win back 30 percent of the equity after 10 years if the casino'sperformance comes within 15 percent of cash-flow levels to be approved by the bondholders and if he pays back the $675 million in principal at the original 14 percent rate over the next 10 years. If in any year the casino falls below 85 percent of the goal, Mr. Trump loses control of the board.
"The essence of this deal is that Donald has agreed to deliver or he'll give up control," said Mr. Icahn, who owns more than $150 million of the face value of the bonds. He is believed to have bought most of his interest at less than 40 cents on the dollar.
It is this factor -- control of the board -- that gives the bondholders the edge. If the Taj fails to generate enough cash under Mr. Trump's control, the bondholders take over, and they can reduce the developer's 50 percent stake by issuing more stock. Or they can create an issue of preferred shares for themselves that would reduce the casino's debt burden while effectively siphoning off all generated cash for bondholders. In essence, if the bondholders take control they can effectively eliminate much of the value of Mr. Trump's equity stake, while they keep the casino's future earnings.
The agreement, which is to be structured as a prepackaged bankruptcy settlement, was reached at the 11th hour after all-night talks. Although theyhad not admitted it to Mr. Trump or his executives, the bondholders had decided by late last week that he would not agree to any deal in which he would have to give up more than 50 percent ownership.
"We had several days before where we knew that he wasn't going to do a deal unless it were 50-50, and what we were fighting over was how much equity he would get back," said Wilbur Ross, senior managing director of Rothschild Inc. who represented one of the largest bondholder groups.
Despite meetings past midnight last Thursday, and a 2 A.M. conference call between Mr. Ross, Mr. Icahn and Mr. Trump, questions remained unresolved regarding how much equity the developer would get back if he met the financial goals and what those goals should be.
Mr. Trump wanted to get back more than 80 percent of the equity, and he was arguing for less stringent standards; Mr. Ross and Mr. Icahn were on the other side of the fence. By Friday morning, after the payment had been missed and no settlement reached, the bondholders decided to try one more conference call at 10 A.M. before announcing that they had reached no settlement, making an involuntary bankruptcy filing a near certainty.
"We had resolved as a practical matter that this thing was to be brought to a head on the 16th," said Mr. Ross, who two weeks earlier had flown to Tokyo to gain the support of Japanese bondholders. "We believed that the issues were narrowly defined, and there was no reason for it to last longer, so we wanted it ended on Friday."
It was then that Mr. Icahn began playing his pivotal role.
He joined the conference call of nearly 100 bondholders, at Mr. Ross's request, and made it clear that he supported allowing Mr. Trump to retain 50 percent of the equity and control of the board. With the support of Mr. Icahn, Mr. Ross's group and the Japanese bondholders, who were now actively involved for the first time, it was clear to all those on the conference call that enough bondholders supported the deal to force it on the others. Some time after noon the conference call ended, and Mr. Ross and Mr. Icahn took the final offer to Mr. Trump, who agreed to it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CORPORATE BONDS; CASINOS; HOTELS AND MOTELS BONDS (91%); CASINOS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GAMING (77%); RESORTS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (71%); APPROVALS (70%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; HYLTON, RICHARD D DONALD TRUMP (93%); CARL ICAHN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



695 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Shows Mixed Results After Day of Thin Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended mixed in lackluster pre-holiday trading yesterday, with little news to affect the currency, traders said.
Gold prices rose. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold settled at $378.90 an ounce, up $1.30 from Tuesday. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid of $379.15, up $1.55. 
 David Ethridge, a vice president and currency trader at Merrill Lynch & Company, said most activity in the thin market appeared to be "mopping-up operations" ahead of Thanksgiving.
But he said some long-term investors continued to sell dollars to buy the Japanese yen, in part because of a belief that Japanese interest rates were headed higher while United States rates could drop.
Higher interest rates tend to support a nation's currency by making securities denominated in that currency more valuable.
The dollar rose against the German mark but fell against the yen and the British pound.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell to a closing 127.68 yen, from 128.93 yen Tuesday. Later in London, it rose to 128.90 yen. But in New York, one dollar bought 127.17 yen, down from 128.85 yen late Tuesday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.9680, from $1.9695 late Tuesday. But in New York, one pound cost $1.9670, up from $1.9660 Tuesday.
The mark traded at 1.4815 to the dollar in Europe, up from 1.4760 Tuesday. In New York, one dollar fetched 1.4770 marks, up from 1.4740 marks the day before.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.2472 Swiss francs, up from 1.2450; 4.9800 French francs, up from 4.9760; 1,109 Italian lire, unchanged, and 1.1582 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1593.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $378.25 an ounce, up from $377.75 late Tuesday. In Zurich, gold's closing bid was $378.50, up from $377.50 late Tuesday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell $8.17 to close at $372.13.
Silver prices rose. On the Comex in New York, silver for current delivery settled at $4.125 an ounce, up from $4.11 late Tuesday. In London, silver rose to a late bid of $4.11, up from $4.10 late Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); ZURICH (52%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (95%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); THANKSGIVING (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



696 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Dividend Slashed At Fleet-Norstar

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I., Nov. 21

 BODY:
Fleet-Norstar Financial Group Inc., considered to be one of New England's strongest banking companies slashed its dividend by almost 43 percent. Fleet declared a quarterly dividend of 20 cents a share, down from 35 cents, payable on Jan. 1 to stockholders of record on Dec. 15. Analysts had expected some sort of cut.
Terrence Murray, the company's chairman and chief executive, said Fleet had a 7 percent ratio of capital to assets, compared with the industry average of almost 5 percent. "Retention of capital is the most prudent course of action at this time," he said. The region is in an economic downturn, with slumping real estate values and higher loan defaults eroding the value of bank stocks and the banks' bottom lines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCI FINANCIAL GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLEET/NORSTAR FINANCIAL GROUP INC

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (86%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



697 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Leaders of New Jersey Tax Rebellion Take Aim at Legislature

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Two weeks after New Jersey voters almost unseated Senator Bill Bradley and frightened several Democratic Congressmen in a flush of anti-tax fervor, the leaders of a citizen group that helped nurture that anger are savoring their success and planning their next campaign.
Widely expected to win comfortably, Mr. Bradley was nearly upset by a Republican newcomer, Christine Todd Whitman, who skillfully tapped the voters' anger. Now, the citizens' group, Hands Across New Jersey, believes it can turn that public mistrust of government into a major issue that the candidates for all 120 seats in the State Legislature will have to address in next year's elections. 
 "We were able to channel a political storm this year," said Janet Coates of Ewing Township, who, with her husband, Tom, was among the seven people who formed Hands Across New Jersey to battle Gov. Jim Florio's $2.8 billion program of higher sales and income taxes. "And all legislators who fail to heed the message we were bringing will be blown out next year by a hurricane."
 
Recall Power Sought
 Leaders of the organization, which now has coordinators in all 21 counties and a list of 2,000 volunteers, say they will work with other taxpayer and public-interest groups to try to force repeal of the taxes, even in the face of predictions of widening budget problems. And they plan to demand that candidates for the Legislature embrace proposals to allow the public to place binding questions on the ballot and to recall elected officials.
But there are signs that the anti-tax forces will not have the stage to themselves next year and that organized support for the Governor's tax and school aid programs is on the way.
Urban mayors who met during the State League of Municipalities convention in Atlantic City last week say they intend to begin educating their residents to the property tax relief benefits in the package, and this week leaders of several groups representing the elderly met to announce their support of the Governor.
"I deplore the political bashing of Governor Florio's efforts to improve the welfare of the people of New Jersey," said Peter Shields, founder of the New Jersey Leadership Council on Aging.
 
The Imponderables Cited
 Political experts say it is too soon to tell if the new anti-tax groups will play as important a role in next year's elections as they did this year.
"Whenever the public believes government is not paying attention to its pocketbook, groups such as Hands Across New Jersey tend to rise up in anger," said Richard Roper, director of the Council on New Jersey Affairs at Princeton University.
But, he added, in the months ahead "all kinds of things can happen, including a war in the Middle East, that will alter the political terrain here in New Jersey and in every other state."
"We'll just have to wait and see how things play out," he said.
A black organization rebuked Hands Across New Jersey for opposing a proposal on the Nov. 6 ballot that would have provided $135 million in loans and grants for affordable housing programs. The measure lost by 66,000 votes, while the voters approved two gambling proposals -- to allow horse racing on Sundays and to permit Atlantic City casinos to take bets on horse races.
The chairman of the New Jersey Black Issues Convention, Councilman Donald Tucker of Newark, called the defeat of the housing proposal a "misguided campaign" that helped to deny the homeless and minority residents needed housing assistance.
Leaders of Hands Across New Jersey said they were opposed to the financing mechanism in the housing plan because it could have led to higher property taxes. They said they would support a bill recently introduced in the Legislature to salvage the housing program.
 
Better Organization Planned
 John Budzash, a letter carrier from Howell Township, became the driving force behind the creation of Hands Across New Jersey when he called into a radio program that was encouraging people to air their feelings about Governor Florio's tax plan. Mr. Budzash got in touch with Pat Ralston, a title searcher from Belmar, who also had called the station.
Ms. Ralston, who said the group raised and spent about $20,000 this year, chiefly on telephone bills, said discussions were under way to form a political action committee to undertake a more sophisticated fund-raising effort and to devise more effective campaign techniques next year.
"Up to now we've received everything from 25-cent postage stamps to donations in all amounts up to $100," she said.
With Democrats controlling both houses of the Legislature, Republican Party leaders like Assemblyman Robert D. Franks of New Providence, the state chairman, say they stand to benefit next year from the campaigns by the new grass-roots organization and other special-interest groups that have been in the field for years.
 
Republicans Cautioned
 But leaders of the taxpayer groups say the Republicans will be making a mistake if they take their support for granted, and at least one Republican lawmaker believes it would be foolish to count the votes of angry taxpayers too soon.
"There is a lot of negative feeling out there, but that doesn't mean they want to anoint us," said Senator William L. Gormley of Margate.
"Republicans think they have backers now, but they're wrong," Mr. Budzash said. "What we want is accountability by all of our elected officials."
For this reason, Hands Across New Jersey and the United Taxpayers of New Jersey, formed in 1977 to protest enactment of the state income tax, are supporting a legislative agenda that calls for laws granting voters the right to place binding public questions on the ballot and the right to recall elected officials, including the governor and members of the Legislature.
They also want limits on terms of office for the Legislature, and this month a new organization that calls itself Revolt announced that it had been formed to push for such limits. Tom Blomquist of Brick Township, a retired captain in the Coast Guard and state coordinator of the new group, said it would join with the two taxpayer organizations and the New Jersey Conservative Caucus to insure that the issue plays an important role in next year's election.
 
Bill Seeks Legislature Limits
 The Assembly minority leader, Chuck Haytaian, Republican of Independence Township and one of the strongest critics of the Governor's new tax and school-aid plans, became the first lawmaker to endorse limits on terms in the Legislature. He introduced a bill on Monday to limit a State Assembly member to six consecutive two-year terms and a state senator to four consecutive terms. However, Mr. Haytaian had no co-sponsors and could not predict whether the bill wouild attract much support among his colleagues.
Samuel Perelli, president of the United Taxpayers of New Jersey, said: "We've been fighting for a voter initiative package for 15 years, and we needed a giant sledgehammer in the past to get people's attention. But now it is a demand that the lawmakers won't be able to ignore."
Mr. Perelli recalled that he thought an initiative and referendum law would pass in 1985, when it had the support of Gov. Thomas H. Kean and was part of the Republican Party platform. But he said some lawmakers who pledged their support backed down when the bill came up for a vote.
"They lied," he said,"but this time we're not taking anything for granted."
 
Signature Campaign Continues
 Mrs. Coates said that Hands Across New Jersey had collected 800,000 signatures supporting repeal of the Florio tax package and was collecting more.
Mr. Budzash said the organization was sticking to its demand for repeal, even in the face of reports by State Treasurer Douglas C. Berman and others in the Legislature that the state faced a $600 million revenue shortfall in this fiscal year and $800 million in fiscal 1992.
"It just shows that enacting new taxes doesn't help the economy," Mr. Budzash said. "It hurts it."
Hands Across New Jersey attracted the support of the Coalition of New Jersey Sportsmen, who were angered by Mr. Florio's success in enacting a law banning the sale or possession of semi-automatic rifles, and the tax group also received some advice on campaign strategy from Richard J. Feldman, a former lobbyist for the National Rifle Association. However, Mrs. Coates said the relationship of her organization with other groups and individuals "is one of mutual respect, but we design our own campaigns."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: HANDS ACROSS NEW JERSEY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); BALLOTS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); AGING (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



698 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Control Data Deal With CSK of Japan

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BLOOMINGTON, Minn., Nov. 21

 BODY:
The Control Data Corporation will sell Micrognosis, which devises computer systems for the financial industry, to the CSK Corporation, Japan's largest independent computer services company, the companies said. No terms were disclosed.
Micrognosis, based in Danbury, Conn., supplies trading-room systems for the financial services industry, serving 250 banks, insurance companies, securities firms and corporations from 25 offices in 15 countries. It had revenues of about $100 million last year. The company's estimated 430 employees, most of whom work in Danbury, New York and London, will be retained, Control Data said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9719 (TSE) (93%); ARB (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (96%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (93%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: CERIDIAN CORP (96%); SCSK CORP (93%); ARBITRON INC (93%); COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (91%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROGNOSIS (CO); CSK CORP; CONTROL DATA CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



699 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Rise 72 Cents On a Decline in Supplies

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Oil prices rose moderately yesterday, as the futures market turned bullish over a drop in the crude supply and France's prediction that the United Nations Security Council will authorize military action against Iraq.
Crude oil moved up 72 cents, to $29.63 a barrel, for January delivery contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange, erasing much of Tuesday's decline of $1.81 a barrel. 
 Volume was about as light as it has been for any session since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, as traders prepared to take off for the Thanksgiving holiday. The oil market reopens Friday, but some traders planned to take a four-day weekend.
"I suppose we're having one of the dullest days we've had in several weeks around here," said Bob Baker, an oil analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.
 
 Possibility of the Unexpected
 Traders were generally unwilling to enter into oil contracts because of the possibility of unexpected developments in the Persian Gulf, where President Bush will spend the holiday with United States troops.
"In the back of people's minds, they're thinking anything could happen with him over there," said Peter Beutel, an analyst with Pegasus Econometric Group Inc. in Hoboken, N.J.
Oil opened higher in response to an American Petroleum Institute report issued the night before that showed stocks of crude oil and refined products dropped in the previous week.
Crude then hit its high for the day of $30.20 a barrel after President Francois Mitterrand of France said he had told President Bush that a United Nations resolution authorizing force against Iraq was needed. The French leader said such a resolution would likely be passed within three weeks.
 
 Perceptions of the Soviets
 Adding to the market's bullish mood were perceptions that the United States and the Soviet Union had become closer in their views on the gulf crisis.
"The Soviets, who were talking about being against military intervention earlier in the week, have kind of backpedaled," said Brian Tagler, a broker with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. "Each day, we find they agree more and more with President Bush."
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union yesterday urged the Security Council to meet immediately on the gulf crisis.
As oil moved ahead, refined petroleum products also rose.
Unleaded gasoline was up 1.48 cents, to 78.95 cents a gallon on December contracts, with later contract months moving higher as well. Home heating oil was higher for all delivery months, with the December contract up 0.79 cent, at 85.24 cents a gallon.
Mr. Baker said heating oil's relatively weaker performance reflected a belief among traders that no supply problems seem likely this winter.

GRAPHIC: Chart: The price for a barrel of crude oil for January delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange. (source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); FRANCE (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; SAUDI ARABIA; KUWAIT; FRANCE

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES TRADING PRICE INCREASES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); FUTURES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); GASOLINE (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); THANKSGIVING (70%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



700 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN EUROPE;
34 LEADERS ADOPT PACT PROCLAIMING A UNITED EUROPE

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 21

 BODY:
The leaders of 34 European and North American states, great and small, rich and not so rich, today proclaimed the end of the "era of confrontation and division" that followed World War II.
In a Charter of Paris for a New Europe, a kind of no-fault peace treaty marking the final denouement of the global conflict that began half a century ago, the 34 pledged a "steadfast commitment to democracy based on human rights and fundamental freedoms, prosperity through economic liberty and social justice, and equal security for all countries." 
 "Full respect for these precepts is the bedrock on which we will seek to construct the new Europe," the charter promises, and it contains none of the escape clauses that have rendered many such pledges moot in the past. [Excerpts, page A16.]
 
'Cold War Is Over'
 "The cold war is over," said President Bush, who had refrained until today from making such a statement. "In signing the Charter of Paris we have closed a chapter of history."
The drama of the words lay in the knowledge that they would have been inconceivable as a unifying formula in the Europe of two years or two hundred years ago, when the Continent was cut by ideology, treaty or religion into hostile blocs. The drama of the signing ceremony lay in the fact that its main actors were recently enemies, and that some of the supporting players, such as President Vaclav Havel of Czechoslovakia, spent time in prison not long ago for campaigning for the rights now guaranteed.
The charter's only concrete act is to set up a secretariat, called the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. Its headquarters will be in Prague, with a conflict-resolution center in Vienna and an office in Warsaw to monitor elections. In addition, officials of the conference are to meet regularly, with foreign ministers gathering once a year and the leaders every two years.
President Francois Mitterrand of France closed the three-day meeting of the conference by declaring that the 34 signers, including the Vatican and 33 countries ranging from the United States and the Soviet Union to tiny San Marino and Liechtenstein, "share a common vision of the world and a common set of values."
The French President said that "the old order and the false certainties that sustained it have collapsed." All institutions "must be rethought," he said, even the European Community.
 
'Perpetual Political Discussion'
 Many Europeans have hoped that the Conference might develop into the long-sought pan-European security system. But the group has no enforcement mechanisms; it gives equal weight to the voices of Germany and Malta; and it is not clear that it can ever become more than "perpetual political discussion," as Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain once termed it.
With political disintegration threatening the Soviet Union and ethnic divisions re-emerging all over Eastern Europe, there was little euphoria here this week. And there was widespread apprehension that democracy, in the words of the Finnish diplomat Max Jakobson, "is unlikely to develop in the midst of the economic catastrophe" that now faces the old Soviet empire.
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union underscored the threat of famine this winter, handing Western officials an urgent grocery list that Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada said included pork, beef, flour, butter, powdered milk and peanut oil.
The German Foreign Minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, said that the European Community was considering food aid worth $1 billion, and many leaders stressed the need to help the Soviet leader survive the crisis brought on by food shortages and by mounting regional discontent with rule by Moscow.
 
Gulf Discussed Offstage
 Although much offstage diplomacy focused on the crisis in the Persian Gulf, where Iraqi troops have now occupied Kuwait for almost four months, the summit conference itself never took up the topic. The leaders made no declaration about it and the Soviet Union, despite intensive American efforts, failed to pledge support for a new United Nations resolution authorizing the use of force against Iraq.
Before heading for Saudi Arabia, where he will spend Thanksgiving visiting the American forces arrayed against President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, President Bush commented, "I leave Paris feeling that we are still together as countries who want to see this situation reversed and want to see" Iraqi forces get out of Kuwait without conditions, concessions or negotiations.
Later in the day, Mr. Gorbachev said the Security Council should meet without delay to consider the Gulf problem. "We can't just leave things this way without giving them closer analysis," he said, and he called for "resolute and firm" behavior but said nothing about a new Security Council resolution authorizing the use of force against Iraq.
At a news conference tonight, Mr. Mitterrand predicted that a resolution authorizing force would be adopted within the next three weeks, and said France, which has a permanent seat on the Security Council, would back it. But he also said he had told Mr. Bush that such a resolution would not give the United States or anyone else the "automatic" right to attack.
 
The Signing Ceremony
 As the host, Mr. Mitterrand was the first leader to sign the concluding document, which was bound in red leather. Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany followed, and then came Mr. Bush. Mr. Gorbachev was one of the last to affix his signature at the matter-of-fact, 15-minute ceremony held in the Kleber International Conference Center just off the Champs Elysees.
Human rights, not security, turned out to be the main theme here.
Opening the conference on Monday, Mr. Mitterrand referred to it as an "anti-Congress of Vienna." The celebrated meeting in 1815, dominated by Metternich of Austria, a prince, and Talleyrand of France, a prince and a bishop, "ignored the people and their aspirations," Mr. Mitterrand said, but this meeting grew directly out of the commitment to human rights undertaken in Helsinki in 1975 and the stunning revolutions in Eastern Europe in 1989.
"Democratic government is based on the will of the people, expressed regularly through free and fair elections," says the document signed today by officials of every country in Europe except Albania, plus the United States and Canada. "Democracy is the best safeguard of freedom of expression, tolerance of all groups of society and equal opportunity for each person."
 
Participation Broadened
 Michael Mandelbaum, a Europe specialist at the Council on Foreign Relations, noted last week that "peace conferences of the past and summit meetings of the Cold War period involved exclusively the great powers."
"This forum signifies the hope and expectation that Europe has reached the end of the period in which the two great nuclear powers decided its fate," he said. "This summit meeting expresses the hope and expectation that post-cold-war Europe will be a much more plural political order than it has been, not only in the recent past but, in some senses, than it has ever been before."
Before the conference even began, the 16 members of NATO and the 6 remaining members of the Warsaw Pact signed one of the most comprehensive arms-reduction treaties in history, cutting by tens of thousands the permissible number of conventional weapons between the Urals and the Atlantic. At the same time, they also signed a mutual agreement of non-aggression.
 
Debut for United Germany
 It was, of course, the first great international conference for the newly unified German nation, and the fact that there was one spokesman for Germany, not two, was another reminder of the swift pace of recent change. There was no "German question" on the agenda or in most delegates' minds.
"They're all used to it by now," said Mr. Kohl, expressing astonishment that the rest of Europe had accepted the new Germany so readily. "It's almost forgotten that the original purpose of this meeting was to give permission for our unification."
But he warned that his country should not use all the power its new size and strength might give it. He told reporters, "We Germans played big shots for 50 years. Now we should be little shots for 50 years."
And he urged the nations gathered here not to ignore the repeated appeals of Eastern European leaders for aid from the wealthy Western states.
"There must now be no borders which perpetuate the prosperity divide," Mr. Kohl declared. "The ideological gulfs that have been overcome must not be torn open again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A picture of Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany was seen on television screens as he spoke at a news conference after the security meeting. With him was Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher. (Reuters); President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union applauding during the afternoon session yesterday of the security conference in Paris. (Associated Press) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); HOLY SEE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MALTA (79%); SAN MARINO (58%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); SAN MARINO, SAN MARINO (53%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHARTER OF PARIS FOR A NEW EUROPE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); ELECTION MONITORING (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



701 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Filing by Laventhol

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
Attributing its problems to a litigious society, changes in the tax law, a soft economy and negative publicity, Laventhol & Horwath, once the nation's seventh-largest accounting firm, filed for protection from creditors yesterday in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Chapter 11 filing is believed to be the largest by a professional-services firm. At its peak, the Philadelphia-based Laventhol had 318 partners in 52 offices and earned $350 million in annual revenues. 
 The firm was larger than Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley, Myerson & Casey, a law firm whose 1987 collapse spawned several best-selling books and remains the subject of much litigation.
 
 $6.9 Million Shortfall
 According to Laventhol's court papers, the accounting firm had $6.9 million more in liabilities than assets as of Oct. 13, the date of its last balance sheet, when it recorded $146.4 million in assets and $153.3 million in liabilities.
But an attorney for Laventhol, Michael J. Crames, noted yesterday that the firm's debts were probably understated in light of the more than 100 lawsuits pending against Laventhol before the filing. The suits, accusing Laventhol of poor work, seek nearly $2 billion in damages, representing "a potential exposure in the tens of millions of dollars," the filing said.
Laventhol was the auditor for P.T.L., the discredited television ministry founded by Jim Bakker, and it is defending its work in a multimillion-dollar lawsuit in Charlotte, N.C.
 
 Other Lawsuits May Be Coming
 On top of that, Laventhol expects to be sued by some of its landlords for breaking its leases, as well as by former clients, who are expected to contend that the firm mishandled their accounts. "The big unknown is the litigation," said Mr. Crames, a senior partner with Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler in New York. "How much it will be, nobody knows today."
Bankruptcy experts said yesterday that many of Laventhol's assets could turn out to be of dubious value, which would worsen the $6.9 million shortfall. Laventhol's biggest asset is $81 million in receivables, money owed but not yet collected from clients for work it has performed.
But clients are notorious for resisting payment in such situations, and that could be especially true if they can successfully argue that the disruption forced them to hire new accountants to handle their forthcoming audits for the end of the year, and that the new auditors had to start from scratch.
"If they do not stay in business, then there'll be a real problem collecting," said Francis Musselman, the New York lawyer who is the Chapter 11 trustee for Finley, Kumble. He said he expected ultimately to collect about 40 percent of the $107 million in receivables that the law firm was owed when it filed for bankruptcy.
Like Finley, Kumble, Laventhol only intends to operate under Chapter 11 protection long enough to supervise an orderly collection of its assets. To that end, the firm has reached an agreement with many of its former partners that entitles them to 5 percent of any billed amount and 10 percent of any unbilled amount they collect on Laventhol's behalf.
 
 3,273 People Out of Work
 Besides the 3,273 Laventhol employees who lost their jobs this week, the bankruptcy leaves many creditors. The largest secured creditors were the banks that advanced Laventhol an $80 million loan between busy seasons last year. The loan was refinanced in March, leaving the Fidelity Bank in Philadelphia owed $59.2 milion and the Chase Manhattan Bank owed $24.5 million.
The largest unsecured creditors, who range from landlords to retired partners, are the State Street Bank and Trust Company in Boston, which is owed $3.7 million; Tishman Midwest, the firm's landlord in Chicago, which is owed $549,150, as well as Laventhol's New York landlord, believed to be Fisher Brothers, which is owed $487,458. Smaller unsecured creditors include Deloitte & Touche, another accounting firm, and the Federal Express Corporation, the overnight package-delivery service.
 
 Filing Cites Other Factors
 In its filing, Laventhol's chief executive, Robert N. Levine, cited many external factors for the firm's financial woes, including changes in the Federal tax law that made accounting a more seasonal business than it once was and investors' quickness to sue accounting firms whenever businesses fail.
"From Laventhol & Horwath's perspective, its inclusion in such actions was more a result of the perception of it being a deep pocket than the result of deficiencies in the satifaction of its professional responsibilites," Mr. Levine said in the filing.
 
 Competitors Not Interested
 It was those looming legal risks that caused competitors to want to distance themselves from Laventhol's problems. The firm also made the unusual acknowledgement in the filing that it had talked with numerous competitors -- including Price Waterhouse, Deloitte & Touche, Coopers & Lybrand and Arthur Andersen -- in the last 10 months in hopes of striking a deal that would solve its debt problems. But Laventhol was not successful.
"Given the economic realities of today's business climate, it seems clear that no other accounting firm can be persuaded to merge with or acquire Laventhol & Horwath," Mr. Levine said in the filing. He added that morale had declined because of "continued negative publicity in the national press."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: KAYE SCHOLER LLP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LAVENTHOL & HORWATH; PTL (TELEVISION MINISTRY)

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); DAMAGES (71%); BESTSELLERS (55%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH; BAKKER, JIM

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



702 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: THE MILKEN SENTENCE;
The Vigil in Foley Square for the Magic Number

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
It took 27 minutes for the judge to finally speak the magic number -- and seconds for Michael R. Milken to absorb the shock.
Throughout a morning of mounting drama in Room 318 at the Federal Court House at Foley Square, probably no one had an inkling there would be the electrifying theater that resulted, for probably no one imagined a magic number as high as 10 years. All that many in the audience could do was squirm and gasp. 
 When United States District Judge Kimba M. Wood gave her pronouncement -- 10 years in prison, 3 years probation -- she ended the long, tortured case against what has been viewed as the biggest scalp in the Wall Street investigations.
She also ended a long morning that began shortly after dawn as members of the press and onlookers blanketed the Court House steps, hoping for pictures and glimpses of the financial wizard, maybe the last for a while.
 
 'Hey, Junk Bond Man'
 Wearing a gray suit, the 44-year-old Mr. Milken and his wife, Lori, arrived in a Lincoln Town Car at 9:30. He stepped out first, turned and waited for his wife, then gave her his hand. He strode up the steps looking straight ahead, never heeding the repeated cries of, "Hey, junk bond man" and "Yo, Michael, baby. Look this way."
Up in the squarish courtroom, a packed house of nearly 200 people listened patiently to an hourlong plea by Arthur L. Liman, Mr. Milken's attorney. In large part, it was a reading of letters from people touched by Mr. Milken. There was one from a new employee who was so afraid of work she thought of jumping off a chair and breaking her legs so she could stay home. But Mr. Milken soothed her.
Mr. Liman mentioned the $360 million Mr. Milken had given away. He mentioned he had volunteered to be a math teacher. And he confessed that he wasn't a psychiatrist and, "I can't offer an explanation for how Michael slipped."
All Mr. Milken wanted to be remembered for, Mr. Liman said, was that he "made a difference to the children in the inner city."
Jess Fardella, an assistant United States attorney, took just 10 minutes to stress the prosecution's belief that Mr. Milken did not resemble anything like an angel and that his crimes were worthy of heavy-duty punishment.
 
 Indication of a Surprise
 It was during the 27 minutes of prefatory remarks by Judge Wood that one got the impression that a surprise was in the offing. She emphasized that she did not buy the argument that Mr. Milken had committed "subtle" and "technical" crimes. She said one had to wonder whether he calculatedly chose to commit crimes that would be hard to detect. She underscored the fact that Mr. Milken had not yet cooperated with the Government in its inquiries, something that could win a more lenient term.
Mr. Milken had sat as a silent enigma throughout an eight-day special hearing preceding the sentencing. He sobbed audibly during part of Mr. Liman's plea yesterday, but spoke only a few choked-up words of apology before the sentence was announced. He stood stoical, listening to the sentence, though there was no escaping the feeling that here was a beaten man.
After the sentence was announced, the spectators were divided in their impressions. "Brutal," exclaimed one grizzled man. "That's a long time to go up the river."
"I don't know why one man should take all the heat of the battle," a middle-aged woman said. "What about the politicians taking bribes? How about them letting kids buy houses in New Jersey for 10 percent down. It used to be 25 or 30 percent. Why just stick it to this man?"
 
 A Decade of Greed
 But there were people hoping for a verdict condemning a decade of greed. A young woman wearing a ponytail insisted that "even 28 years would not have been enough."
Rebecca Gessler brought a curious perspective to the sentencing. She was covering the event for her reporting class at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism. Before enrolling at Columbia, however, she had worked for a firm that had been hired to perform economics research for Mr. Milken's attorneys. From January through August, she and colleagues inspected every transaction that Mr. Milken's department executed, searching for foul play. She said the work was absolutely no fun.
"When I was working there, my opinion was that what he did wasn't as bad as the prosecutors made it out to be," Ms. Gessler said. "But now that I've been away from it, I feel a little different. I was shocked by the sentence. But I feel the crimes seem to warrant a long sentence."
Martin Klein, a lawyer and longtime friend of Mr. Milken, was indignant and quick to share his views. "Obviously, it's a miscarriage of justice," he said. "I think the judge may have been reacting to the hundreds of people here and is making Michael a scapegoat for the excesses of the 1980's."
"He's a good person and a strong person, and he will survive," Mr. Klein went on. "Unfortunately, the country will be deprived of his talents for a long time."
 
 Betting on the Sentence
 Many gambling pools were formed around the magic number. One young woman felt miserable that she had put her money on five years. Only her boss had picked 10, she said, "and we all thought she did that because she was ignorant."
As the lunch hour neared, hundreds of people waited outside to witness Mr. Milken's departure. An hour ticked by without anyone more newsworthy appearing than a troop of third graders who had dropped by to see a swearing-in ceremony.
Then someone came up with a reasonable answer. Mr. Milken had abruptly wised up and was upstairs finally spilling all to the Government. All over Wall Street, hundreds of people were being fingered.
Among those impatiently listening to such theories was Enid Adler, a lawyer from Philadelphia who said she was engaged in a class-action suit against Mr. Milken. She clasped a small Nikon. "After poring through thousands and thousands of documents, I think I'm entitled to a photo," she said.
But in the end, Ms. Adler and the throng were disappointed. Mr. Milken had ducked out the back.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Milken and his wife, Lori, embracing at center, were accompanied by their personal security guards and United States marshals as they arrived yesterday at the Federal Court House at Foley Square to hear Judge Kimba M. Wood pronounce sentence on Mr. Milken. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) BONDS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (84%); LAWYERS (78%); PROBATION (78%); JUDGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); CHILDREN (70%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (69%); CITY LIFE (66%); BONE FRACTURES (66%); 

PERSON: MILKEN, MICHAEL R; WOOD, KIMBA M (JUDGE); KLEINFIELD, N R MICHAEL MILKEN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



703 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: THE MILKEN SENTENCE;
The Breakdown of 'Junk'

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Michael R. Milken was sentenced to 10 years in prison not for his role in a "decade of greed," but for crimes that were aimed at enriching himself and his clients, Federal Judge Kimba M. Wood said yesterday.
 But Mr. Milken's legacy nonetheless will be his role in the 1980's, and much of the vilification he is now receiving stems from worries that the financial excesses of the decade will lead to disaster in the 1990's. 
 The "junk bond" revolution begun by Mr. Milken and his colleagues at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. helped make it possible for many companies and entrepreneurs to get money to start and expand a wide range of enterprises. Companies including MCI Communications, now the second-largest long-distance telephone company, and Turner Broadcasting might never have grown without Mr. Milken's help.
But that revolution left many companies deeply in debt; some have collapsed and more face that danger as a recession unfolds. Fear of those consequences has intensified the criticism of Mr. Milken and may have contributed to the harshness of the sentence.
At his peak, Mr. Milken had the power to allow corporate raiders to make multibillion-dollar acquisitions, even if they had relatively few assets to begin with.
 
Winners and Losers
 Nelson Peltz and Peter May, for example, made hundreds of millions of dollars from a small start by buying two can-making companies, American Can and National Can, with Drexel money and later selling them. Others, like William Farley, stayed too long at the party. Mr. Farley's Drexel-financed effort to acquire West Point-Pepperell, a big textile maker, left him financially pressed and in danger of losing control of the other company he bought with Drexel money, the underwear maker Fruit of the Loom.
For the country, it is the added debt burden of corporate America that figures largest in evaluating Mr. Milken's long-term impact. Interest payments eat up more than a quarter of cash flow of the average American company, a record percentage and one sure to rise as the economic downturn depresses revenues. Some of the more dire economic forecasts are based on the prediction that the high debt burden will lead to a wave of bankruptcies, deepening and prolonging the recession that probably has already begun.
Mr. Milken was not the sole architect of heavy corporate borrowing, but he was both the evangelist and the innovator behind the rapid increase. By the mid-1980's, when junk bonds began to be used for hostile takeovers, corporate executives realized that a company with unused borrowing power was in jeopardy. Where once that borrowing power was seen as providing security for a rainy day, now it was seen as itself being a threat. A raider could effectively use that borrowing power as collateral for loans to buy the company's stock and throw the executives out of work.
"Milken is a symbol of the 1980's," said Samuel Hayes, an investment banking professor at the Harvard Business School. "He created something in the junk bond, and built it into a machine that was extraordinarily powerful. In retrospect, it now appears that some of the momentum behind that machine was due to illegal actions."
When Mr. Milken first entered the securities business, in the 1970's, junk bonds were relegated to an obscure part of the financial community. Known as "fallen angels," most of these securities were bonds issued by companies that once had good credit standing, but whose credit had deteriorated. Many investors automatically sold bonds that ran into such problems, driving them down to prices that Mr. Milken rightly argued more than offset the increased risk. He developed a following by buying and trading such bonds.
The business grew into underwriting and selling junk bonds for companies that did not qualify as investment-grade issuers. Buyers of the bonds generally prospered, more and more money became available for such investments, and credit standards started to deteriorate. A study by Barrie A. Wigmore, a limited partner of Goldman, Sachs & Company, found the quality of junk bonds issued in the early 1980's was vastly superior to those issued later.
Not surprisingly, it is the later bonds that have most often defaulted, and those who bought such bonds in recent years generally have suffered significant losses in the collapse of the junk bond market, while bonds issued earlier have generally provided profits for buyers.
Drexel's Coterie of Clients
Drexel and Mr. Milken developed a coterie of clients, many of whom bought each other's bonds. That was especially true of the financial institutions that were involved, among them the First Executive Corporation, a life insurance company, and the Columbia Savings and Loan Association, both based in Southern California. Many of those institutions are now having severe financial difficulties.
For a period, Drexel was the only firm that could raise huge quantities of cash for certain types of hostile takeovers, notably those where the would-be buyer did not have much in the way of assets before the raid began. Some companies paid raiders to go away -- a practice known as greenmail. They viewed them as little more than Drexel creations and got Drexel to promise not to finance other raiders going after them.
In large part to find a way to compete with Drexel, many investment banks turned to bridge loans, in which they used their own money to help finance takeovers. Some of those loans went bad, producing huge losses for the firms.
Just how, or when, crime came into the Drexel picture is unclear -- and may remain so. Stock parking, in which ownership is disguised to circumvent regulations, seems to have been fairly common. Mr. Milken admitted stock manipulation in connection with a botched takeover attempt by Golden Nugget, and Drexel confessed to stock manipulation that was far more serious, by Wall Street ethical standards, because the crime seemed aimed at damaging a Drexel investment banking client by forcing the client to agree to more generous terms in a pending financing.
The accusations against Mr. Milken came from only a few sources, of which the most important was Ivan F. Boesky, the takeover stock speculator who turned in Mr. Milken in an effort to get lenient treatment after his own insider trading was uncovered. The other sources included tapes of conversations involving Drexel and a money management firm, Princeton Newport Partners, now defunct, and Drexel's own records, which led to two charges of insider trading that were dropped in the plea agreement with Mr. Milken.
 
 Narrowly Focused Charges
 The charges thus took into account a small portion of Mr. Milken's activities. The public is unlikely to learn soon if the narrow focus indicates that crimes at Drexel were extraordinary events or only that there were a limited number of informers. Having failed to provide significant cooperation to prosecutors before he was sentenced, Mr. Milken is unlikely to offer to turn in others now, although Judge Wood said she might reduce his sentence if he did so.
The financial world now is a far different place from the one that Mr. Milken dominated only a few years ago. Fear has replaced greed as the dominant Wall Street emotion, and lenders are scared of risk. Companies that could borrow many millions a few years ago now cannot get a dime. That type of reaction is inevitable in a credit cycle, and probably would have taken place even if Mr. Milken had never traded a bond.
But it is arguable that the credit cycle went on longer, and rose to greater heights, than it would have without him, and that the downturn in the cycle will therefore be all the more painful, leading to a severe recession. If that dire forecast turns out to be true, public scorn for Mr. Milken, and other financiers, could be just starting to grow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (53%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (53%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INC (53%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM OPERATING LTD (53%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS SENTENCING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); PRISONS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ETHICS (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); JUDGES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); TAKEOVERS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); CASH FLOW (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); METAL CAN MFG (64%); FABRIC MILLS (64%); TEXTILE MFG (63%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; MILKEN, MICHAEL R MICHAEL MILKEN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



704 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2286 words

HEADLINE: THE MILKEN SENTENCE;
Excerpts From Judge Wood's Explanation of the Milken Sentencing

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from comments by Judge Kimba M. Wood yesterday about her sentencing of Michael R. Milken in Federal District Court in Manhattan:
 Because of the extraordinary interest that has been expressed in this case and the fact that many letters to the court reflect misconceptions about what it is that Michael Milken is being punished for, I believe that I should briefly attempt to dispel those misconceptions, many of which were alluded to by Mr. Liman. 
 The letters reflect a perception that we as a society must find those responsible for the alleged abuses of the 1980's, economic harm caused savings and loan associations, takeover targets and those allegedly injured by the issuance of junk bonds as well as by insider trading and other alleged abuses, and punish these criminals in proportion to the losses believed to have been suffered. These writers ask for a verdict on a decade of greed.
While I sympathize with the anxiety expressed in these letters, the suppositions upon which these views are based cannot enter into sentencing defendant on the six counts of wrongdoing to which he plead guilty. Our system of justice protects everyone from being sentenced on supposition and it is this court's responsibility to insure that defendant receives that same protection here.
It is important to note as well that although many of those who wrote to the court believe that defendant should be treated harshly because they believe that he is the one responsible for the massive job losses and the financial failure of savings and loan associations, the Government did not charge him with responsibility here for those losses. For the Government to prove such charges would have required the Government to try to isolate the effect of defendant's actions from all of the other forces acting in the marketplace.
For similar reasons the court cannot take into account the claims of those who urge leniency for defendant because he allegedly created jobs and business opportunities or drew capital to its most productive uses. Determinations such as these would require information not before the court and would, for example, require the court to speculate on how defendant's clients would have invested their money absent his advice, and what effect those actions would have on job creation or loss, business opportunities and productivity.
I note that these letters also reflect a legitimate public concern that everyone, no matter how rich or powerful, obey the law as alluded to by Mr. Fardella, and that our financial markets in which so many people who are not rich invest their savings be free of secret manipulation. This is a concern fairly to be considered by the court.
 
Looking at Milken's Conduct
 I will turn now to the conduct for which defendant is being sentenced.
You are being sentenced for six counts of criminal activity spanning approximately three years in participation with several other people involving several different transactions that violated securities laws, tax laws and other laws.
You have attempted to mitigate these crimes by claiming they represented no more than overzealous service to your clients, that they involved mere technicalities and that they did not represent the core of how you did business.
I will speak to these points briefly before moving to the factors influencing sentencing.
To the extent that your crimes benefited your clients, that is, of course, no excuse for violating the law. In addition, there is no escaping the fact that your crimes also benefited you, not necessarily by lining your pockets directly and immediately, but by increasing your clients loyalty to you, hence, increasing your edge over competitors and increasing the likelihood that your clients would pay for your services in the future.
It has also been argued that your violations were technical ones to be distinguished from accumulating profits through insider trading and that your conduct is not really criminal or that it is only barely criminal.
It was suggested that if you were truly disposed to criminal conduct, you could have made much more money by committing more blatant crimes such as repeatedly misusing insider information.
 
Pattern of Skirting the Law
 These arguments fail to take into account the fact that you may have committed only subtle crimes not because you were not disposed to any criminal behavior but because you were willing to commit only crimes that were unlikely to be detected.
We see often in this court individuals who would be unwilling to rob a bank, but who readily cash Social Security checks that are not theirs when checks come to them in the mail because they are not likely to be caught doing so.
Your crimes show a pattern of skirting the law, stepping just over to the wrong side of the law in an apparent effort to get some of the benefits from violating the law without running a substantial risk of being caught.
In this regard, your post-Nov. 14, 1986, comments to other employees about subpoenas are of the same character as the six admitted offenses. You did not order employees to destroy or remove documents, but you communicated the advisability of their doing so in subtle terms that preserved some deniability on your part.
Your attorneys also argue that most of your business was conducted lawfully and that you would have prospered even absent the unlawful practices you admitted.
The evidence before the court on this point is sparse and equivocal. I do not know, for example, whether some of your biggest clients would have made their funds available to you repeatedly without the benefits fund managers personally received from Drexel. Statements to the contrary made by fund managers at the Fatico hearing were unpersuasive, given their self-serving nature.
There may some day be enough information for another entity, be it a court, or, as Mr. Liman suggested, a historian, to judge whether most of your business was conducted lawfully, but I cannot make that judgment today either way.
 
The Need for Deterrence
 Let me turn then to the purposes of sentencing and their application here. As was pointed out, purposes are generally thought to be individual deterrence, general deterrence, punishment or just deserts, retribution and rehabilitation.
Taking them one by one, deterring you as an individual from breaking the law again has already been furthered in part by your being barred from ever again working in the securities industry, by your $200 million fine, by the $400 million restitution fund that you have funded and by the fact that you face numerous civil lawsuits that could result in your paying even more than the $400 million that you have already paid to the restitution fund.
I am sensitive to the view that you and your family have already been punished by the sanctions I have just mentioned and by the emotional stress of living with the uncertainty of your status and your sentence since the prosecution began.
I have given considerable thought to whether a sentence of lengthy community service would be an adequate penalty here. It would have the advantages of permitting you to work productively with others which I believe you could do well rather than having you be warehoused in a prison. Nevertheless, I believe that a prison term is required for the purposes of general deterrence; that is, the need to deter others from violating the law and the possibility that the sentence given in one case will prevent others from violating law.
Prison sentences are viewed as one of the most powerful deterrents to the financial community. This view is reflected in the legislatively mandated sentencing guidelines which punish white-collar crimes with more prison time than was common before their adoption, and I have looked to those guidelines for some guidance in connection with this sentencing.
When a man of your power in the financial world, at the head of the most important department of one of the most important investment banking houses in this country, repeatedly conspires to violate, and violates, securities and tax laws in order to achieve more power and wealth for himself and his wealthy clients, and commits financial crimes that are particularly hard to detect, a significant prison term is required in order to deter others.
This kind of misuse of your leadership position and enlisting employees who you supervised to assist you in violating the law are serious crimes warranting serious punishment and the discomfort and opprobrium of being removed from society.
Although community service can further the goals of punishment and retribution in cases whereby requiring a defendant to forego remunerative employment for a while, it causes defendant to suffer financially, such would not be the case here. In this case both the sanctions already imposed and imprisonment will further the goals of punishment and retribution.
The goal of rehabilitation is likely to be furthered by your providing community service after your incarceration.
 
Factors Behind the Sentencing
 I turn now to the sentence that is appropriate.
In deciding how long a prison term is appropriate and how much community service is appropriate, I have taken into account that long before your current legal problems you took a significant amount of your own personal time to serve the community by working with disadvantaged children rather, for example, than using all of your personal time to acquire possessions. You also successfully encouraged your colleagues at work to do the same.
I have also taken into account the emotional support that you have provided to your family, neighbors, co-workers, and the fact that many colleagues and competitors found you to be forthright, honorable and honest in your dealings with them over the years.
On the other side of the scale, I must also take into account that you were head of your department and that you used others in your department to effect unlawful schemes. By your example, you communicated that cutting legal and ethical corners is, at times, acceptable.
You also committed crimes that are hard to detect, and crimes that are hard to detect warrant greater punishment in order to be effective in deterring others from committing them.
 
Question of Cooperation
 I should also note, for the benefit of those who urge the court to sentence you to the full 28 years in an effort to force you to cooperate with the Government in its investigation in the future, that a court is not permitted to do that. Instead, a court is required to select a fair sentence for the crimes that occurred, and, only after making that decision, consider whether a defendant's cooperation with the Government warrants lightening the sentence.
Where a defendant cooperates with the Government fully and is of assistance to the Government, the defendant deserves a significant reduction in sentence for assisting the Government to uncover crimes that are otherwise very resistant to discovery.
So it is that Ivan Boesky, whose cooperation was characterized by the Government as the most extensive and remarkable in the history of the securities laws and who also persuaded his former staff to assist the Government in its investigation, was permitted to plead guilty to only one count of conspiracy to file a false statement that carried a maximum prison term of five years.
As I mentioned earlier, I have no way to evaluate now the value of any cooperation you may offer the Government in the future. I have never given a defendant credit for cooperation without knowing the extent of the cooperation and without knowing how useful the information was to the Government, and I will not deviate from that practice now.
If you cooperate, and if the Government moves for a reduction in your sentence based on your cooperation, the court can adjust your sentence accordingly.
 
Disregarded Statements
 Given that defense counsel objected to the portion of the Government's sentencing memorandum that urges the court to consider imposing a sentence as long as that given to the lead defendant in the Send case, which defense counsel views as a violation of the Government's undertaking in the plea agreement not to make any recommendation as to a specific term of incarceration, I note that I have totally disregarded all statements by the Government that relate to specific terms of incarceration as well as the Government's comparison of Mr. Boesky to Mr. Milken.
I made my own independent evaluation of the conduct of and sentences given to Mr. Boesky, Mr. Levine and others based on my reading of their presentence reports and the transcripts of sentencing arguments and I arrived at my own conclusion as to the appropriate proportionality among them.
 
Details of the Prison Term
 Mr. Milken, please rise.
You are unquestionably a man of talent and industry and you have consistently shown a dedication to those less fortunate than you. It is my hope that the rest of your life will fulfill the promise shown early in your career.
However, for the reasons stated earlier, I sentence you to a total of 10 years in prison, consisting of two years each on counts two through six to be served consecutively, and I also sentence you to three years of probation on count one. A special condition of your probation is that you serve full-time community service, 1,800 hours per year for each of the three years, in a program to be determined by the court. I also impose the mandatory statutory assessment of $50 on each count for a total of $300.
I advise you that you have a right to appeal this sentence.
You may be seated at this point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS SENTENCING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); BONDS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); INSIDER TRADING (74%); BANK FAILURES (70%); TAKEOVERS (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); WRITERS (68%); 

PERSON: WOOD, KIMBA M (JUDGE); MILKEN, MICHAEL R MICHAEL MILKEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



705 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: THE MILKEN SENTENCE;
Judge With a Reputation For Innovative Rulings

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
The Federal judge who sentenced Michael R. Milken yesterday to 10 years in prison has a reputation for bold and sometimes imaginative decisions and apparently did not feel unusual pressure in sentencing one of the best-known financiers of the 1980's.
Federal District Judge Kimba M. Wood normally works 12-to-14-hour days and did not change her schedule when given the voluminous files from the Milken case, said her husband, Michael S. Kramer, a columnist at Time magazine. "The notion that this has been a tense, nerve-racking thing for her is just not what I've seen at all," he said. 
 The actual length of the sentence for Mr. Milken, who became the most powerful investment banker of his era but violated a string of securities laws in the process, was a private decision for the judge. Over the weekend, Mr. Kramer said, "I asked her if she discussed it with her clerks, and she said no." He said the judge was unavailable for comment yesterday after her ruling.
 
 Novel Solutions
 Judge Wood is known in legal circles for her soft speech, solid grasp of law and economics and willingness to pursue innovative solutions to legal problems.
For example, in the settlement of a mail fraud case early last year, she devised a novel way to choose a special official who was to oversee the defendant's compliance, said Laura R. Handman, the New York lawyer who was appointed to the job and has since become a friend.
The settlement between the Justice Department and a mail order company called for a court-appointed official to review the truthfulness of the company's future mailings. When Judge Wood was presented with a list of candidates acceptable to both parties, she insisted that each candidate review the mailings that had led to the dispute and then give her an assessment, Ms. Handman said.
"It was a very ingenious, objective and useful way to go about picking a candidate," she said.
Judge Wood, 46 years old, has a bachelor's degree from Connecticut College, a master's from the London School of Economics and a law degree from Harvard University. She spent more than 15 years as a lawyer at LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby & MacRae in New York, where she specialized in antitrust cases.
"Antitrust law fascinated her because of the economics and broader policy dimensions," said Geoffrey D. C. Best, a partner at LeBoeuf.
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, nominated Judge Wood for the Federal judiciary in 1988. Mr. D'Amato said yesterday that he was impressed not only by her educational and professional background but also by her interest in public service.
"At a time when her career was taking off, she was willing to forgo the financial success" and take a job as a judge that would pay a fraction of her earnings as a partner at a large law firm, he said.
 
 'An Activist Judge'
 Because of the long hours required for her work, Judge Wood had to give up one of her hobbies, painting abstracts in oil, Mr. Kramer said. But she and her husband spend as much time as possible with their 4-year-old son, and the judge continues to play tennis and grow roses at a vacation home in Massachusetts.
Law professors who have read some of Judge Wood's decisions say that while her rulings are consistent with the letter of the law, they tend to reflect a concern for economic and social issues as well. "She is an activist judge in the sense that she is innovative and unafraid to follow her intelligence and research wherever they might lead," said Stephen Gillers, a law professor at New York University.
Judge Wood spoke strongly of the need to deter financial wrongdoing when she sentenced Mr. Milken yesterday. But Mr. Kramer said that his wife, although interested in policy issues, was following, "a staple of sentencing philosophy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; COURTS; JUDGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SENTENCING (91%); JUDGES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); WRITERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); BONDS (69%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); MAIL FRAUD (65%); 

PERSON: WOOD, KIMBA M (JUDGE); MILKEN, MICHAEL R; BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MILKEN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



706 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times In Albany Dim Smile of Speaker

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Among the many sure indications of New York State's slide into economic turmoil is the subdued look on the face of Mel Miller, the normally exuberant Speaker of the New York State Assembly, a man known for addressing just about everyone he comes across in the Capitol as "Darling."
Mr. Miller, the most powerful Democrat in the Legislature and the man New York City officials most often look to for relief from Albany, is not promising any help these days. But the Speaker says that, in an almost perverse fashion, the Legislature's need to carve $1 billion out of the state's budget has made his job easier, though more troubling. He just says no. 
 "There are no winners here, no winners at all," said Mr. Miller, who was first elected 20 years ago to represent the Flatbush section of Brooklyn and who became Assembly Speaker in 1987. "This is not a situation where you have a billion dollars and you're trying to figure out who to give it to. This is a situation where you have to cut, and you're just looking to do it as broadly and as fairly as possible."
 
Backs Cuomo's Approach
 Now that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's proposals for cutting the state budget are out, the focus in Albany is shifting to Mr. Miller and his counterpart in the Republican-controlled State Senate, Ralph J. Marino, the majority leader. The Governor's plan, which must be acted on by the Legislature, calls for deep cuts in aid to local governments and school districts, and for layoffs of thousands of state workers.
During a bitter budget battle two years ago, the 51-year-old Mr. Miller accused Mr. Cuomo of promoting spending reductions that would hurt poor New Yorkers and "fly against the obligation of government." But he is not portraying the coming deliberations in such ideological terms.
In fact, while he declines to say whether he endorses specific proposals in the Governor's plan, he said today that he had committed himself to the Governor's approach, which involves closing the state's $1 billion budget gap through spending reductions and without raising taxes, borrowing money or resorting to financial tricks to balance the books.
 
'At the Margins'
 "I'm not sure you really have any choice about it at this point," he said, shrugging his shoulders.
Many analysts seem to agree with him. "Certainly he may seek to change some of the Governor's cuts, but it's likely to be more at the margins than at the core," said Raymond Horton, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit monitoring group in New York City. "The basic obligation to cut is clearly there."
In staking out that position, Mr. Miller has left himself little room to maneuver in the budget minuet that will be played out here in the coming weeks, when the Legislature reconvenes in special session to take up the Governor's proposals. This is in marked contrast to a budget fight in the spring of 1989, when he prevailed against many proposed spending cuts and supported, along with Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Marino, one of the largest packages of tax increases in the state's history.
On the other hand, accepting the cuts at this point may not have a huge political fallout for Mr. Miller or for Democrats in the Assembly, who picked up three seats in the recent elections and now outnumber Republicans by 95 to 55. Mr. Cuomo drew up the list of cuts, and even if the package is adopted many lawmakers are expected to try to paint them as the Governor's.
 
Memorable Qualification
 Unlike Governor Cuomo, Mr. Miller is not exactly known for having a gift for public speaking. He is, in fact, better known for staring at the ceiling when he talks and saying things like "My head is that . . ." instead of "I believe that . . ." when reporters ask his opinions.
And, in a line he has never managed to live down, he once responded to a question about corruption in the Assembly by asserting that "personally speaking, for myself, to the best of my knowledge, I don't think I know anything, to the best of my knowledge."
Still, the Speaker has broad support from his Democratic colleagues in the Assembly and, in some contrast to Mr. Marino, his authority over his chamber has been unquestioned this year.
In Albany tradition, the Speaker, the Senate majority leader and the Governor make up the triumvirate of power in the Capitol, and many important decisions get made in so-called "leaders' meetings" among these three.
No one seems likely to challenge Mr. Miller's leadership in the near future, and the only apparent crack in his armor is one to which he has alluded himself. After an article appeared in The Village Voice, the Speaker acknowledged to his fellow Democrats earlier this year that he was under investigation concerning accusations of fraud in a 1985 real-estate transaction he conducted as a private lawyer. He has not been charged, and Mr. Miller said the allegations were unfounded.
 
'Reservoir of Credibility'
 Mr. Miller is widely recognized for his technical mastery of the state budget and other Albany arcana. When he called a meeting last week of Assembly committee chairmen, for instance, there was no dispute with his contention that cutting was the only serious option for solving the budget problem.
"There was no storm at the ramparts," said Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who is chairman of the Assembly investigations committee. "Mel has built an enormous reservoir of credibility with his members. No one doubted the problem was as bad as he said it was."
The Speaker's relationship with Governor Cuomo has been somewhat rockier. In 1987, when Mr. Miller took over, Mr. Cuomo engaged the Legislature in a prolonged battle over ethics legislation that was largely focused on payroll abuses that were said to have occurred before Mr. Miller was in charge.
Although a new set of ethics laws was ultimately passed, the Governor succeeded in putting Mr. Miller and other lawmakers on the defensive for most of the year.
 
A Warning of Worse
 And Mr. Miller, brushing aside Mr. Cuomo's reservations, sided with the Senate Republicans in 1987 in embracing a four-year tax cut. The state's fiscal woes have since caused the Legislature and Mr. Cuomo to defer a large part of the measure.
But relations between the two men seem far more cordial this year, and they largely agreed on budget details. And while Senate Republicans were downplaying the severity of the state's economic problems last spring, Mr. Miller backed the Governor's projections, indeed warning -- correctly -- that the problems were probably worse.
In the coming year, Mr. Miller's visibility seems likely only to increase. For one thing, he and Mr. Marino will control the redrawing of New York's Congressional district lines, a process that could be particularly tumultuous, since the state stands to lose at least three seats under current United States Census projections.
And although a run for statewide office seems unlikely anytime soon, Mr. Miller has vowed to direct some of his attention to issues of concern to upstate voters. All four new Democratic members of the Assembly are from upstate areas; of the 95 Democratic members, 38 are from outside New York City.
But for the moment, the Speaker, who normally exudes optimism, seems to have only discouraging words. "I tell people it's going to get worse," he said, spreading his arms in a gesture of helplessness. "How much worse? The downside is something you don't want to think about. The upside is, it will get only a little worse, not terribly worse. That's what I tell people these days."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mel Miller, Speaker of the New York State Assembly, whom New York City officials most often look to for state aid. He says the need to cut $1 billion from the budget has made his job easier, though more troubling. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); CITIES (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

PERSON: MILLER, MELVIN (SPEAKER); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



707 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: A Late Rally Pushes Dow Up by 9.16

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
After falling for much of the day, stocks rallied before yesterday's closing in thin trading. At that point some traders had already left to start the Thanksgiving holiday.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 9.16 points, to 2,539.36, with volume at 140.7 million shares, compared with 161.2 million on Tuesday. 
 The broader market, as measured by the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, gained 0.72 point, to 316.03. The number of Big Board issues advancing slightly trailed those declining, 719 to 746.
Although the market recovered from weakness, analysts cautioned that litle could be discerned from the pattern, with volume light and many market participants absent.
"One shouldn't read too much into pre-holiday sessions," said Stefan D. Abrams, chief investment strategist at Kidder, Peabody & Company. Rao Chalasani, his counterpart at Prescott, Ball & Turben in Cleveland, added, "It was one of those days when you can't really read anything into the market."
The Dow's sharp fall on Tuesday, when it lost 35 points, continued into yesterday's session, with blue chips down almost 20 points at 1 P.M. before rallying later in the afternoon.
With little economic news this week, traders looked ahead to the report on employment scheduled to be issued Dec. 7. The numbers are likely to be weak, they said, reflecting the economy, and the weaker they are, the more pressure there will be on the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy by continuing to take action to reduce short-term interest rates.
The most-active list was led by Boeing for a second day. The aircraft maker, which fell 4 5/8 on Tuesday, regained 1 5/8, to 44 1/4. Analysts at Merrill Lynch and Prudential-Bache reiterated buy ratings and said a report by Goldman, Sachs that touched off Boeing's drop had been too negative.
Banking and financial stocks continued under pressure. C & S/Sovran, a commercial banking company in the Southeast, lost 3/4, to 16 5/8. Citicorp lost 1/8, to 12 5/8. American Express fell 3/4, to 19 3/4. Smith Barney turned more negative on the Federal National Mortgage Association and several other banks and savings institutions. Fannie Mae lost 1, to 30 5/8.
National Semiconductor, the second-most-active stock, gained 3/4, to 4 1/4. The company said it planned to sell an advanced computer chip plant to Matsushita Electric for $86 million.
Square D, a maker of electric products, was up for a second day on takeover rumors, analysts said. The stock closed up 2, to 52 1/4.
 
 
Stocks Rise in Tokyo
 TOKYO, Thursday, Nov. 22 (REUTERS) -- Japanese stock prices rose today. The Nikkei index of 225 issues gained 583.29 points, or 2.56 percent, to close at 23,400.28. On Wednesday, the Nikkei lost 388.49 points.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Favorite Stocks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (84%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (84%); 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (69%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BOEING CO (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); THANKSGIVING (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); SAVINGS & LOANS (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); AIRCRAFT MFG (63%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



708 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Growing Number of Parents Are Opting to Teach at Home

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
When Michael Polino's playmates trudge off to school, the 7-year-old stays at home, where the dining room table becomes his desk and his parents double as his teachers.
The youngster has started first grade at home in Lemont, Ill., in what has become an increasingly popular but much debated alternative to public school. 
 Dismayed at the troubled state of public education and certain they can do better, hundreds of thousands of parents have begun teaching their children at home. In the last five years, the number of children taught at home has increased nearly fivefold, to 300,000 children, by Government estimates, or up to 500,000, by estimates of groups that advocate teaching at home.
Educators say the movement is ill advised because it leaves some students vulnerable to well-meaning but unqualified parents and can strip youngsters of the chance to develop social skills.
Even 500,000 children represent a small a fraction of the 46.2 million students enrolled in public schools, but the recent surge in growth has been startling. In the 1970's, government and home school groups estimated that 10,000 to 15,000 students were taught at home, most in families doing so for religious reasons. Now a broader group of parents is choosing to teach their children at home, a choice that all states allow but some regulate more strictly than others.
"You're seeing more yuppies come into home schooling," said Sandy Hall of Seattle, a spokeswoman for the National Homeschool Association who teaches her two children at home. "A lot of that has to do with knowing that it is an option. So many people still assume that you have to send your child to public or private school."
In the past, those dissatisfied with public school tended to think their only alternative was private school, and for many that was too expensive. But with increasing concern about drugs and crime in public schools and about a decline in the quality of teachers, parents who cannot afford or dislike the notion of private school have felt compelled to find another option.
"These parents feel it is their duty to raise their children, and they enjoy being with them," said Patrick Farenga, president of Holt Associates, a Cambridge, Mass., research and publishing company, which publishes curricular materials for home schooling. "Also they don't want them to be hurt spiritually, physically or mentally -- and all those fall into a reaction against public school."
Home schooling has long been used by families with fundamentalist religious backgrounds, but its growth beyond that group has made professional educators and state education departments jittery.
Attacking what they call an abandonment of public education when it needs help from all, officials in many states have moved to tighten rules for education in the home. In some states, like Michigan, the changes have set off lawsuits from home school families who are upset over attempts to enact more rigid regulations.
 
Computers and Museum Trips
 On any given day, Michael Polino tackles math from a first-grade workbook, aided by numbered blocks set up like an abacus. His mother, Mary, teaches him reading and writing, while his father, Richard, tutors him on computer use. One or the other sits down with him for formal lessons for two to three hours a day, they estimate. His education is rounded out by trips to nearby Chicago museums.
"I was against the idea of home schooling at the beginning," said Mrs. Polino. But her sister had been doing it for a few years, and Michael liked the idea, partly because he had seen his cousins being taught at home and partly because he had hated the local elementary school when he visited.
So Mrs. Polino, who was worried about the quality of public education anyway, decided to try teaching Michael at home. She sold her clothing shop, and the family now lives on the income from her husband's restaurant.
She initially fretted about Michael's social skills and academic progress, but after four months of home education, Mrs. Polino is confident on both counts.
 
Soccer as Meeting Ground
 Michael has completed one-third of an alphabet and reading curriculum designed for home schoolers and intended for use through the third grade, she said. He seems to be benefiting from personal attention and from being able to learn at his own pace.
The first-grader has joined a soccer team, alleviating his mother's concerns about mixing with other children his age. He also takes ice-skating lessons and will start karate in the spring.
"He has more time to do the work," said Mrs. Polino, explaining Michael's progress. "And it's nice that he has time to do other things."
In Seattle, Mrs. Hall said she started teaching her children at home because she was worried they would not get enough attention from the teacher. The biggest difference between public school and home schooling for her 9-year-old son, Kyle, and 8-year-old daughter, Cassandra, she said, is Mrs. Hall herself.
"I listen to my children, and when they are interested in a subject I help them," said Mrs. Hall, who also uses daily errands and experiences to teach. A clock with Roman numerals, for example, became a tool for her to teach the children about Arabic and Roman numerals.
 
Time for Creative Writing
 In East Chatham, N.Y., near Albany, Seth Rockmuller and Katharine Houk started home schooling when their eldest daughter, Tahra, now 21, finished eighth grade. Mr. Rockmuller said Tahra was not being "educated in a complete sense" in public school, and the couple wanted her to have more time to pursue her creative writing.
The parents then taught their two younger children, and Ms. Houk has become a seminar leader for a national group that encourages more parental involvement in children's education, whether in home schooling or traditional school.
Under the family's informal approach, Benjamin Rockmuller, 11, and Emily Houk, 8, have become independent thinkers, reading books of their choice in the morning and pursuing their curiosities as they arise.
Benjamin, for example, recently expressed interest in engineering, so Mr. Rockmuller called up friends in the profession for information.
Mr. Rockmuller, a lawyer, said a family's expense for home schooling varies with the choice of educational aids, books and trips.
 
Concern About Isolation
 For the education establishment, the home school movement is troubling. While some school districts have agreed to help home schooling families with curriculums, textbooks and other services, many more look askance at parents who educate their children at home.
"We think that children should be in the traditional setting because home schooling takes away from a child's social skills and isolates children racially and ethnically," said Gene Wilhoit, executive director of the National Association of School Boards.
But home school advocates say that the school environment -- where educators say students should learn social skills -- has increasingly driven away parents because of drug use and other problems. Moreover, few home school families live in rural isolation any more.
While home schooling is allowed nationwide, 32 states have specific laws governing education in the home. Most states require students schooled at home to take annual achievement tests to gauge their academic progress. Only Iowa requires that home school instructors have teaching certificates.
 
Districts' Loss of Income
 In efforts that have angered home schooling families, some states have begun tightening their laws on the ground that some children taught at home might be poorly educated. Earlier this month, for instance, Oregon's education department proposed that home schooled students be required to score higher on annual state-mandated achievement tests than had previously been required; if they do not reach the mandated scores, they must return to public school.
Left unsaid by many educators is the economic impact of a shrinking student enrollment. Although the number of home schooled youngsters constitutes a fraction in any school district, it results in lost state aid, which is usually doled out based on enrollment. That has prompted some of the government backlash, some home school advocates say.
Support groups for home school families have surfaced in most major cities, organized through the national association, said Mrs. Hall, the group's spokeswoman.
"Home schooling isn't for everyone," she said. "But neither is public school or private school."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "So many people assume that you have to send your child to public or private school," said Sandy Hall, a spokeswoman for the National Homeschool Association. She is shown instructing her children, Kyle and Cassandra, at their home near Seattle. (Doug Wilson for The New York Times) (pg. B14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES CHILDREN (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HOME SCHOOLING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); FUNDAMENTALISM (66%); RELIGION (66%); LITIGATION (61%); PUBLISHING (60%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



709 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
The Milken Sentence
Michael Milken was sentenced to 10 years in prison for violating Federal securities laws and commiting other crimes. The sentence was the longest received by any executive caught up in the Wall Street scandals that began to unfold in 1986, and many legal experts expressed surprise at its severity. [Page A1.]
Milken was sentenced not for his role in a "decade of greed," but for crimes aimed at enriching himself and clients, Federal Judge Kimba Wood said. But his legacy will be his role in the 1980's, and much of the vilification he is receiving stems from fear that the decade's excesses are leading to disaster. News Analysis. [A1.]
The judge in the Milken case has a reputation for bold and sometimes imaginative decisions. She apparently did not feel unusual pressure in sentencing the well-known financier. [D5.]
It took 27 minutes for the judge to finally speak the magic number -- and seconds for Michael R. Milken to absorb the shock. [D5.] Excerpts from the judge's comments. [D4.]
 
Companies
Laventhol & Horwath filed for bankruptcy protection. The accounting firm, once the nation's seventh largest, attributed its problems to litigation, tax law changes, a soft economy and bad press. [D1.]
Guinness announced plans to buy La Cruz del Campo, the largest brewer in Spain, for $1.02 billion. Stroh has owned 28 percent of the Spanish brewer, known as Cruzcampo. [D1.]
National Semiconductor signed an agreement to sell an advanced computer chip plant to Matsushita for $86 million. [D1.]
The rift over the price Matsushita would pay for MCA eased. Lew R. Wasserman, MCA's chairman, was said to be seeking $75 a share, while the Japanese electronics giant offered $70. [D1.]
MCI pulled its $50 million account from Wells, Rich, Greene and gave it to Messner Vetere Berger Carey Schmetterer. [D1.]
The British Government began the selloff of its electricity industry, in its largest privatization in 10 years. The Government expects to raise $10.2 billion in the stock offering. [D3.]
A Federal jury ruled that Mobil Chemical wrongfully dismissed a top environmental official after he refused to perform acts that would have violated Federal and state environmental laws. [B3.]
A Federal judge ruled that the police must allow striking Daily News workers to expand their picket lines at the newspaper's main printing plant in Brooklyn. [B5.]
 
International
Management experts say German managers must think in more modern and innovative ways if the country is to meet new and daunting challenges. [D1.]
 
Markets
Stocks rallied before the close in thin pre-holiday trading. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 9.16 points, to 2539.36. [D7.]
The dollar ended mixed in lackluster trading, up against the mark but down against the yen and pound. Gold prices rose. [D13.]
Soybean, soy oil and wheat futures prices rose, as traders hoped for greater domestic use and exports to the Soviet Union. [D13.]
Oil prices rose 72 cents to $29.63 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. One reason was France's prediction that the U.N. Council would authorize military action against Iraq. [D2.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds rose on news of an unexpectedly large rise in initial unemployment benefit claims, suggesting that employment conditions deteriorated further in November and might set the stage for easier credit. [D12.]
 
Today's Column
A look at the details of Trump's Taj Mahal settlement suggests that bondholders came away with a deal strongly weighted in their favor. Talking Deals. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NSM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SENTENCING (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); JUDGES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (86%); CURRENCIES (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); VERDICTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); TAX LAW (73%); SCANDALS (72%); ELECTRONICS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); CHEMICALS (69%); STRIKES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); FUTURES (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%); GOLD MARKETS (65%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); WHEAT MARKETS (64%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



710 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: 57% of U.S. Math Doctorates Going to Foreigners

DATELINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE

 BODY:
Of the 933 doctorates in mathematics awarded in the United States in the last academic year, only 43 percent went to American citizens, the lowest percentage on record.
A survey published this month by the American Mathematical Society said that from July 1, 1989, to June 30, 1990, the number of Ph.D. degrees in mathematics increased by 3 percent over the preceding year and by 15 percent over the average of the last four years. But only 401 of the recipients of doctoral degrees were United States citizens. 
 In recent years, foreign students have won increasing shares of advanced United States degrees in engineering, mathematics and several sciences. The latest survey suggests that the trend is continuing.
The participation of blacks in advanced mathematical training also appears to be declining, the report said.
In the previous year, nine American blacks received doctorates in mathematics, a slight increase, but in the period covered by the latest survey, only four were awarded the degree. The proportion of women awarded doctorates in mathematics also fell slightly, from 24 percent to 22 percent.
 
'We Are Disappointed'
 Dr. Edward A. Connors, a director of the survey who is at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, said, "We are disappointed that the increases in awards to women and blacks reported last year were not sustained."
The survey also indicated that when new holders of doctorates take jobs in teaching or research, they cannot expect quick wealth; median starting salaries for new doctors of mathematics are $32,000 for men and $32,500 for women.
Mathematics is a core subject on which all sciences depend, and educators predict that the decline in doctoral degrees awarded to Americans in these subjects will jeopardize the nation's economic prospects.
A year ago, the National Science Foundation reported the results of a study concluding that by the year 2006, the United States would face a shortage of 675,000 scientists and engineers.
One of the problems, the foundation reported, is demographic. White men now make up 80 percent of the scientific and engineering work force in this country.
But by the year 2010, white men will account for less than one-third of the college-age population.
If greater proportions of women and nonwhite men cannot be recruited for advanced mathematical, scientific and engineering programs, the lack of trained professionals will severely hobble national technologies that sustain economic health, the study concluded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTSC (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (85%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (85%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (85%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (85%); AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY (91%); AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MATHEMATICS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS MATHEMATICS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); MEN (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TRENDS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (75%); WOMEN (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



711 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: SUMMIT IN EUROPE;
The Question Than Lingers on Europe: How Will Goals Be Achieved?

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 21

 BODY:
The European summit conference this week formally buried the past of a divided continent and adopted a blueprint for unity, democracy and prosperity, but it fell short of charting a detailed course through the multiple obstacles that stand in the way of achieving those goals.
 Having gathered the leaders of the United States, Canada and 32 European nations to toast the end of the cold war, the three-day summit meeting even ended today on something of a muted note as it recognized the problems of hunger, unemployment, minorities and migration that still threaten stability. 
 The rights and freedoms endorsed today are now "less a question of definition than of application," President Francois Mitterrand of France told the closing session. He added, "We Europeans have 10 years in which to win our race against history."
In this sense, no leader better symbolized the meeting's hopes and fears than President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. He was hailed for his role in allowing Eastern Europe to break with Communism, yet more than ever Europe's immediate future depends on his ability to avert chaos in the Soviet Union.
 
A Sort of Bill of Rights
 While enthusiastically committing themselves to democracy and market-oriented economies, Eastern European leaders warned the West of the dangers of unfulfilled expectations and their compatriots of the perils of a resurgence of bitter ethnic disputes.
And even Western leaders could not dwell long on their victory over Communism. Having denounced the division of Europe for four decades, they are now alarmed at the prospect of a flood of migrants fleeing the former Soviet bloc for the greener pastures of Western Europe.
In signing the Charter of Paris for a New Europe here this morning, however, the 34 leaders were not approving a prescription to cure all the region's ills but rather spelling out a sort of Magna Carta or Bill of Rights for their citizens, who number close to one billion.
For the first time in history, Europe, Canada and the United States agreed to a common set of values and objectives that are, in practice, those of the West, not least on points of human rights, democracy, economic freedom and the rule of law. They also pledged to seek security for all in the context of a united Europe.
Addressing one of the specters hovering over Europe today, the charter further insisted that "the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of national minorities be respected." And it called a special European conference on minorities in Geneva next summer.
 
Unanswered Questions
 Yet in many areas the summit meeting held under the auspices of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe spoke in grandiose terms but failed to answer specific questions raised by the collapse of Communism and the political transformation of Europe.
The urgent issue of economic aid to the Soviet Union, for example, was tackled outside the summit setting of the international conference center near the Arc de Triomphe, with Mr. Gorbachev busily lobbying Western leaders for everything from credits to food as a tough winter rapidly approaches.
In his meeting with the West German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, he obtained the promise of a high-level delegation that will visit Moscow to prepare a package of aid from the European Community. And when he met Canada's Prime Minister, Brian Mulroney, he delivered a list of Moscow's food needs.
No less worrying to Western leaders is the danger of disintegration of the Soviet Union, a prospect that prompted several governments to heed Mr. Gorbachev's warning against "unbridled nationalism and mindless separatism" by ignoring the request of the three Baltic republics, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, for observer status at the summit meeting.
"Separatism is Gorbachev's deepest concern," said Foreign Minister Gianni de Michelis of Italy, adding that it was no less worrying to the West. "He thinks he can tackle the economic problems. But if separatist movements prevail, the risk of disintegration is so great that he will fail in all other areas."
 
A 'Delicate' Problem
 Similarly, while the summit meeting signaled the danger of ethnic disputes, it created no mechanism to address the problem of minorities and nationalities that is again disturbing Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia and has already driven Yugoslavia close to the point of civil war.
Several Eastern European leaders warned that ethnic problems would be made worse by economic frustration and, while the West is already deeply involved in aiding Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia, they appealed for more credits and investments to help them switch from centrally planned to market economies.
Western Europe on the other hand is increasingly aware that economic failure in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe will translate into uncontrolled emigration. "I consider this the most delicate problem of the next 10 years," Mr. de Michelis said, "but we can't deal with it through negative measures. We can't have a closed Europe."
The answer, many say, is economic growth and respect for minorities. Yet at the same time, Western Europeans are bracing for millions of new refugees if the Soviet Union lifts its travel restrictions. "We are convinced the problem of migrations will get worse," Belgian's Prime Minister, Wilfried Martens, said. "It is not a risk. It is a certainty."
With public opinion polls in many Western European countries reflecting unhappiness about high immigration from North Africa and Turkey, one recent United Nations estimate that as many as 25 million people may be ready to flee the former Soviet bloc has already prompted several governments to start investigating ways of keeping them out.
 
In a Vacuum
 Some Eastern European countries, notably Poland and Czechoslovakia, are also worried about an imminent influx of Soviet migrants. Czechoslovakia's President, Vaclav Havel, said on his return to Prague this evening that this was a topic he raised in numerous meetings.
Addressing what has become known as the "new architecture" of Europe, on the other hand, the West chose not to convert the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe into the all-European security structure favored by Moscow and several Eastern European countries as a substitute for the moribund Warsaw Pact.
Rather, the main pillars of the new Europe remain those of the old Western Europe -- the 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the 12-nation European Community -- in which Eastern governments have no place. As a result, in the words of Mr. Havel, they sense they are in "a political and security vacuum."
For the moment, though, such often-discussed ideas as Mr. Gorbachev's "common European home" and Mr. Mitterrand's European Confederation have been put on hold, perhaps to be tackled at the next Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe summit meeting, scheduled for Helsinki in 1992. In the meantime, Europe's security will revolve around NATO and its economic growth around the community.
Thus, while the Charter of Paris describes how the new Europe should look, it does not define how it should be built. "You have to remember this is a process," Mr. de Michelis said. "There's bound to be overlapping and contradictions and confusion. We'll be in a transitional stage for at least three or four more years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada talking to reporters at signing ceremony in Paris. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); CANADA (93%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); POLITICS (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (70%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN FRANCOIS MAURICE MARIE MITTERRAND (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



712 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: THE MILKEN SENTENCE;
Milken: Pathfinder for the 'Junk Bond' Era

 BODY:
PERSONAL
Michael R. Milken was born on the Fourth of July in 1946 and grew up in Encino, Calif. As a boy, he helped his father, and accountant, prepare tax returns.
Mr. Milken graduated from the University of California at Berkeley, majoring in business administration, and married Lori Anne Hackel, his high school sweetheart.
He received a master's in business administration from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. In a study there, he concluded that a diversified portfolio of bonds rated below investment grade, now known as "junk bonds," generally is a good investment because the high interest rates paid more than offset losses from defaults.
 
CAREER
Mr. Milken was hired full time by the bond-trading department of Drexel Burenham Lambert in 1970, after working in its Philadelphia office during business school. He generatged a substantial amount of Drexel's profits by trading high-yield bonds.
In 1978, the firm allowed Mr. Milken to move the high-yield bond department to Beverly Hills, Calif. Drexel used junk bonds to finance hundreds of small companies in the 1980's, reaping hundreds of millions of dollars in fees. Junk bonds later were used to finance a wave of corporate takeovers.
Mr. Milken used some of his earnings to start charitable foundations that he and his brother, Lowell, also a Drexel employee, endowed with hundred of millions of dollars.
 
CHARGES
In late 1986, after being linked to an illegal stocktrading network, Mr. Milken and Drexel became the main targets of the Government's investigation of insider trading. In 1988, they were charged with civil fraud and other allegations by theSecurities and Exchange Commission, and Drexel agreed to plead guilty to six felonies and pay $650 million.
Mr. Milken, his brother and Bruce Newberg, a former Drexel trader, were indicted in March 1989 on 98 counts of fraud and racketeering related to insider trading and other alleged securities violations. Mr. Milken vowed to fight the charges. He resigned from Drexel in June 1989 and set up a consulting and investing firm.
 
PLEA AND SENTENCING
In a reversal, Mr. Milken agreed in April to a plea bargain. In exchange, the Government agreed to drop all charges against his brother, Lowell.
On April 24, Mr. Milken entered guilty pleas to six felonies and agreed to poay $600 million in penalties. Specifically, Mr. Milken pleaded guilty to conspiracy; securities fraud, defrauding a mutual fund; assisting Ivan F. Boesky, a stock speculator, in filing a false statement with the S.E.C.; assisting Mr. Boesky in violating net-capital requirements, and assisting David Solomon, a mutual fund manager, in filing a false tax return.
"I realize that by my acts I have hurt those who are closest to me. I am truly sorry," he said then.
Sentencing by Federal District Judge Kimba M. Wood was postponed to allow for a hearing on Government allegations of crimes Mr. Milken did not admit.
Yesterday, Mr. Milken was sentenced to 10 years in prison, 3 years of probation and 5,400 hours of community service.
Source: Associated Press


GRAPHIC: 
Photos: Lori and Michael Milken (Reuters); Michael Milken at Drexel in 1978 (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times); At a charity event in September 1988. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)
s

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); BONDS (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FELONIES (86%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (86%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (86%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); INSIDER TRADING (74%); TAKEOVERS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CONSPIRACY (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); SENTENCING (68%); CHARITIES (67%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); JUDGES (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (63%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: MILKEN, MICHAEL R MICHAEL MILKEN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



713 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Indians' New Harvest

BYLINE: By Robert H. White; Robert H. White is the author of "Tribal Assets: The Rebirth of Native America."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
The only news to travel from Indian country to the major media in 1990 has been news of disaster: a violent standoff between Mohawks and Government officials in Quebec; fatal gun battles over casino gambling at the St. Regis reservation in New York State; the ignoble fall of Peter MacDonald from the helm of the Navajo Nation. America has been saturated with images of incompetent Indian leadership and harebrained business schemes. As much as Native Americans seek understanding, this has been a year when many would just as soon the press had ignored them.
Many, if not most, Native Americans remain America's internal exiles, living within confines established by their conquerors. Of two million Native Americans, 400,000 at last count lived below the poverty line. On and near reservations, one of every seven people lives on less than $2,500 a year. Federal statistics (not always the most accurate) measure American Indians as our least educated, most addicted, shortest-lived citizens.
Are all American Indians doomed to failure? Is the future of Native America to be an endless story of demeaning, mismanaged Federal wardship? Will American Indians be forever alienated in their own land? Not if the remarkable success of a small but growing number of communities is any indication.
 
The Passamaquoddy

In 1980, the Passamaquoddy Indians won $40 million in a Federal settlement of their land claim against the state of Maine. Most non-Indians expected the very poor tribe to squander its windfall on new cars and booze binges. Instead, the Passamaquoddies hired investment bankers, whose advice helped boost the value of the tribal portfolio to $100 million. 
 The tribe earned $60 million last year from the sale of a cement company purchased in 1983 through a leveraged buyout; the deal is now taught as a case study in financial acumen at Harvard. With these and other earnings, the Passamaquoddies have built a network of businesses that employ Indians and non-Indians alike in farming blueberries, stitching apparel and turning discarded plastic bottles into trunk liners for luxury cars.
An invention patented by the Passamaquoddies may soon allow the rest of us to breathe more freely: a smokestack scrubber that transforms coal smoke into fertilizer and distilled water. This breakthrough in clean air technology received $4.8 million in financing from the Department of Energy -- estimated profits run into the tens of millions -- while doing some very important good.
 
 
 
The Mississippi Choctaw
 In the early 1960's, the Mississippi band of Choctaw Indians were either indigent or sharecropping in the barren red clay hills of the state. Their impoverished reservation lay seven miles down the road from Philadelphia, Miss., whose inhabitants' historic opposition to local civil rights efforts was demonstrated by the murder of three civil rights workers there in 1963. One can hardly imagine less fertile soil for Native American prosperity.
The Choctaws' only asset at the time was cheap unskilled labor. Today, by dint of strong, straight tribal leadership -- which created a vigorous manufacturing economy from auto parts to greeting cards -- the Mississippi Choctaws have transformed a rural hellhole into the 15th largest employment center in the state. The 1,700 jobs generated by Choctaw enterprises have substantially reduced unemployment among the tribe's 5,000 members and also in the surrounding population. White neighbors who once shunned Indians now receive paychecks signed by the Choctaw chief, Phillip Martin, whose tribal administration is a model of efficient and caring local government.
 
 
The Ak-Chin
 In Maricopa, Ariz., southwest of Phoenix, the Ak-Chin Indian Community has turned a scattering of meager family farming plots into a roaring, high-tech agribusiness. Ak-Chin Farms sells its harvests of pima cotton to brand-name shirt companies and employs every one of the 500 Ak-Chin Indians. This venture was established over the objections of Federal administrators charged with the tribe's economic well being. The farming operation was sustained through a long, bitter battle in Congress that eventually secured for the reservation its water rights.
Ak-Chin's executive director, Leona Kakar, has moved her constituents out of mud huts into comfortable ranch-style houses. The community's pre-school program is so good that neighboring non-Indian children are waiting to get in. The Ak-Chin government provides cradle-to-grave health care and other social services, mostly funded by Ak-Chin's business revenues. Federal funds account for $20,000 of the community's $5 million annual operating budget. How many other American communities could make a comparable claim?
 
 
 
The Confederated Tribes
 If one reservation qualifies as the "big daddy" of Indian development, it is the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs, Ore. The largest employer in the central part of the state, the 600,000-acre Warm Springs Reservation boasts timber and lumber operations that gross some $30 million annually, a hydroelectric plant thqt generates 80 million kilowatt hours a year and a four-star resort.
These achievements are particularly notable given the confederation's humble beginnings. Three tribes were removed from their separate aboriginal territories in the 1800's and tossed together in Warm Springs. Their imposed home was so poor that some were living in tepees as late as the 1920's and so isolated that the first paved road entered the reservation only after World War II.
As with the Choctaws, strong political leadership made the difference. In the 1950's, the tribes began working to control their own natural resources, develop their managerial abilities and sustain their cultures. In Warm Springs today, civil servants live next door to shamans. A worker in the sewing plant may leave at the end of the day to attend a worship dance in the tribal longhouse.
These four examples by no means exhaust the catalogue of Indian success stories. The Eastern band of Cherokees owns the largest mirror company in the U.S. The White Mountain Apaches own the largest ski resort in the Southwest. The Sioux Manufacturing Corporation, on the Devil's Lake Reservation -- North Dakota's No. 1 employer in any given year -- is making 30 percent of the radar-absorbing tank camouflage for Operation Desert Shield.
Along any indicator of societal health, from education to freedom from substance abuse, these communities are gaining ground. They have succeeded in the face of truly daunting obstacles: an undereducated population, Federal regulations that seem designed to frighten off business partners and a legacy of false starts and broken promises.
Moreover, these communities appear to have sustained strong economic growth without sacrificing cherished cultural traditions. Indeed, some tribes believe their wealth has enabled them to preserve what they might otherwise have lost. Ninety seven percent of the Mississippi Choctaws can speak their aboriginal tongue, and their educational system is bilingual. The Passamaquoddies and Ak-Chin have reserved a portion of their business profits to establish their own language progams as well as ambitious tribal museum projects. A Warm Springs radio station devotes most of its programming to Native American music.
These shining examples prove that American Indian failure is not innate but imposed. They also remind us of the obvious -- that this country's native inhabitants are not (to paraphrase a Choctaw leader) mystic relics but real human beings.
But it would be wrong to infer from these triumphs that the problems of Native America are behind it, or that tribes no longer require Federal safeguards for their survival. The cruellest thing that could happen to Native Americans would be to have a pittance of good news used as yet another weapon against them.
Nevertheless, on a day when the painful history and dismal present of American Indians are drowned in day dreams of Squanto and William Bradford sharing the first Thanksgiving, we might ponder the words of a former Passamaquoddy governor, John Stevens: "Now we have a future, not just a past."

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN NATIVE AMERICANS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); CASINOS (78%); MURDER (77%); GAMING (77%); POOR POPULATION (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (68%); LUXURY GOODS (64%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (63%); FARM LABOR (62%); FERTILIZERS (61%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (60%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (50%); 

PERSON: WHITE, ROBERT H

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1990



714 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: La Escobilla Journal;
For Endangered Sea Turtles, Friends on the Beach

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LA ESCOBILLA, Mexico

 BODY:
The lifeguards at this broad Pacific Ocean beach are more than a little bit unusual. They carry machine guns, work at night, and rest only when they see the heads of their charges plunge for good beneath the waves.
The guards, who comb the eight-mile beach on foot and in all-terrain vehicles, are Mexican soldiers and civilian ecologists. The lives they save belong to more than 80,000 giant sea turtles, of a kind that have traditionally been slaughtered here each year while returning to La Escobilla from the open sea to nest. 
 "No one knows how they find their way back to this specific beach," said Homero Aridjis, a Mexican poet and conservationist who has been a leading force in seeking protection for the turtles. "But once they are on land they are completely defenseless. Turtle hunters can just wait for them and then kill them by the thousands."
Valued for their eggs, meat, skins and huge, exotic shells, the turtles were the object of such intensive killing for so long that ecologists feared that their 150-million-year-old species had been forced into permanent decline. Not far from La Escobilla, about 350 miles southeast of Mexico City, a now-abandoned turtle slaughterhouse gives testimony to an economy that depended on the butchery of hundreds of the giant amphibians a day, and thousands during seasonal migrations.
 
A Ban on Hunting
 But the turtles' plight has attracted attention from swelling numbers of environmental groups, who have successfully pressed the Government to impose limits on Mexico's turtle slaughter over the last decade. In May of this year, facing growing protests both here and abroad, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari acceded to a ban on all hunting of sea turtles and sales of related products, including the round eggs, which are considered a delicacy here and throughout much of Latin America.
The ban, which also offered Government aid to turtle hunters who were left without work, has succeeded in eliminating the most egregious forms of killing the turtles, which can live to be 100 years old and have been shown to have a higher intelligence than many mammals.
Local fishermen can no longer openly practice their tradition of flipping the 100-pound creatures on their backs to render them helpless before stacking them in trucks and hauling them alive to slaughter.
But the ban has not ended clandestine hunts at sea by fishermen who capture approaching turtles, then dump them after slashing open their egg pouches or cutting off their flippers for sale in Japan and other foreign markets. The ban has also instituted a perpetual race between egg poachers and ecologists to see who can arrive first after a female turtle crawls from the surf in darkness to deposit 100 or more eggs in a deep nest of sand just above the water line.
 
Thousands Arrive Togther
 During mass nestings, known here as arribadas, tens of thousands of female turtles swim ashore within hours of each other for the brief egg-laying process that is the only part of their lives spent on dry land. Male sea turtles, by contrast, never return to land after hatching from their shells and crawling instinctively to the sea.
The sheer size of the arribadas makes it impossible for authorities to record those nests individually. But at other times teams of ecologists patrol the beach constantly during prime midnight nesting periods, searching for female turtles as they arrive on shore. The scientists then follow the turtle, collect its eggs and take the nest to a guarded stretch of sand where it can be protected until the eggs hatch some six weeks later.
Under a brilliant canopy of stars on a recent night, a half-dozen young scientists and volunteers combed the vast, flat beach without flashlights, searching intently in the sand for turtle tracks that amount to little more than shadows in the darkness but are even harder to distinguish in artificial light.
After finding and discarding several sets of double tracks, which indicate that the turtle has nested and returned to sea, the ecologists found a single track -- a smooth center ribbon with serrated flipper marks, like the trail of an oarsman rowing across the sand. The track emerged from the sea and led to where a female turtle was building her nest just above the high-tide line.
 
Unfrightened by the Company
 Reaching deep into the sand with flexible rear flippers that clutch the loose fill and fling it several yards away, the turtle dug a hole nearly two feet deep, covering it with her own body and three-foot-wide shell.
Lost in the concentration of labor, the turtle was unfrightened by the scientists, who dug an access hole into the nest to catch the eggs as they appeared and stroked the turtle's head with gentle encouragement as she struggled to begin her delivery.
Then, with soft, plaintive moans and sighs that could be mistaken for the sounds of a human being, the turtle produced nearly 100 perfect round eggs, each falling gently into the hand of a scientist, who counted them all and collected them for transfer to the protected nursery.
"We have to get to the eggs immediately or they will begin mature and be too fragile to move," said Cuauhtemoc Penaflores Salazar, the 40-year-old Government coordinator of the Escobilla project, viewing the interior of a new egg by holding it against the lens of a flashlight. "But the poachers have the same problem. If they don't steal the eggs within the first few days, they begin to mature and are worthless for eating."
 
'Numbers Start to Come Back'
 Before the ban was imposed, biologists say, poachers ignored numerical limits on the turtle catch, and virtually no eggs survived at this beach, one of most important nesting grounds in the world for the Olive Ridley, the most common variety of sea turtle.
"Since the ban, we've already seen the numbers start to come back," Mr. Penaflores said. "More turtles arrived in the October arribada this year than at any other time in the last five years."
As he spoke, the turtle used her rear flippers to grasp handful-size quantities of sand, refilling the hole where the eggs were laid, then tamping it down thoroughly and casting dry sand over the surface to camouflage the nest.
Blinking the grit from her enormous dark eyes, the exhausted turtle began her slow march back to the sea, moving with remarkable grace on her wing-shaped flippers. Visible only as a silhouette against the eerie, phosphorescent breakers, the turtle was rinsed and then spun around by a wave, and then finally dove strongly beneath the surface.
Watching transfixed in the darkness, La Escobilla's team of turtle lifeguards stood for a moment in silent admiration, then let out a cheer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A giant sea turtle laying eggs on the beach in La Escobilla, Mexico, amid eager observers who hope to save the turtles from extinction. (Mark A. Uhlig/The New York Times); map: Mexico, indicating La Escobilla (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SALINAS, CA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LA ESCOBILLA (MEXICO); PACIFIC OCEAN

SUBJECT: TURTLES AND TORTOISES; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; SALES; VOLUNTEERS; BEACHES REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (93%); BEACHES (92%); OCEANS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); WATER SPORTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (76%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (75%); MAMMALS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); 

PERSON: SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES); UHLIG, MARK A

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



715 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Britain Plans to Send 14,000 More Troops to Gulf

BYLINE: REUTERS

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
 Britain will send 14,000 more troops and additional tanks, aircraft and ships to the Persian Gulf, bringing the total number of British troops there to 30,000 by the end of the year, the Defense Minister said today.
The Minister, Tom King, told Parliament that the Government had decided to deploy an extra brigade, a division headquarters and supporting arms. "They will join the Seventh Armored Brigade in Saudi Arabia to form the First Armored Division," he said. 
 About 16,000 British troops are now in the region as part of the American-led military buildup that followed Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August. But Mr. King said it was evident that the numbers were insufficient.
"This will represent a potent increase in the fighting capability of British fighting forces in region," he said of the deployment.
 
Challenger Tank Regiment
 Outgoing Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, speaking in a determined voice just a few hours after she announced her resignation, told Parliament that time was running out for President Saddam Hussein of Iraq to remove his troops from Kuwait.
"The time is fast approaching when the world community will have to take more decisive action to uphold international law and compel Saddam Hussein to leave Kuwait," she said.
Mr. King said a Challenger tank regiment, two armored infantry battalions equipped with Warrior fighting vehicles, an armored reconnaissance squadron, a field artillery regiment, engineers and other support staff would join the British brigade.
Lynx anti-tank helicopters, support helicopters and two minesweeping vessels would also be sent, he added.
 
British Number Rises to 30,000
 Mr. King said 14,000 troops would be involved, creating a First Armored Division in Saudi Arabia of 25,000 troops and bringing the number of British forces in the multinational force opposing Iraq in the gulf to 30,000.
He said a reconnaissance party would leave today and that the first troops would begin to move by the weekend. They would all be in place in Saudi Arabia by the end of the year.
Mr. King said the British troops would be under the United States tactical command and that an American brigade could be assigned to the new division.
 
'Clearest Possible Message'
 British troops were first sent to the gulf to join part the American-led force in countering the invasion and enforcing a United Nations resolution imposing an economic blockade of Iraq and occupied Kuwait.
Mr. King said the new deployment "is the clearest possible message to Saddam Hussein that there is a credible military option." He called on the Iraqi leader to "end his aggression, release his hostages and leave Kuwait."
The Defense Minister added, however, that it remained "the Government's firm objective to resolve this crisis as soon as possible and by peaceful means."
Michael Heseltine, a Conservative member of Parliament and former Defense Minister whose challenge to Mrs. Margaret Thatcher's leadership forced her to announce her resignation, was quick to endorse the move.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GULF STATES (93%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; GREAT BRITAIN; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: MILITARY PERSONNEL; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (96%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HELICOPTERS (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



716 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: In Polish Race, No Parties Need Apply

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARSAW, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Poland's presidential election campaign, now entering its final stage, has embraced most of the external trappings of democracy, from bumper stickers to posters to opinion polls and last-minute mudslinging.
But as Poles prepare to vote Sunday in their first free presidential election in 68 years, there is one obviously missing element: national political parties.
When the Communist Party lost much of its monolithic power more than a year ago, there was a general expectation that it would be replaced by political groups representing the varied and often contradictory interests of such constituencies as farmers, industrial workers and the rising enterpreneurial class. 
 Instead, this fall's presidential campaign has been characterized by the politics of personality and a pervasive distrust of organized parties.
 
An Unexpected Challenger
 This trend is being disclosed by the remarkable showing of Stanislaw Tyminski, an emigre businessman from Canada and Peru, who has come from nowhere in three weeks to mount a serious challenge in public opinion polls.
Mr. Tyminski was virtually unknown when he announced his candidacy. Moreover, unlike his more established rivals -- Lech Walesa, the Solidarity leader, and Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki -- he played no role in the struggle to overturn Communist rule.
"In the absence of parties, we have something like the Greens in West Germany or like Proposition 13 in California," said Andrzej Wroblewski, the editor of the Polish financial weekly Gazeta Bankowa. "People here are angry at anyone who could be seen as an authority."
The latest public opinion poll shows that Mr. Walesa leads with 28 percent of the vote, with Mr. Tyminski at 21 percent and Mr. Mazowiecki at 17 percent. Under the election rules, a second round will be held Dec. 9 if no candidate wins a majority on Nov. 25.
 
Emulating Solidarity
 For the last month, the six candidates in the race have done their best to try to emulate the Solidarity movement, which at the start of the decade was able to attract 10 million members with a program of anti-Communism designed to appeal to all Poles, regardless of their trade, profession, social group or geographic region.
In interviews, Mr. Walesa always portrays himself as being above or apart from any political parties.
Mr. Mazowiecki, the candidate with the greatest appeal to the most educated voters, has for his part sought to reach out to rural dwellers by promising telephones in every village within two years and stressing a platform promise that "Polish farmers should have no fears for the future."
That optimism stands in sharp contrast to the statements of Ryszard Bujak, one of Mr. Mazowiecki's leading supporters, who repeatedly says Poland's economic restructuring requires the bankruptcy of millions of small, inefficient farmers.
In both the local elections earlier this year and the presidential race, politicians in Poland quickly concluded that declaring themselves members of a "party" inevitably invoked memories of "the party."
"We think of ourselves as a party that has not yet consolidated," said Stanislaw Rojek, the secretary of the Center Alliance, a group that someday hopes to play a role similar to the Western Europe's Christian Democratic parties.
 
No More Big Parties
 "There is a considerable dislike of people for political parties as such because of the Communist past," Mr. Rojek said. "But this is something that is slowly changing. Still there won't be anymore big parties in Poland. Their time is over."
The Center Alliance, which has 60,000 to 70,000 members among Poland's 27 million voters, has been the most vocal force behind the candidacy of Mr. Walesa. Broadly speaking, its supporters come from the center-right of the political spectrum. Its main opponent, the Civic Movement for Democratic Action, has been organizing on behalf of Mr. Mazowiecki.
A third major grouping, bidding to become the political voice of the 30 percent of the Polish population living in rural areas, is the Peasants' Party. Its presidential candidate, Roman Bartoszcze, has hovered between 5 and 10 percent in the opinion polls.
Mr. Wroblewski said the lack of established political structures in Poland -- coupled with an intense longing for simple solutions to complicated problems -- explains the sudden emergence of Mr. Tyminski.
"What party structure means is not only an electoral machine to win elections," Mr. Wroblewski said. "It's a certain system of gradual filtration of programs, of people. When you're in a political party, you have some place where you can turn to the person next to you and ask: 'Does this comply with the philosophy of our party?' That hardly exists here. The very idea was completely compromised by the Communist system."
 
'A Pole Can Do It'
 Supporters of Mr. Tyminski said in interviews that they saw him as a fresh face. They were attracted to his success in Western business, and, in the words of Mr. Wroblewski, "he says to people, 'A Pole can do it.' "
After weeks of ignoring Mr. Tyminski, the Polish press reported today that he had been refused entry into the military in the 1960's because of mental illness. Another report said he had often traveled to Poland before the fall of Communism, despite his statements to the contrary. The report noted that he obtained visas several times from the Polish Consulate in Tripoli, Libya.
Polish television and newspapers also criticized Mr. Tyminski for falsely charging that the Prime Minister planned to sell state enterprises for too low a price. The documents cited by Mr. Tyminski as proof of this charge actually refer to the company's annual sales, not the offering price.
But it was unclear whether the attacks on Mr. Tyminski by established press organizations would not be counterproductive, since for many years Poles say they have learned not to trust what they read in the newspapers or see on television.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers in Warsaw yesterday discussing whom they plan to vote for in Poland's first presidential election, which is scheduled for Sunday. In the background were posters that read "Walesa -- Yes!" (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (96%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); FACTORY WORKERS (55%); 

PERSON: ENGELBERG, STEPHEN; WALESA, LECH; TYMINSKI, STANISLAW; MAZOWIECKI, TADEUSZ (PRIME MIN) LECH WALESA (68%); TADEUSZ MAZOWIECKI (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



717 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Mid-Rise Apartment Houses Making New York Comeback

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Some developers and city planners think they have conceived an ingenious solution to New York City's housing shortage. It is a squat building, about six stories tall, with individual living units arrayed along a central corridor and an elevator connecting the floors and the street. It is called an apartment house.
Once the mainstay of New York's housing stock, framing broad boulevards like Ocean Parkway and the Grand Concourse and dominating countless side streets in Brooklyn, Queens, northern Manhattan and the Bronx, the mid-rise apartment building fell out of favor over the last three decades. 
 New York's zoning law encouraged taller, thinner structures, and the city's economy made building a six-story apartment house too expensive for the working- and middle-class families who had called them home for much of the century.
But even in the midst of an economic downturn, the mid-rise building is making a comeback, spurred by new zoning rules and innovations in construction techniques. About 35 new four- to seven-story buildings with elevators have gone up in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx in the last three years, city planning officials say.
The re-invention of the mid-sized apartment house was probably inevitable. High-rise towers cost so much to build that they are appropriate only for the well-to-do, and then primarily in Manhattan. The new two- and three-story town houses that have become popular in the boroughs outside Manhattan are less expensive, but they do not provide enough apartments for a large city that is desperately short of housing.
"The model of the six- to eight-story building is what we would design if we were starting over," said Kathryn Wylde, the president of the New York City Housing Partnership, a nonprofit group that helps develop middle-income housing.
The mid-rise building achieves a scale appropriate for many parts of New York, planners say. It provides more housing than low-rise town houses, and it offers a more direct and comfortable relationship with the streets than do high-rise towers.
 
'Manageable in Scale'
 The six-story building is "coming back for all the right reasons," said Roberta Brandes Gratz, the author of "The Living City," a book on urban planning.
"It's very appropriate for an urban redevelopment, much more appropriate than these ridiculous suburban-style developments that are going up in cities," Ms. Gratz said. "It's manageable in scale and it allows for secure courtyards and good street-front observation, a closer sense of community than high-rise buildings."
The mid-rise building also offers the city government a new model in its ambitious, multibillion-dollar subsidized housing program. The effort, begun four years ago, concentrates on two basic housing types: rebuilding abandoned structures in poor neighborhoods and constructing two- and three-story row houses and town houses for the middle class.
But since the city is likely to run out of vacant buildings in the next few years, it will have to decide whether it can afford to build new housing for the poor and, if so, how to do it. The choice of many housing specialists is the mid-rise apartment house.
 
A Model in the South Bronx
 A possible prototype for the next generation of mid-rise housing, some housing experts say, can be found in the South Bronx, four blocks north of Yankee Stadium. There, a six-story slab of salmon and beige sits almost complete on a small hill overlooking the elevated subway. Tenants are to begin moving in early next year.
The exterior is bright and cheerful, the apartments spacious and comfortably appointed. In the back, a sleek playground in a landscaped courtyard looks out on the private parking lot.
Construction has taken only 10 months, about half the ordinary time, because the developers used new prefabrication techniques. The walls are panels, made in a factory out of heavy gauge structural steel with an acrylic, stucco-like exterior. The floors and ceilings are factory-built concrete planks that are pieced together at the site.
The prefabrication techniques prevent bad weather from slowing down the job, makes the entire process more predictable and reduces security costs and the theft of building materials. "The speed is phenomenal," said Philip E. Aarons, the president of the General Atlantic Realty Corporation, the general partner in the development team. The pace reduces the cost of interest on the construction loan.
 
Adding Up the Costs
 Mr. Aarons said the construction of the building, which is at the corner of Gerard Avenue and McClellan Street, cost $75 a square foot, at least 25 percent less than the usual construction cost of comparable mid-rise buildings. High-rise buildings can cost at least $130 a square foot to build. Other costs, including land, financing and architectural and legal fees, added another $25 a square foot to the total development cost of Gerard Gardens.
Even with the innovations, the apartment house was sufficiently expensive to build that the developers would have to charge rents of $1,100 a month for it to be "marginally profitable," Mr. Aarons said.
Few would pay such rents to live in the South Bronx, though. Rents for a one-bedroom apartment in the building will be about $415 a month. Two bedrooms will rent for about $480.
The developers will use two new government subsidies to keep rents low and still earn their profit. One, the Federal low-income tax credit, allows corporations to buy credits on their taxes by investing in housing for the poor.
The other subsidy is a city program, in which developers obtain large tax abatements for market-rate housing in Manhattan by building low-income housing elsewhere. The developers can use the abatements themselves or can sell them, in the form of certificates, to other developers.
 
An Appealing Notion
 In general, these government housing programs define low-income families as those with incomes below $25,000 a year.
City housing officials were skeptical of Mr. Aarons's construction cost estimates, but they said they found the idea of mid-rise apartments appealing. "The notion of $70 to $75 a square foot, it's only Phil who has done it," said the City Housing Commissioner, Felice Michetti, "We have not looked at the actual, real numbers."
Many housing experts said six-story buildings may once again make financial sense for private developers in middle-class neighborhoods.
"There was a time when that minimally built, very modest, stock six-story building was the sensible thing for a developer to build," said Ada Louise Huxtable, an architecture critic and consultant. "It was a completely natural and logical thing to do, and it made economic sense."
Most of the new mid-rise structures built recently are in affluent neighborhoods like Bay Ridge, Park Slope and Windsor Terrace in Brooklyn. Unlike Mr. Aarons's building, which was built at six stories fundamentally for economic reasons, most of these were built at that scale largely because of new zoning rules.
When the city's zoning law was overhauled in 1961, tall, thin buildings with large, open public spaces were fashionable. By the 1980's, though, many planners and architects had second thoughts about the 1960's vision, called "the tower in the park."
"We began to see that these very tall buildings and badly designed plazas were not the absolutely perfect way to build a city, as they had been presented," Ms. Huxtable said.
In 1987, the city's zoning was again modified. In some areas, mid-rise buildings are now required. In others, they are offered as an alternative to tall towers.
The mid-rise building "is kind of like a comfortable pair of shoes that you are used to," said Richard L. Schaffer, chairman of the City Planning Commission. "It feels right to people, and provides a good solid form of housing."
"Good ideas do sometimes fall out of favor," he added. "But if they are good ideas, often they come back into vogue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After a period of tall, thin buildings, the mid-rise building is making a comeback. Above, a six-story apartment building under construction at Gerard Avenue and McClellan Street in the South Bronx. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); BRONX (NYC); QUEENS (NYC)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES; ZONING; URBAN AREAS MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); FAMILY (73%); SUBURBS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



718 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: SHIFT IN SAN JUAN ON VOTE ON STATUS

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Leaders of Puerto Rico's governing party say that unless there is quick agreement in Congress on a referendum on the island's political future, they will call off their effort to hold such a vote in 1991.
In the vote, Puerto Ricans are to decide whether they want the island to become a state or an independent nation or to remain a commonwealth of the United States, with revisions in the way its status is drawn. 
 The House approved legislation for a referendum in 1991, but in October the Senate put off consideration of its bill.
 
Who Should Decide?
 The House bill provided for Congressional approval of the voters' decision before it could be carried out. But the Senate bill would give the voters the final word, putting their decision into effect without Congressional approval.
The island's governing party, the Popular Democratic Party, which supports commonwealth status, decided last weekend to back a vote in 1993 rather than 1991 unless Congress acted quickly to resolve the measure's wording.
The party leaders say they are trying to put pressure on Congress to take swift action. But other politicians in Puerto Rico say the party is backing away from its commitment to a referendum as the drive for statehood has gained momentum.
Statehood supporters emphasize the representation in Congress and the right to vote in Federal elections that would go with that choice. A Puerto Rican state would have two senators and at least five House members, they say. Statehood would also oblige residents to pay Federal income taxes.
Proponents of independence contend that Puerto Rico should be self-governing and argue that only as a free country could it preserve its own history and culture. They say Puerto Rico's national will has been weakened by its dependence on the United States.
 
Argument for Commonwealth
 Commonwealth supporters say Puerto Ricans derive distinct financial benefits from their relationship with the United States that would be lost through statehood or independence. These include special tax benefits intended to stimulate investments from United States companies, which account for about half of the $22 billion in private investment on the island.
President Bush has been a longtime supporter of statehood. The Puerto Rican Governor, Rafael Hernandez Colon, supports the commonwealth option, with some modification of Federal laws and regulations aimed at encouraging the island's economic growth. He has been severely criticized for the time he has spent away from the island, lobbying in Washington for the referendum.
The party leaders say that unless a Congressional agreement is reached within a month after the new Congress convenes, it is unlikely that a referendum could be held in 1991.
"Nobody wants a plebiscite in 1992," said Jaime B. Fuster, a leader of the Popular Democratic Party and the island's nonvoting representative in Congress. "We have our own elections in 1992, and they will be complicated enough."
"There is a stalemate in Congress, and we don't see any signs that it's going to change," Mr. Fuster continued. "The people of Puerto Rico have been left dangling, with great expectations, and the Governor has had to devote too much time to this issue."
 
'Take Us Seriously'
 Mr. Fuster, a co-sponsor of the House bill, views the party's decision as a move to pressure Congressional leaders to break the legislative deadlock. "We're putting the ball in the leadership's court," Mr. Fuster said. "We're saying, 'Take us seriously, or let us be.' "
The party's leaders, including Mr. Hernandez Colon, made their decision last weekend at a two-day conference in Ponce, P.R. The vote was 174 to 5.
Luis A. Ferre, former Governor of Puerto Rico and a founder of the pro-statehood New Progressive Party, assailed the Popular Democrats' decision. "This amounts to putting a termination date on the right of self-determination," he said.
Senator J. Bennett Johnston, a Louisiana Democrat who is sponsor of the Senate bill, has scheduled a trip to Puerto Rico next week to meet with supporters of all three options. Claire M. Miller, a spokeswoman, said the Senator had no comment on the position taken by the Popular Democratic Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (84%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (92%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; STATEHOOD (US); REFERENDUMS; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION REFERENDUMS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); HISTORY (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



719 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Excerpts From Speech By Bush at Marine Post

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's remarks yesterday at a Marine outpost in northeastern Saudi Arabia, as provided by the Federal News Service, a Washington-based transcription agency.
 You know, Thanksgiving is the oldest, some, some might say the most American of holidays, dating back to our very origins as a people. And it's a day, I think we would all agree, separate and apart from others. It's a day of peace, it's a day of thanks, a day to remember what we stand for, and what it means to be an American, and why our forebears sacrificed so much to cross an ocean and build a great land. 
 And on this day, with all that America has to be thankful for, it is fair for Americans to say, Why are we here? It's not all that complicated. There are three key reasons why we're here with our U.N. allies making a stand in defense of freedom. We're here to protect freedom, we're here to protect our future, and we're here to protect innocent life.
And number one, protecting freedom means standing up to aggression. You know, the brutality inflicted on the people of Kuwait and on innocent citizens of every country must not be rewarded, because a bully unchecked today is a bully unleashed for tomorrow. And last Aug. 2 this brutal dictator set out to wipe another country from the face of the earth, and Kuwait, a little tiny country, awoke to the flashing guns of cold, cold-blooded troops, the fire and ice of Saddam Hussein's invasion.
And now Kuwait is struggling for survival, an entire nation ransacked, looted, held hostage. And maybe you can strike a name from, name from the maps, but you can't strike a country from the hearts of its people. The invasion of Kuwait was without provocation, the looting of Kuwait is without excuse, and the occupation of Kuwait will not stand.
 
 Protecting Security
 And number two, our mission is about protecting national security, which is to say protecting our future, because energy security is national security for us and, indeed, for every country.
Last year on a snowy Thanksgiving eve up there at Camp David, I spoke to the American people about the newly fallen Berlin wall, and the piece of the wall that sits on my desk is a reminder of our steadfast role in the worldwide explosion of freedom. But now, the march of freedom must not be threatened by the man whose invasion of Kuwait is causing great economic hardship in the countries which can afford it the least.
We saw it in Czechoslovakia. Barbara and I are just back from Czechoslovakia, where the progress of their peaceful revolution has already been damaged by the shock waves from Iraq's aggression. President Havel told me that Saddam's aggression is having a severe effect on his struggling economy. And every day that goes by increases the damage.
But when he was asked if our action in the gulf was taking too much money away from the problems of Eastern Europe, he answered plainly. He said, "All the resources that are expended on resisting aggression anywhere in the world are finally turned to the good of all humankind." This from that playwright that was jailed not so many months ago by aggression itself. Listen to the words of this man who stands for freedom.
Vaclav Havel is right. Iraq's aggression is not just a challenge to the security of Kuwait and the other gulf neighbors but to the better world we all hope to build in the wake of the cold war. We're not talking simply about the price of gas. We are talking about the price of liberty.
 
 Innocent Lives at Stake
 Number three, we're here because innocent lives are at stake. We've all heard of atrocities in Kuwait that would make the strongest among us weak.
Turns your stomach when you listen to the tales of those that have escaped the brutality of the, Saddam, the invader. Mass hangings. Babies pulled from incubators and scattered like firewood across the floor. Kids shot for failing to display the photos of Saddam Hussein. And he has unleased a horror on the people of Kuwait.
And our diplomats and our citizens held hostage must be freed. And it's time to stop toying with the American hostages. And it's time to start, to stop trying, for Saddam to stop trying to starve out our little beleaguered embassy in Kuwait City. And the same, General Courtingly, is true of the British Embassy that is courageously holding on. The two of us, side by side in Kuwait, as we're shoulder to shoulder in the sands of Saudi Arabia, and it's time to put an end to this cruel hostage bazaar, bartering in human beings in the days, like the days of the slave trade. Because if we let Iraq get away with this abuse now, Americans will pay a price in future hostage-taking for decades to come. And so will other nations.
Three simple reasons: protecting freedom, protecting our future, protecting innocent lives. And any one is reason enough why Iraq's unprincipled, unprovoked aggression must not go unchallenged. And together they make a compelling case. For you to be away from your families on this special Thanksgiving Day, they make a compelling case for your mission. No president is quick to order American troops abroad. But there are times when any nation that values its own freedom must confront aggression.
Czechoslovakia, they know firsthand about the folly of appeasement. They know about the tyranny of dictatorial conquests. And in the World War that followed, the world paid dearly for appeasing an aggressor who should and could have been stopped. We're not going to make that mistake again. We will not appease this aggressor.
 
 Gravity of the Threat
 As in World War II, the threat to American lives from a seemingly distant enemy must be measured against the nature of the aggression itself. A dictator who has gassed his own people, innocent women and children, unleashing chemical weapons of mass destruction, weapons that were considered unthinkable in the civilized world for over 70 years. And let me say this, those who would measure Saddam Hussein's, those who would measure the timetable for Saddam's atomic program in years may be seriously underestimating the reality of that situation and the gravity of the threat.
Every day that passes brings Saddam one step closer to realizing his goal of a nuclear weapons arsenal. And that's why, more and more, your mission is marked by a real sense of urgency. You know, no one knows precisely when this dictator may acquire atomic weapons, or exactly who they may be aimed at down the road. But we do know this for sure: He has never possessed a weapon that he didn't use.
What we're confronting is a classic bully who thinks he can get away with kicking sand in the face of the world. So far I've tried to act with restraint and patience. I think that's the American way. But Saddam is making the mistake of his life if he confuses an abundance of restraint, confuses that with a lack of resolve.
Over the past four months you have launched what history will judge as one of the most important deployments of allied military power since 1945, and I have come here today to personally thank you. The world is watching. Our objectives in the gulf have never varied: We want to free and restore Kuwait's Government, protect American citizens abroad, safeguard the security and stability of the region. A united world has spelled out these objectives in 10 United Nations Security Council resolutions.
To force Iraq to comply, we and our allies have forged a strong diplomatic, economic and military strategy. But the Iraqi dictator still hasn't gotten the message. And maybe he's confused by his own propaganda. This ridiculous radio broadcast, that I understand the marines have labeled the Baghdad Betty, well, she plays all the oldies, so one guy suggested that we send Iraq a tape of M. C. Hammer and a, a note that says: This is how we entertain ourselves; just imagine how we fight.
We have been patient. We've gone to the United Nations, time and time again. I'm prepared to go another time. We still hope for a peaceful settlement. But the world is a dangerous place. And we must make all of these options credible.
 
 We Want You Home
 Those in uniform, seems to me, will always bear the heaviest burden. We understand something of what you endure, the waiting, the uncertainty, the demands of family and military life. And we want every single troop home. We want every Brit to be able to go home as soon as possible. We want every single American home. And this I promise. No American will be kept in the gulf a single day longer than necessary. But we won't pull punches. We are not here on some exercise. This is a real world situation. And we're not walking away until our mission is done, until the invader is out of Kuwait. And that may well be where you'll come in.
As we meet, it is dawn in America. It is Thanksgiving Day. The church bells ring. An hour of prayer. A day of rest. A nation at peace. And especially today, Americans understand the contribution that you all are making to world peace and to our country.
Year after year, on this special day, no doubt each of you has given thanks for your country. This year your country gives thanks for you. Thanksgiving is a day of prayer, a day when we thank God for our many, many blessings. And I've done that today.
This has been an unforgettable visit, an unforgettable visit. And I leave, as I know our Congressmen do, and I know Barbara does, with prie in our hearts, a prayer on our lips.
God bless you all. God bless our faithful allies, the United Kingdom. God bless the marines. And may God bless the greatest, freest country on the face of the earth, the United States of America. Thank you and bless you all. Thank you. Good luck to all you guys.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (93%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KUWAIT (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GERMANY (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: SA DAY MANUFACTURING CO (93%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; SAUDI ARABIA; GREAT BRITAIN; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; THANKSGIVING DAY; MILITARY PERSONNEL MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



720 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Trying to Soothe Scared Bankers

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
ADDRESSING the New York chapter of the Arthritis Foundation this week, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady urged bankers to keep lending to their good customers. He is afraid the bankers may be spooked into creating a credit crunch by their fears of an economic slump and their worries about meeting tougher regulatory standards. To ease the latter worry, Mr. Brady told regulators not to use "unrealistically negative scenarios in evaluating loans."
"There are many ways to strengthen a balance sheet," said the Treasury Secretary, once an investment banker, "without shedding loans" -- like cutting costs, reducing dividends and merging with rival banks. Some large banks are determined to make mergers that would give them a chance to cut expenses and increase earnings. They fear that unless a banking crisis is prevented, the current economic slowdown could become the most severe recession of the postwar period. The banks are driving to protect themselves, and cutting loans is one way of trying -- but one that poses severe risks to local communities and the economy as a whole. 
 Prices of the securities of many leading money-center banks and regional banks have been falling, and their yields have been rising, in some cases to "junk bond" levels. Thus far, public notice has focused on the banks' falling common stocks, rather than on the climbing yields of their subordinated debt and preferred stock. Yield levels on the common stock, debt and preferred shares of most banks have climbed sharply, although Mr. Brady asserted, "Over all, the banking system is healthy, despite some pockets of difficulty."
Morris W. Offit, the president of Offitbank, an investment management bank, sees the situation the other way around, with general weakness and pockets of health. He thinks that "nobody has made the connection between the banks and the risks to the real economy." He also argues that thesoaring costs of capital are making it increasingly difficult for banks in every region to raise the money to meet tougher regulatory standards. Mounting pressures on the banks, Mr. Offit says, create risks of a "tremendous contraction" of the economy.
Although not all banks have felt the squeeze, many are seeing their costs of capital climb. Citicorp, the nation's biggest bank, has seen the yield on its subordinated debt climb to 13 percent, from 10.5 percent two months ago. Yields on the debt of many other banks are even higher: Chase Manhattan was at 14.2 percent this week; Baltimore Bancorp at 14 percent; Bank of Boston at 18.5 percent; Dominion at 15.5 percent; First City of Texas at 25 percent; First Fidelity at 15 percent; MNC Financial at 27 percent; Midlantic at 21 percent and Shawmut at 17 percent.
But some banks can still finance debt in the open market at much lower yields, among them are J. P. Morgan, at 9.6 percent; Bankers Trust and Security Pacific, at 10.7 percent each; Mellon, at 11.3 percent, and Wells Fargo at 11 percent.
The anxious bankers contend that if a financial crisis is to be headed off, some big steps will have to be taken by the Government and the Federal Reserve. They insist that the Fed should go further to ease money to counteract recessionary forces andthey maintain that the Fed can do so with much lower risks of inflation than in the 1970's. Some even perceive a threat of ruinous deflation, if downward pressures on the economy are not soon checked.
Some bankers want Government officials "to stop bashing the banks in public." Bank-bashing, they say, is making it harder for them to raise the capital they need to meet the standards of the Bank for International Settlements. To date, however, most banks are meeting those standards.
And the bankers are pressing the Administration to speed up a restructuring of the industry that would enable them to reduce their risks and costs, and expand their earnings, by merging with other banks. A revamped system would also allow banks to conduct business nationwide and expand into areas banned by existing law, especially the Glass-Steagall Act, like underwriting securities, selling insurance and operating mutual funds.
Without specifying exactly what banking legislation the Administration may propose soon after New Year's Day, Secretary Brady said in his Arthritis Foundation speech this week, "It's time to overhaul the system." He called for "fundamental structural reform" of the laws enacted during the Depression that have produced an "outmoded, burdensome and inefficient" financial regulatory system. This was his strongest statement on the subject to date. But the legislation is likely to face a tough fight in Congress, with small and regional banks fighting their larger money-center rivals.
For its part, the Federal Reserve, clinging to its historical secrecy, insists that it is well aware of the dangers of a banking crisis and has plans for dealing with one. The Fed thinks -- a Fed, as well as a White House, can think anonymously -- that it would only worsen anxieties in the marketplace, and possibly drive up interest rates and hurt the economy, if it talked publicly about its plans to rescue banks, provide liquidity and protect the economy and the financial system. The Fed insists that it knows more about the risks, and how to deal with them, than the nervous bankers do.
It feels that it demonstrated that capability, along with other central banks, after the October 1987 stock market crash.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (73%); BAC (LSE) (73%); 8648 (TSE) (73%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); WFC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (73%); BALTIMORE BANCORP (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION (84%); ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MERGERS (75%); BONDS (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); ARTHRITIS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (51%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD; BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC) CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



721 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: CHANGE IN BRITAIN;
Excerpts From Talks in Commons

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's appearance yesterday before Parliament, as provided by the Federal News Service, a Washington-based transcription company: 
 SPEAKER. Questions to the Prime Minister. Tony Marlow.
MARLOW (Conservative). Would my right honorable friend -- would my right honorable friend, excepting those of us on this side who share her objectives, whatever our roles may have been in recent weeks, but this is a day -- this is a time of sadness and happiness. Sadness -- sadness -- sadness for her -- sadness for her from the great well of affection that exists throughout the House. Happiness in celebration of what has been, is and will remain the greatest peacetime political reign of this century, and a day of dedication to sustain and build on the massive achievements of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.
THATCHER. Mr. Speaker, may I thank my honorable friend. The same person in a slightly different capacity will be available to serve Britain in whatsoever way it happens.
SPEAKER. Neil Kinnock.
KINNOCK (Labor). Mr. Speaker, may I pay tribute to the Prime Minister and to her decision this morning. She showed by that that she amounts to more than those who have turned upon her in recent days. Mr. Speaker, the right honorable lady, I know, considers the principle of choice to be extremely important and that is rightly so. Does she agree with me that the people of Britain should now be given the power of choice in a general election?
THATCHER. Mr. Speaker, may I thank the right honorable gentlemen for his earlier comments. In reply to his later question, the answer is no. No more than we had an election when Mr. Wilson changed to Mr. Callaghan.
SPEAKER. Mr. Churchill.
CHURCHILL (Conservative). Is my right honorable friend aware that she deserves the gratitude of the entire nation for her -- for her part in bringing to an end the Soviets' part in the arms race and burying once and for all the cold war between the superpowers. It is in that capacity that she will be remembered as the greatest peacetime prime minister this country has ever had.
THATCHER. I'm grateful to my honorable friend for his staunchness in defense and for his remarks. It was a great privilege to attend the C.S.C.E. conference in Paris and to sign some of the disarmament agreements and for the new C.S.C.E., which merely ushers in a new order in Europe, and I hope, a very successful peaceful one.
SPEAKER. Mr. Ashton.
ASHTON (Labor). Mr. Speaker, may I say to the Prime Minister that many of us recognize that she had to take a very tough decision this morning and we believe she took the right decision and took it with great dignity.
May I also say to her that however wide our political divisions, and they are, of course, very wide, no one can doubt the special style she's brought to that dispatch box, nor her courage, conviction, and determination which she has brought to her premiership.
Mr. Speaker, perhaps I might ask her to use this opportunity to offer to the House any advice she might have for her successor.
THATCHER. Mr. Speaker, I thank -- apart from the last bit, may I thank the right honorable gentleman for his kindness. May I remind the House that I expect to be here on Tuesday afternoon, and possibly even on Thursday afternoon -- [laughter] -- so I hope the House will be as kind then as it is today. [Laughter.]
SPEAKER. Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman.
KELLETT-BOWMAN (Conservative). Will my right honorable friend accept from me the love and affection of millions of people in my part of the world who have looked to her over the years with a gracious admiration and delight?
THATCHER. I'm particularly grateful to receive that from my honorable friend. We were at college together, and I think we've been together ever since.
SPEAKER. Mr. Greville Janner.
JANNER (Labor). Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted to thank the Prime Minister for many personal kindnesses which she has given over many years to back benches on both sides of the House? May I at the same time say how deeply concerned my constituents are that she has left the place in such a shambles? Is she aware that they are desperately worried about poll tax, about the deepening recession, about the health problems, and they are worried about the educational system and about the whole poor shambles?
THATCHER. He can speak to any brief and I don't believe he believes a word of it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher defending her policies yesterday at a House of Commons debate. With her were Kenneth Baker, Conservative Party chairman, and John Major, Chancellor of the Exchequer. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); CSC AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COLD WAR (74%); ARMS RACE (66%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); 

PERSON: THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) MARGARET THATCHER (94%); NEIL GORDON KINNOCK (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



722 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Slows, Malls Brace for a Blue Christmas

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Nov. 19

 BODY:
Christmas has already come to the mall. But along with the gaudy white tulle trees, the enormous ornaments bobbing from the ceiling and Santa Claus and his sneaker-wearing elves, there is anxiety here. You can see it among the merchants, many presiding over shops with few or no customers on the Monday before Thanksgiving. And you can see it among the shoppers, many who shop without buying.
In boom times, people expect great business. In bad times, they hope for the best. But this season, with the crisis in the Middle East, budget deficits at every level of government and a sense that the economy is poised for a painful downturn, the mood here is glum and cautious. No one is quitesure what is going to happen. 
 The Stamford Town Center, as this mall is called, has hardly had a terrible year and seems to be doing much better than many others. Michael S. Fenley, its general manager, said that a recent survey of 30 stores showed that sales are running slightly ahead of last year's levels. And some store managers say that despite a downturn since the summer, the pre-Christmas business has been much better than expected.
"If you have a positive attitude and don't mention anything about the economy, customers don't say anything," said Robert T. Hoffman, manager at the Shop for Pappagallo, who said that business had improved since last year. "But once you bring it up, they won't buy anything.
Everyone is worried. And for all the stores that say they are holding their own, there are as many admitting that things look bleak. As the 132 or so retail outlets here prepare for their biggest season of the year, many are reducing expectations, holding bigger and longer sales and steeling themselves for what some worry could turn into the saddest Christmas in recent years.
"Most people don't really want to talk about how bad their business is going," said Stephen J. DeMaria, store manager of the Custom Shop Shirtmakers, a store that makes men's shirts for about $65 and suits starting at $695.
The Stamford Town Center is one of Connecticut's premier malls, catering to people with average incomes of $70,000 with stores like Brooks Brothers, Abercrombie & Fitch and Saks Fifth Avenue.
In recent years, the mall has seen some of its specialty boutiques replaced by trendy chain stores like the Limited and the Gap, and a larger portion of its clientele are from moderate-income homes, said Walter Loeb, a retail consultant and president of Loeb Associates in New York.
 
Mall to Have a Blue Christmas?
 "The mall will definitely be impacted by recessionary trends in this area," said Mr. Loeb, "but it is a mall where you find that people have adequate incomes and adequate money to spend."
This Christmas, many store managers say, customers seem to be putting off shopping longer. They are looking for bargains. And while they have not stopped buying, they are not buying as much.
"It's obvious to everyone that there isn't as much money going around," said Diane Galbreath, the assistant manager at Sportstuff. "People are being more careful; they're not buying things on a whim." But while business has definitely slowed down, she said, "It's not near as bad as I expected."
At the Custom Shop, business is off by about 25 or 30 percent from last year. "The customers have cut back," Mr. DeMaria said. "You get one who might order two or three suits a year, one for every season. They may now come in and get one thing that will wear better year around, that will last through the two or three seasons."
On the floor below, Eric Seemann, the store manager of Black, Starr & Frost, an expensive jewelry shop, said that business was as bad as he could remember. A store promotion has bolstered November sales, he said, but otherwise, things are dismal.
 
Still Shopping, but Spending Less
 "I'd say we were experiencing closer to a depression, personally," Mr. Seemann said. "I can honestly say that fewer people are coming in."
Many regular customers are still shopping, he said, but spending less. "The ones who were spending $7,000 are spending $5,000. The ones who were spending $10,000 are now spending $2,000 or $3,000."
"They say, very simply and bluntly, 'Times are hard, money's tight and the boom years are over,' " said Mr. Seemann.
Many of the stores are shifting their strategies. Black, Starr & Frost has begun selling more items that are less expensive, so that the average sale this year will be below $1,000, down several hundred dollars from last year. At the Sharper Image, which sells grown-up toys like enormous fish tanks and audio-visual gadgets, the manager, Joseph Booth, said: "We've gone with a larger assortment of lower-priced goods. We'd now carry more goods that are $100 and less, like the electronic tie rack for $35. We're selling 20 to 30 a day."
 
'Before, I Bought Everything'
 Carol Mack, a computer operator who lives in Stamford, is one customer who the mall is seeing more of this season. Overextended and worried about the economy, Mrs. Mack has decided to pay for everything in cash. "Before, I bought everything in sight. I would buy what I wanted and put it on a card," she said, biting off bits of a chocolate as she shopped. "But several stores have almost doubled the interest rates they charge, and it's not worth it."
Mrs. Mack is being more careful about what she buys. "Before, I would have bought a lot of frivolous things, or toys for the kids that they don't really need but are cute anyway. Now, instead of getting a panda, a bunny and a wind-up toy, I'll just buy one."
Another shopper, Joan McGirr, was leaving an eerily quiet Macy's, one of the mall's flagship stores and part of a chain that has been in trouble. "I just went from J. C. Penney to Macy's looking for something for my granddaughter, and as you can see I'm empty handed," Mrs. McGirr said. "I used to spend $32 on little outfits for her, but there just isn't much money around now, and the prices are very high."
It is not usual for stores to have Thanksgiving and pre-Christmas sales, but this year the sales started earlier and will last longer. "The customers are looking for sales rather than walking in and buying without checking the prices," said George Kontaxis, a sales associate at Abercrombie & Fitch.
 
Marked Down Half From $300
 Many store managers interviewed, even those who said that business was good, said they had to try harder to woo customers this year. "People are holding on to their cash a little more than usual," said Diane Vecchiarelli, store manager of the Narragansett, a woman's clothing retailer. "They're waiting to see if things are on sale."
She held up a suede skirt, which used to sell for $300. It had been marked down twice, to $150. "Whereas before people would just buy right away, now they're looking, coming back for a second and third look."
At Gantos, a moderately priced clothing store, huge signs in the windows announce a 25 percent to 40 percent reduction in prices. Suits are on sale: Buy one; get one free. "It's been horrible," said Shawndra Michel, an assistant manager. "People are being more careful. there's not much impulse buying, so we're trying to entice the people to come in, to give them every possible advantage to spend their dollar."
Even the stately Black, Starr and Frost has been forced to hold promotions. It is offering 10-month interest-free loans for customers. And after Thanksgiving, said Mr. Seeman, it plans a major sale, something that has never happened before in the pre-Christmas season.
"Selling three-quarters of a loaf is better than selling all of nothing," Mr. Seeman said.

GRAPHIC: Photo:"Most people don't really want to talk about how bad their business is going," said Stephen J. DeMaria, a manager at Custom Shop Shirtmakers at the Stamford Town Center mall in Connecticut. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (83%); AFT (FRA) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (83%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: STAMFORD TOWN CENTER (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; SALES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; CONSUMERS AND CONSUMPTION ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (84%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TRENDS (74%); THANKSGIVING (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (61%); MEN'S CLOTHING (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



723 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Man Screaming to Satan Held in Mother's Killing

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
A 23-year-old Queens man screaming "Don't worry, I won't die, Satan," stabbed his mother to death and wounded his father with a kitchen knife at a Thanksgiving Day gathering yesterday, the police and neighbors said.
The man, Joseph Bergamini, was arrested on a street corner near his home yesterday afternoon shortly after the police and neighbors rushing to respond to screams found his mother, Kathleen, in the family's kitchen at 109-33 112th Street in Ozone Park. She had been stabbed in the chest, a police spokesman, Sgt. Norris Hollomon, said. Mrs. Bergamini was taken to Jamaica Hospital, where she was pronounced dead in the emergency room. 
 The young man's father, Arthur, was also found in the kitchen, stabbed in the back, Sergeant Hollomon said. He was in serious but stable condition at Jamaica Hospital last night.
The police recovered a carving knife in the kitchen that they believe is the murder weapon.
Sergeant Hollomon said Mr. Bergamini refused to make any statements to investigators about the stabbings. He was being held last night in the 106th Precinct station house on charges of murder and assault.
Just before noon, neighbors said they heard a screaming fight in the apartment. Joseph Guadagno, 19, who lives above the Bergaminis, said his family was watching the Thanksgiving Day parade on television when they suddenly heard a commotion below.
"There was a lot of screaming," he said. "Somebody said 'Stop it! Stop it!' Then I heard 'Don't do it!' Then I heard Joseph yell, 'Don't worry, I won't die, Satan!' "
 
 Daughter Pounds on Door
 Moments later, Mr. Guadagno said, the Bergamini's 25-year-old daughter pounded on his door, rushed in sobbing and called the police, saying her parents had been stabbed. Then he saw Joseph Bergamini run out onto the quiet street of duplexes and single-family houses.
Mr. Guadagno said Mr. Bergamini lived with his parents, his sister and her husband and a younger brother, Michael, who is 19. Joseph was apparently unemployed and habitually stayed out until 1 or 2 A.M. Often he would ring the Guadagnos' doorbell when he came home late, trying to sneak in without waking his parents, who frowned on his late hours, Mr. Guadagno said. "He'd ring our doorbell and say he forgot his keys," he said.
Other neighbors said Mr. Bergamini's father had been a construction worker until he was disabled at least three years ago while waterproofing a roof. His mother worked for a local bank, they said. The couple, in their 50's, were known as friendly people who often entertained neighbors in their backyard.
Some neighbors said Joseph Bergamini had acted erratically in the past. Once he jumped out a front window of the house to escape a loud argument with his parents. At a block party in 1987, neighbors said, Mr. Bergamini violently attacked his younger brother. His mother stepped in between the two and ended the fight, they said.
"He did have a few skirmishes a couple years ago with his younger brother and his mother intervened to protect him," said a neighbor, Matthew Mauser. "His actions may have been a bit abnormal."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;QUEENS (NYC)

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SATANISM MURDER (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); ARRESTS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; BERGAMINI, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



724 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: A Thanksgiving Feast, Under the Highway

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
There was an obvious question to ask Walter Wengert Jr., yesterday: What does a 40-year-old unemployed man living beneath the West Side Highway have to be thankful for? But at noon he was too busy to ponder it. Company was coming for dinner, and he was behind schedule building an oven.
The oven was a rusty old file drawer scavenged from the garbage that he was lining with aluminum foil. It would go on top of the wood fire blazing inside the blue tarpaulin that makes the walls of his home. On the dirt floor nearby were a 13-pound turkey, the ingredients for stuffing and pumpkin pie, sweet potatoes, corn on the cob, biscuits and a cookbook -- also scavenged from the garbage -- titled "Larousse Gastronomique." 
 "I've always loved to cook, but I ain't had much chance to do it the last few years," said Mr. Wengert. "Last Thanksgiving I was living in a parking lot in Chelsea." For the last six months he has been living at the edge of Riverside Park at West 72d Street, next to the entrance of a two-and-a-half-mile railroad tunnel.
The tunnel is home to squatters who sometimes call themselves the Mole People. Several would be emerging for dinner with Mr. Wengert and his neighbors under the highway. The exact number for dinner was uncertain -- one invited guest, for instance, was a possible no-show because he was in hiding after stabbing a man -- but Mr. Wengert was cooking for 10, an unusually large gathering among squatters who like to keep to themselves.
"Normally I don't invite others," Mr. Wengert said. "But a couple of us got the idea of pooling our food stamps for a Thanksgiving feast, and we got plenty of food, so I thought today would be a good day to be cool about it with others that aren't as well off. That's what Thanksgiving's about."
That sentiment was shared by Douglas, 45, one of the squatters, who did not want his children to read his last name. "We'll be glad to give them food," he said of the guests, as he helped Mr. Wengert with preparations. "But they'll have to bring their own plates. We don't have enough to go around."
Dinner preparations had gotten off to late start the night before for a couple of reasons. One was the second jug of wine the men had consumed. The other was a faulty alarm clock, which caused Douglas to miss his 9:30 appointment for his regular job, parking the car of a clerk at the Offtrack Betting Corporation parlor at West 72d Street near Amsterdam Avenue.
 
A Little Last-Minute Shopping
 Douglas responded by beating the alarm clock to death with a log. "I only get angry at inanimate objects, never at people," he said good naturedly, and headed off to forage for firewood in Riverside Park. Mr. Wengert went up to the Gristede's at 263 West 72d Street for some last-minute shopping: raisins, whipped cream, pie-crust mix.
He had to improvise on some things. After deciding that a hammer handle would not make a good rolling pin, he flattened the pie-crust dough by hand. But he had the essentials of a kitchen -- table, cutting board, utensils -- just as he had the essentials of a home: chairs, bed, lanterns, batterpopowered radiand television.
There is no running water, but there are fire hydrants not too far away that provide water for the dozens of squatters on the railroad land and outside and inside the tunnel. Some have built wooden shanties; others have been living for as long as 15 years in cement-block buildings scattered along the length of the tunnel.
 
'The Media Leeches Descended'
 Their secluded life was interrupted this year. An article about the Mole People appeared in The New York Times in June, and soon there were camera crews from American and foreign television networks tromping through the tunnel. "Donahue" inquired about doing an entire program inside the tunnel.
"The media leeches descended," Douglas complained.
Another intrusion has been the new track that Amtrak is laying in the tunnel for its trains from Albany to Pennsylvania Station. In April trains are scheduled to start using the tunnel for the first time in a decade. Officials from Amtrak and the city's Human Resources Administration have been visiting the squatters, telling them they will have to move, and offering to help them relocate.
Many of the squatters, as well as some city and railroad officials, say they doubt that it it will ever be possible to keep people off the railroad land. But the squatters are concerned about the new track, and it was a topic of conversation as the guests watched football on television and Mr. Wengert finished preparing dinner.
"This could be the last Thanksgiving anyone's going to have here," said Douglas. Whatever happened in the spring, he said, he hoped to be gone before then. He said he was planning to enter a treatment program for alcoholism. "Booze is what cost me my last job and apartment," he said.
Mr. Wengert said he was also hoping to be gone soon. A native of the Bronx, he said he had been working steadily in the late 1980's -- as a security guard, bouncer at a topless bar, short-order cook -- while living rent free in the basement of a building in Chelsea run by a friendly superintendent. He lost that home when the building was sold in the summer of 1989.
"Then it was just one bad thing after another," he said. "I lost a job, and then pretty soon everything was gone. I've been out looking, but it's kind of hard to get back up when you're down here.
"But your luck can turn," he said. "I'm planning to get my driver's license, get a job as a courier, save some money and get a floor-refinishing and window-washing business going with my brother."
 
2 Pies and a Good-Looking Turkey
 Mr. Wengert finally got a chance to relax after dark yesterday. The oven had turned out two nicely browned pies and an appetizing turkey. There was stuffing with onions and mushrooms for the turkey, and a topping for the pie with peaches, strawberries, honey and blackberry brandy.
There were eight people, all neighbors, for dinner: seven men and one woman. It was probably one of the more racially diverse Thanksgiving parties in New York, and probably one of the more jovial. The guests brought their own plates. Before eating they considered what there was to be thankful for.
"Life. I think that says it all," Douglas said.
"Health and strength," said Isaiah Laray Davis, 25.
"I'm away from all the racket," said C. Harris, 30. "Away from all the phony people sitting at the table praising things they know they don't live up to."
"It's just another day, that's all," said Mr. Wengert's 37-year-old brother, Thomas, who lives with him.
"No, it's not," Mr. Wengert said to his brother. "This is the first Thanksgiving dinner you and I have had together in 10 years. I'm thankful for that. This is a day you should be with your close friends and family, not at some dinner in a church. When I go to one of those church dinners, I feel like an inmate getting fed. I'd rather go back to jail.
"Today I got to make all this good stuff and everyone will have something to enjoy. I got a lot of good people around me. We ain't in Penn Station, we ain't in a parking lot, we ain't sleeping in a cement truck somewhere. It's a great, beautiful day."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Wengert Jr., who lives under the West Side Highway, serving turkey to his brother, Thomas, right, and C. Harris. "I've always loved to cook, but I ain't had much chance to do it the last few years," he said. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Walter Wengert Jr., a homeless man who lives under the West Side Highway, using aluminum foil to transform an old file drawer into a makeshift oven to cook a Thanksgiving dinner for his guests. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; WEST SIDE (NYC)

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING DAY; HOMELESS PERSONS THANKSGIVING (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (65%); 

PERSON: WENGERT, WALTER JR; TIERNEY, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



725 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Visiting U.S. Troops in the Desert, President Talks Tough About Iraq

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Soaring across eastern Saudi Arabia today on a whirlwind Thanksgiving tour of the troops, President Bush suggested that there was an imminent threat of Iraq's acquiring nuclear weapons and told a group of marines that they "may well" be the ones to drive President Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait.
As he flew in his Marine helicopter into the Saudi desert and onto an amphibious assault ship in the Persian Gulf, Mr. Bush warned Mr. Hussein: "Free the hostages, all the hostages. Free them today or you'll pay the price." 
 "We won't pull punches," he said at a Marine outpost less than 80 miles from the border of occupied Kuwait. "We are not here on some exercise. This is a real-world situation. And we are not walking away until the invader is out of Kuwait." [Excerpts, page A16.]
 
Security Is Very Tight
 Then, as scores of American marines and British Desert Rat tank troops cheered, Mr. Bush said, "That may well be where you come in."
Security was even tighter than usual. F-15 fighter-interceptors screamed aloft from Dhahran to escort Air Force One, while Awacs surveillance planes circled far overhead to watch for Iraqi aircraft. Helicopters with 50-caliber machine guns accompanied Mr. Bush's unarmed helicopter, and as he spoke in the desert, a German-made vehicle capable of detecting chemical, nuclear or biological attack stood guard.
Like all those who accompanied him, Mr. Bush was issued a gas mask and given instructions on how to put it on, within 9 seconds, if a gas attack occurred.
 
Bush Waits in Line
 The President waded eagerly into the enthusiastic crowds of soldiers, reveling in their cheers, rhythmic grunts and whistles, and waited in line with them at the Army outpost for a lunch of turkey roll and mashed potatoes.
Mr. Bush, who said tonight that it had been "an emotional day" for him, told American servicemen and women that he had acted "with restraint and patience." But he said, "Saddam Hussein is making the mistake of his life if he confuses an abundance of restraint with a lack of resolve."
He did not say exactly what course he had in mind, to the disappointment of many who heard him speak. But throughout the day he groped for ways to bolster domestic support for the gulf operation and hold together the international alliance against Mr. Hussein at a time when the United States fears that the Iraqi leader is not taking the danger of military action seriously. Mr. Bush is also seeking United Nations authorization for the use of force should he decide to go to war.
He referred indirectly to those efforts today.
"We've gone to the United Nations, time and time again," he said. "I'm prepared to go another time. We still hope for a peaceful settlement, but the world is a dangerous place, and we must make all of these options credible. Those in uniform, it seems to me, will always bear the heaviest burden."
He repeated familiar themes during the day: economic security, the need to oppose aggression and the threat to American diplomats and other "innocent lives." And he often did so with the same passionless phrases and intellectual policy arguments that have drawn assertions that he is not adequately explaining the mission in the gulf.
 
A More Ominous Tone
 But as the day wore on and the President moved from Air Force to Army to Navy and then Marine units around eastern Saudi Arabia, he began striking what White House officials said was a deliberately more ominous tone toward Iraq. He came closer than he ever has before to a direct threat of war and added a significant new element to his oratory: a heavy emphasis on the danger that Mr. Hussein might soon acquire atomic weapons.
"Those who would measure the timetable for Saddam Hussein's atomic weapons program in years may be underestimating the reality of the situation and the gravity of that threat," Mr. Bush said at the Marine outpost in his fourth and toughest speech of the day.
"No one knows precisely when this dictator may acquire atomic weapons or who they may be aimed at down the road," he said. "But we do know this for sure: He has never possessed a weapon that he hasn't used."
Administration officials have been saying for some time that Mr. Hussein, who has used poison gases against the Iranian military and against his own citizens, might develop atomic weapons in less than two years. They said today that there was no new evidence indicating that might occur sooner.
Some other international nuclear experts have said that Iraq could probably make one fairly crude but very dangerous bomb relatively quickly, but that it could probably start manufacturing nuclear warheads only in about 10 years.
 
Nuclear Argument Favored
 Recent public opinion surveys have suggested that eliminating the potential threat of Iraqi nuclear weapons is a powerful argument with the Americans questioned for going to war against Iraq, while the other goals Mr. Bush has outlined for his gulf policy are not as effective.
So Mr. Bush included the theme in three of his four speeches, starting at the Dhahran air base, where he spoke in front of an F-16 fighter-bomber, an F-15 fighter interceptor and an A-10 anti-tank bomber. He steadily strengthened his message as he went to an Army outpost 80 miles from here, to the assault ship Nassau in the gulf and to the Marine outpost.
The President began his speeches with one-liners.
"Hey listen, thanks for that warm desert welcome -- and I mean warm," he said at the Army post, where he arrived in his helicopter, Marine One, amid a swirl of desert sand and a phalanx of armed guards, aides and television cameras.
"Now look, look," he said, sounding for all the world like a stand-up comic. "We know that the days can get pretty long out here, and you'll be glad to know that if it goes on too long we have a secret weapon in reserve. If push comes to shove, we're going to get Roseanne Barr to go to Iraq and sing the national anthem."
 
President Seems Tired
 As he worked the crowds, Mr. Bush seemed clearly tired from the grueling schedule he has kept since he left Washington last Friday on a seven-day, seven-nation tour that is scheduled to end Friday in Cairo and Geneva.
And as he waited for his lunch, he seemed somewhat subdued. Marlin Fitzwater, Mr. Bush's spokesman, said: "He's moved by these kids. He talked to them, and they're all so fresh and bright and young."
The President wore a blue work shirt open at the collar and rolled up at the sleeves, khaki slacks and desert boots, with a floppy desert camouflage hat that he kept tucked in his back pocket. He was accompanied by his wife, Barbara, who wore a brown camouflage jacket.
The four leaders of Congress trailed along: the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley; the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell; and the minority leaders of the Senate and House, Bob Dole and Robert H. Michel.
 
Bush Mixes Freely
 Despite the tight security, the President mixed relatively freely with the troops, hopping down from the stage in Dhahran to shake the hands of the Americans in the audience. A group of Saudi airmen stood in an isolated knot within the crowd.
At the Army outpost, Mr. Bush came out of the food line to be greeted by Second Lieut. Emiciades Alcon, 23 years old, of Fort Benning, Ga., who said, "Thank you, sir, for showing up here in the desert."
Mr. Bush said, "That's what Woody Allen said: 'Ninety percent of life is showing up.' "
The pool of reporters who accompanied Mr. Bush said that the troops he met were generally enthusiastic and that there were none of the embarrassing offers of hot drinking water that marred an earlier visit by Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d.
"I didn't expect him to come out here," said Sgt. Kevin Schuler, a marine from Grand Forks, N.D., aboard the Nassau. "But he's here. That's cool."
Sgt. Clyde L. Williams, 27, of Forestville, Md., said, "It makes me feel he at least took the time to come and see us and that he cares."
 
5,000 Hear Him Speak
 Some soldiers grumbled that Mr. Bush had not seen more troops. Officials estimated that 5,000 to 6,000 heard him speak at his four quick stops today.
Pvt. Richard Alcivar, 20, of Brooklyn, an Army Scout, said: "After all, he sent us here. Some thought he ought to have seen more of us."
But the more common complaint was that Mr. Bush did not bring any concrete news for men and women who have waited -- some for three months -- in the heat and uncertainty of the desert wondering if they would go to war with Iraq or be sent home.
"We're hoping we get some news from the President," said Capt. Joseph O'Donnell, an Army officer from Avon by the Sea, N.J. "We hope he's got a date."
For war or to go home?
"Either one," the captain said.
 
Bush Arrives in Cairo
 CAIRO, Nov. 22 -- President Bush arrived tonight for an overnight stay in Cairo, where he will confer with President Hosni Mubarak before flying to Geneva for talks with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his wife, Barbara, in a camouflage uniform, waving to American marines and British tank troops at a Marine outpost in Saudi Arabia, about 80 miles from the border of occupied Kuwait.(Reuters) (pg. A1); Pfc. Johnny Greenfield of Anacortes, Wash., foreground, and Lance Cpl. James Ballard of Statesville, N.C., were among the mariens who ate their Thanksgiving meal while on patrol in the eastern Saudi desert. (Reuters); map: Saudi Arabia (The New York Times) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (97%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ ; KUWAIT ; PERSIAN GULF; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY PERSONNEL; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; NAVIES; THANKSGIVING DAY; HOSTAGES; ATOMIC WEAPONS ; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); HELICOPTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); THANKSGIVING (89%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); NAVIES (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (66%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUSH, BARBARA (MRS GEORGE BUSH) ; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); MICHEL, ROBERT H (REPR); FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER); MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



726 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Are Nervous About Rapid Spread Of 2-for-1 Fare Deal

BYLINE: By ERIC WEINER

 BODY:
What began as a small promotion offered by one airline to a small group of customers has grown into a nationwide giveaway that has delighted tens of thousands of passengers but is hurting the industry and infuriating travel agents.
Earlier this month, American Airlines mailed coupons to members of its frequent-flier plan in Chicago, offering them a chance, on certain routes, to buy a second ticket for $50 on flights for which they had purchased excursion fares. When other airlines learned of the offer, they matched the promotion, then went one better. Within days, the nation's large airlines were all offering a companion ticket without charge to people who bought a round-trip ticket at the most inexpensive advance-purchase fares. 
 The promotion is one of the most aggressive in years and all the more striking for its timing, as the industry enters what is normally a prosperous holiday travel season.
After years of record-breaking growth in the numbers of passengers during the Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year holiday season, the airlines are predicting no increases this year. And whether they make or lose money through the new promotion, they are clearly demonstrating that their highest priority is to keep their share of the market out of the hands of their rivals.
Only a limited number of seats are available on any given flight in the companion-ticket promotion. The airlines do not disclose how many seats are made available under the offer, nor does the law require them to set aside a minimum number.
Under the promotion, a passenger flying between New York and San Francisco on Trans World Airlines can pay $428 for a round-trip ticket and receive a second one without charge. The average cost per person: only $214.
The latest promotions, like many before them, represent a guessing game by the airlines. In offering a two-for-one fare, will the airlines attract enough business to offset the loss of income from customers who would have flown without the special incentive? Airline executives can never be certain, but they feel they must follow their competitors' promotions to avoid losing market share.
The number of miles flown by paying passengers has grown 1.8 percent this year, but the number of available seats has increased 6 percent as planes ordered years ago are now entering service.
Add the sharp increases in fuel prices as a result of the Persian Gulf crisis, and the industry is expected to lose more than $1 billion this year.
Given the problems facing the industry, some analysts and travel agents question the wisdom of the current offer.
Indeed, at least one airline, Continental Airlines, acknowledges that it will lose money on the promotion, which is generally valid for travel through Feb. 28. "This isn't something that I want to do," said John Nelson, executive vice president of marketing for Continental Airlines, which has aggressively advertised the companion tickets. "If this happened a year ago, I'm not sure our reaction would have been the same." At that time, airlines were not under as much pressure from slower traffic, higher fuel costs and tighter economic times.
 
 Many Restrictions
 The promotional fares carry many restrictions, including a requirement that the tickets be bought at least seven days in advance. The offer is not valid during certain "blackout" dates during the holiday season, and tickets must be purchased by Nov. 30.
Travel agents are angry because they make no commission on the free tickets and sometimes have to return parts of commissions when tickets are reissued at a lower fare. "You have to write the ticket three or four times to make nine bucks," said Richard Copland, president of Hillside Travel in New York.
The travel agents also complain that the airlines have made too few free seats available. They spend a fair amount of time, they say, trying to make reservations on flights for which the offer is not available.
"It's driving us absolutely crazy," said David Perelman, president of D.M.S. Travel Group in New York.
 
 Hungry for a Bargain
 But the airlines insist that they have allocated no fewer seats for this promotion than any other. They suggest that fewer seats may be available because consumers are hungry for a bargain. Citing higher fuel costs, the airlines have raised fares three times since August. Domestic fares have risen at least 10 percent and fares for international flights have risen as much as 16 percent. "There is definitely sticker shock out there," said Mr. Nelson of Continental Airlines.
Northwest Airlines' reservation-call volume rose 23 percent since its promotion began, said Robert Gibbons, a spokesman. "It was computer meltdown," he said. Other airlines report a similar response.
The companion-ticket promotion snowballed in the past few days as each airline sought to better its competition's offer and no airline was willing to stop the momentum. Midway Airlines, for instance, was the first to make the offer available to the general public, not just members of a frequent-flier program. On Monday, Northwest Airlines eliminated the $25 charge for companion tickets.
Even American Airlines, which began the promotion, said that in retrospect it might have been a mistake. "We never expected it to go this far," said an executive at American who spoke on the condition that he not be identified.
 
 'A Ridiculous Level'
 Gail Ruderman, president of Ruderman Travel in Trenton, N.J., also questioned the wisdom of the promotion. "We don't think it makes an awful lot of sense," she said. "The airlines complain about massive losses, and then they reduce a fare to a ridiculous level."
But it is those very losses, the airlines argue, that incite them to offer the generous giveaways, which are aimed at stimulating travel during the normally slow winter months. "People may have it in their brain that there is no sense taking a trip," said Mr. Gibbons of Northwest. "You make no money with an empty seat."
Lee Howard, chairman of Airline Economics, a consulting firm in Washington, said: "It shouldn't be any surprise. It's a highly competitive environment out there."
 
 Weaker Airlines Will Suffer
 Still, some industry analysts said the giveaways will only weaken the industry's already feeble financial pulse. "This is something the industry can live without," said Kevin Murphy, an analyst with Morgan Stanley.
Mr. Murphy said that while financially sound airlines, like American and United, can afford to give away seats, weaker ones like T.W.A. and Pan Am will be hard hit by the promotion.
There is already mounting evidence that a recession -- or at least the fear of one -- is beginning to discourage travel. The airlines predict they will carry nine million passengers during the Thanksgiving holiday, marking the second consecutive year of stable traffic -- with no growth. And after a steady 1 or 2 percent monthly increase in passengers for most of the last 12 months, the number of passengers in October dropped slightly, said Tim Neale, spokesman for the Air Transport Association, the industry trade group.
Top executives from most of the major airlines met with Samuel K. Skinner, Secretary of Transportation, earlier this month and warned that without Federal assistance to bring down jet-fuel prices, several carriers could fold in the next few months. Some airline executives are calling on President Bush to release more of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, designating some of the supply for jet fuel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%); INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES; ADVERTISING; DISCOUNT SELLING AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); MARKET SHARE (87%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); THANKSGIVING (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: WEINER, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



727 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
The Milken Sentence
Michael Milken's lawyers could not have determined that he would be sentenced to a prison term as long as 10 years. Based on information compiled by the U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan, the term fell outside the boundaries of any of the more than 75 sentences handed down against white-collar criminals on Wall Street in the last decade. [Page D1.]
Judge Kimba Wood said in her sentencing that she wanted to send a message. Whether they view Mr. Milken as a hero, a villain or a scapegoat, a variety of people contacted afterward said the judge's message came through loud and clear. [D4.]
 
The Economy
What began as a small promotion by American Airlines to an exclusive group of customers has escalated into a nationwide giveaway. The nation's large airlines are offering free tickets to the traveling companions of all comers, delighting passengers but cutting into industry profits and infuriating travel agents. [A1.]
The Bush Administration has drafted an ambitious plan for expanding highway construction, broadening the network of major national roads, providing incentives to reduce congestion and allowing states to charge tolls on more highways. [A1.]
 
Companies
Two of the world's biggest deal makers are behaving as if mergers had not fallen by nearly half and that the "junk bond" market had not collapsed. Forstmann Little and Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts are trying to persuade pension funds and other big investors to replenish their coffers so they can buy more companies. [D1.]
Brooks Brothers has stuck with tradition, in the clothes it sells and how it sells them, even though its sales have slumped. [D1.]
Suspects in the abduction of John F. Grundhofer, chief executive of First Bank System in Minneapolis, include disgruntled former employees and rejected borrowers. He was released after two hours. [A33.]
The Miami City Commission has approved an ordinance requiring the police to report drug arrests to employers. [B21.]
 
International
One of Italy's industrial titans resigned unexpectedly as chairman of Ferruzzi Finanziaria, the country's second-largest private company. Raul Gardini, who has been emboiled in a dispute with a state-owned energy company, said he would leave the business world for "ideological reasons." [D1.]
A new airport going up in western Japan has become the focus of an angry dispute between the U.S. and Japan over the failure of an American-German venture to win a big contract. [D1.]
Argentina's privatization program took a big step forward with the transfer of control of the national airline, Aerolineas Argentinas, to a group led by Iberia, the Spanish carrier. [D1.]
 
Markets
Britain's markets closed virtually unchanged, although they rose sharply after Margaret Thatcher announced she would resign as Prime Minister. Most other European trading was subdued. U.S. markets were closed for the Thanksgiving holiday. [D6.]
 
Today's Columns
Bankers fear that unless a banking crisis is prevented, the economic slowdown could become the most severe postwar recession. The Treasury Secretary urges banks to keep lending, and the Fed insists it is well aware of the dangers of a banking crisis and has plans for dealing with one. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
The sputtering recreational vehicle industry needs a vacation. Slumping demand has forced companies to close plants and slash earnings projections. Market Place. [D6.]
Ayer has created a public service campaign about the homeless that has failed to attract a sponsor. Kim Foltz: Advertising. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (92%); JAPAN (91%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (66%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); AEROLINEAS ARGENTINAS (50%); 

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); BONDS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); AIRPORTS (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (67%); THANKSGIVING (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%); TRAVEL AGENTS (53%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (51%); PENSION FUNDS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



728 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:
International A3-19
Prime Minister Thatcher resigned, ending an extraordinary era in British politics. Her decision surprised but relieved members of the Conservative Party. A successor will be chosen next week. Page A1
The men vying to replace Margaret Thatcher A12
News analysis: Mrs. Thatcher's gift was her persuasive arrogance. Anybody who agreed with her policies was "One of Us." Anybody who did not was "wet." A1
News of Mrs. Thatcher's resignation stunned Europe but raised hopes that Britain, under a new leader, would drop its opposition to the integration of Europe. A14
The presidential campaign in Poland has embraced many of the external trappings of democracy -- from bumper stickers to opinion polls to last-minute mudslinging. All it lacks is national political parties. A3
Protesters of austerity plan surround Bulgaria's Parliament A3
President Bush went to Saudi Arabia and said there was an imminent threat Iraq would acquire nuclear weapons. "We won't pull punches," he told a group of Marines. "We are not here on some exercise." A1
Western hostages being held in Iraq as so-called human shields were taken to Baghdad for a surreal Thanksgiving feast, complete with turkey and the trimmings. A16
Reporter's Notebook: Homesick, and bitter, and proud A18
Britain plans to send 14,000 more troops to Gulf A17
Yemen rebuffs Secretary of State Baker's initiative A18
Soviet-Chinese talks may focus on using force against Iraq A19
Fate of hostages in Beirut linked to four missing Iranians A11
Coup attempt in black South African homeland is put down A9
Is Emperor Akihito a "living god"? The final act of the Emperor's accession to the throne has renewed the dispute over his divinity and his role in modern Japan. A7
Afghanistan's leader and a rebel foe meet as fighting increases A8
La Escobilla Journal: The fight for endangered sea turtles A4
 
 National A22-35, B16-21
An ambitious five-year highway plan has been drafted by the Bush Administration. The plan would broaden the network of national roads, offer incentives to reduce congestion and allow tolls on more highways. A1
A limited bargain on airline tickets by American Airlines has turned into an industrywide giveaway. Passengers are delighted; but the airlines will probably lose money. A1
Did Michael Milken's lawyers misplay their legal hand? D1
Two buyout firms are seeking billions to build new funds D1
A vocal Roman Catholic theologian who lost a teaching job at Catholic University because of his differences with the Vatican has been denied tenure at Auburn University. A22
California's Copper Bowl bid in Arizona is criticized B16
Protesters are dogging hunters, trying to dissuade them from their pursuit. In some cases, animal rights groups have obstructed hunters and scared away the game. A22
The search for a missing family ended nearly eight weeks after theircar crashed into a river, even though the car was spotted three times. The delay has led to charges of racism by the Illinois state police. A23
The kidnapping of a bank executive in Minneapolis this week may have been committed by former employees or rejected borrowers angry with the executive's revamping of the bank, investigators said. A33
Philadelphia might get money from its pension fund A24
Puerto Rican officials say they may delay referendum A27
Former chairman is elected leader of the Navajo Nation B21
A virus similar to the AIDS virus has been discovered. Researchers say the microbe, only the third human retrovirus ever found, may be linked to diseases of the immune system. A29
The largest stretch of virgin prairie left in northeast Kansas disappeared under the plow after futile attempts by the Nature Conservancy and local environmentalists to buy it. B18
Expert says the U.S. faces an acute water shortageB18
New Orleans Journal: A communal blast from the past A22
 
 Regional B1-14
The mid-rise apartment building, which has fallen out of favor over the last three decades, is making a comeback. Developers and city planners say it may be the answer to New York City's housing shortage. A1
Efforts to transform a welfare hotel in Manhattan into a model residence for homeless people are still incomplete, even though New York City has spent more than $10 million and worked two years on the project. B1
Innovative plan for the homeless divides advocates B14
Thanksgiving beneath a highway? Walter Wenger Jr., a 40-year-old man living in a tunnel under the West Side Highway, prepared a traditional holiday feast for 10 of his neighbors, known as the Mole People. A1
After a long fight, a bit of Queens becomes a wildlife park B3
Carnegie makes gift of archives to Columbia University B8 New York City's recycling police are walking the beat in neighborhoods where the city's 19-month-old mandatory recycling law has taken effect, handing out warnings and even fines to violators. B1
Dispute over computer voting machines enters final phase B5
Report says New York City hospitals need more money B10
Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade gave a Texas drill team the chance to get a look at New York City and New Yorkers a chance to get a look at a Texas drill team. B1
Man screaming to Satan is arrested in mother's killing B3
Hispanic inspector will check claim of police favoritism B11
Shopping malls are gloomy this year. The crisis in the Middle East, budget deficits and a sense that the economy is poised for a downturn have sobered shoppers just as the Christmas season arrives. B1
 
Business Digest D1
 
 Weekend
The Red menace on film C1
TV comics and their idols C1
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
Daugherty and Field C3
Film: At the Movies C8
"Mr. and Mrs. Bridge" C1
Music: Dutoit conducts C18
Jazz by Queen Bey C26
Heart Throbs from Britain C34
Dance: New York City Ballet C3
Art: Eric Fischl's visions of India C4
Otterness's wicked world C4
Boetti's playfulness C24
Attack masters and mastery C29
Auctions C17
Restaurants C22
Word and Image: A novel in a Woolfian mode C32
TV Weekend C36
 
 Law Page B23
At the Bar
A lament: too few interesting law articles
Obituaries D9
 
 Charles Lehman, headed interior designers group Sports
Baseball: Vincent clears Yankee executive D12
Basketball: Old rivals meet in N.I.T. D11
Nets' slide continues D13
N.B.A. Notebook D13
Column: Vecsey on tall Raider fans D11
Football: Cowboys top Redskins D11
Lions beat Broncos D12
Banks aims for 49ers D11
Hockey: Islanders defeat Jets D12
N.H.L. Notebook D12
Soccer: U.S. players go to Europe D13
 
 Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials A36
After Mrs. Thatcher
A way to control crime
Mary Cantwell: Homes
Letters A36
Anthony Lewis: No thanks A37
A. M. Rosenthal: Park Avenue Lady A37
Adam Michnik: Why I won't vote for Lech Walesa A37
Paula Kamen: Feminism, a dirty word A37

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); BULGARIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (75%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); RELIGION (88%); AIRLINES (84%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (83%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); COUPS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); THANKSGIVING (65%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (62%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (60%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%); TRAVEL TICKETS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MICHAEL MILKEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



729 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: CHANGE IN BRITAIN;
THATCHER SAYS SHE'LL QUIT; 11 1/2 YEARS AS PRIME MINISTER ENDED BY PARTY CHALLENGE

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Her leadership of the Conservative Party slipping away, Margaret Thatcher announced today that she would resign as Prime Minister as soon as a new leader was elected next week, ending an extraordinary era in British politics that lasted 11 1/2 years.
Her immediate successor will be one of three men: Michael Heseltine, the 57-year-old former Defense Minister; Douglas Hurd, 60, the Foreign Secretary, or John Major, 47, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. 
 It was Mr. Heseltine who broke Mrs. Thatcher's hold on the leadership by winning the votes of 152 of the 372 Conservative members of Parliament in an initial leadership ballot on Tuesday. Mr. Hurd and Mr. Major entered the race today after the 65-year-old Prime Minister withdrew from the second ballot.
The winner will be chosen either by a simple majority in the second ballot next Tuesday, or, if none of the three wins a majority then, in a runoff ballot next Thursday.
 
Surprise and Relief
 Mrs. Thatcher's resignation was greeted with surprise and sadness, but by wide relief in the ranks of her divided party. The immediate cause of the split was her resistance to European economic and political union, but the roots of discontent lay in her combative personality and leadership tactics.
The leader of the opposition Labor Party, Neil Kinnock, said the news was "good, very, very good indeed" and called again for an immediate general election that public opinion polls say Labor would easily win if it were held now. The no-confidence motion by which Labor sought to force snap elections was defeated tonight by a vote of 367 to 247, but general elections must be held by mid-1992.
Abroad, many government officials paid warm tribute to her leadership. President Bush, in Saudi Arabia, described her as an "outstanding ally for the United States" and said he would miss her personally. But in much of Europe her resignation was taken as a hopeful sign that the pace of European unification would quicken. [Page A14.]
Iraq's Information Minister said she had "lost her party, her job and even her reputation" even as her Government announced that it would send 14,000 more British troops to the Persian Gulf as part of the allied effort to force Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait. As part of a vigorous defense of her policies in the House of Commons debate on Mr. Kinnock's no-confidence motion this afternoon, Mrs. Thatcher warned that the time was "fast approaching" for "more decisive action" against Iraq.
The manner of Mrs. Thatcher's going was as extraordinary as her long career. The Prime Minister who led Britain to victory in the war to recapture the Falkland Islands from Argentina in 1982, who only a year and a half ago was unchallenged, universally respected and prepared to go "on and on," was being disavowed by her own party even as Britain prepared for a much larger war in the Persian Gulf.
"It's a funny old world," aides reported her saying to the hushed Cabinet meeting at 10 Downing Street this morning at which she announced her decision, "that here I have won a majority but feel I have to go."
But she put her feelings behind her and put on a game performance in Parliament this afternoon, after going to Buckingham Palace to inform Queen Elizabeth II of her decision to resign.
 
Self-Confident in Parliament
 In the debate in the Commons the Prime Minister displayed her usual combativeness and self-confidence, but was relaxed enough to let her sense of humor show, though she sounded hoarse and tired.
When a Labor member suggested that she might now become Governor of the Bank of England, she said, "What a good idea!" In that position, she said, she could prevent the independent central European bank and single European currency that she so vigorously opposes as an intrusion into British national sovereignty.
"I'm enjoying this, I'm enjoying this," she said, though it seemed doubtful that she was.
After hearing the conflicting advice of friends, party leaders, and Cabinet ministers who came to the Prime Minister's residence at No. 10 Downing Street on Wednesday night to advise her, she decided early this morning to resign, going back on earlier pledges to fight on to victory.
 
Released at 9:34 A.M.
 "A whole range of Cabinet ministers said, 'Look, we don't think you're going to win, and it would be better if you didn't run,' " said Sir Norman Fowler, a former Cabinet minister himself. It was known that Mrs. Thatcher's support among Conservative legislators was eroding, but it was not known whether she saw this as merely an ominous trend or whether a tally by her aides actually showed Mr. Heseltine winning the vote.
Mrs. Thatcher reached her decision at 7:30 this morning, aides said, and then informed her Cabinet. The announcement was released to a stunned British public at 9:34 this morning.
"The Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon. Margaret Thatcher, F.R.S., has informed the Queen that she does not intend to contest the second ballot of the election for leadership of the Conservative Party and intends to resign as Prime Minister as soon as a new leader of the Conservative Party has been elected," it said.
Appended was a personal statement by Mrs. Thatcher: "Having consulted widely among colleagues, I have concluded that the unity of the party and the prospect of victory in a general election would be better served if I stood down to enable Cabinet colleagues to enter the ballot for the leadership. I should like to thank all those in Cabinet and outside who have given me such dedicated support."
The news filled the radio and television airways all day and was even relayed to riders on the London Underground by intercom. They took the news in silence. Later a small crowd gathered outside the gates to Downing Street, and some people brought bouquets and wreaths of flowers.
 
Caretaker Prime Minister
 A few hours later, now as caretaker Prime Minister, Mrs. Thatcher appeared in the House of Commons to argue against the Labor Party's call for immediate elections and to hear many allies and opponents alike pay tribute to her courage, though most also said that she had done the right thing by deciding to go.
Though her departure seemed tragic to old friends like Lord William Whitelaw, her first Home Secretary, it was sadly deserved in the view of many, former allies and opponents, who had felt the sting of her sharp tongue in Cabinet meetings and parliamentary debates over the last decade.
"Those who live by the sword shall perish by the sword," said Lord Callaghan, who as James Callaghan became Labor Prime Minister in 1976 after Harold Wilson stepped down as that party's leader, the last time a British Prime Minister resigned as a result of discontent within the governing party.
Mr. Heseltine, who walked out of Mrs. Thatcher's Cabinet as Defense Minister five years ago, was determined to unseat her partly because of the way he said she had steamrolled him in Government debates. He made his move against her last week after a wounded former friend of the Prime Minister, Sir Geoffrey Howe, resigned as Deputy Prime Minister and denounced her hostile attitude to Europe in a House of Commons speech that many viewed as his revenge on her for removing him as Foreign Secretary in July of 1989, for urging her too hard to accede to European monetary union.
Mr. Heseltine is widely seen as the front-runner to win next week, because of his success in getting 152 votes in the first round. He will need 187 votes, a majority, to win in the second round next Tuesday. If no one gets a majority, a third ballot would be held next Thursday, in which Conservative legislators would be asked to select first- and second-choice candidates from among the three. If no candidate receives a majority of first-choice ballots, the weakest candidate will be dropped and the next Prime Minister will be decided on the strength of second-choice support for the two survivors.
Mr. Hurd and Mr. Major, Thatcher supporters in the first-round vote, made clear today that they had entered the contest to try to stop Mr. Heseltine.
 
Attack From Kinnock
 "We have decided to let both our names go forward in friendly contest so that our party colleagues who take the decision can choose which of us is better placed to unite the party," they said in a joint statement. But separately, each said he had the best chance of doing so, and it was not clear whether their candidacies would weaken support for Mr. Heseltine or merely divide opposition to him.
In today's debate in Parliament on the no-confidence motion, the 48-year-old Mr. Kinnock, who would become Prime Minister if Labor won, attacked the Conservative Government's divisions on Europe and catalogued a long list of Conservative failures: an inflation rate of 10.9 percent; the "community charge," an unpopular new head tax for local government services; rising unemployment, and cuts in public spending for social benefits.
"What a record! Eleven oil-rich years, with a recession at each end and a miracle in between," he said. "How can anyone have confidence in a Government with Cabinet ministers who in the last week have been privately telling the press that the Prime Minister is finished and then minutes later supporting her position in the television studios or going off to a private meeting in order to contrive the coup against the Prime Minister?"
"In a democracy," he said, "there is only one fitting conclusion to today's events -- a general election."
 
Thatcher Defends Herself
 Mrs. Thatcher, rising to her own defense with Tory ranks doing their best to try to support her, looked back to the situation she said she had inherited from a Labor Government when she won her first election on May 4, 1979.
"Eleven years ago we rescued Britain from the parlous state to which socialism had brought it," she said. "Once again Britain stands tall in the councils of Europe and of the world. Over the last decade, we have given power back to the people on an unprecedented scale. We have given back control to people over their own lives and over their livelihoods, over the decisions that matter most to them and their families. We have done it by curbing the monopoly power of trade unions to control, even victimize the individual worker.
"We have been the driving force behind the single market," she said, referring to the European Community's decision to drop all internal trade and tariff barriers by the end of 1992. "With all this we have never hesitated to stand up for Britain's interests."
"They want a Europe of subsidies, a Europe of socialist restrictions, a Europe of protectionism," she said of the Labor Party. "They want it because that's how they would like to run, or is it to ruin, this country."
Even on Europe, she did not retreat a single inch. But Europe was the issue that finally brought her down.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher leaving 10 Downing Street yesterday on her way to Parliament. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (53%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (66%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (62%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN); WHITNEY, CRAIG R; KINNOCK, NEIL (MP); MAJOR, JOHN (CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER); HURD, DOUGLAS; HESELTINE, MICHAEL ; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



730 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: Tom Otterness's Wicked World of Human and Beastly Folly

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRENSON

 BODY:
With his commission for the north park of Battery Park City, Tom Otterness has reached a new plateau. The opportunity to make sculptures for children and adults to live with in a public space has helped him focus the playful, sinister and allegorical impulses of his work. It has also enabled him to give his tiny Jiminy Cricket-like people and his menagerie of exotic or mundane animals a narrative and a home. His bronze sculptures at the Brooke Alexander Gallery in SoHo are like a fable about desire, curiosity and folly.
In the gallery's main room, which presents many of the sculptures that will be installed in the Battery Park City playground in 1992 (the north park, at the end of Chambers Street, is still being built), the variety of creatures from fairy tale and myth is startling. So is the range of influences -- from Egyptian, African and Renaissance art to natural history and anthropology -- that are evident in the four sketchbooks lying open on stands in front of two park benches, inviting perusal. 
 Mr. Otterness is at his best when he is carried along by the imagining and modeling (in clay) of his figures. He can still run into trouble when his work is overtly allegorical. It is understandable that he would feel the need to include within his work a recognition of the obsession with money and power in the Battery Park City and Wall Street area. But "Fat Cat and Rats," which associates the church and banking with rattiness and greed, and "Nero Apartment House," in which Nero as Humpty Dumpty fiddles as his house filled with coins is pulled down, are a bit heavy-handed.
Most of Mr. Otterness's Battery Park City project, however, looks like an unqualified success. The sculptures will bring to this Hudson River site a community of frogs, sprouting "alien" tadpoles or locked in combat like sumo wrestlers. One friendly frog sits in front of the benches, watching over them. Nearby, and just as unexpected, is a turtle whose head -- a grasshopper still wedged in its mouth -- is detached from its body, as if it had been lopped off by the scythe of the reaper of death sitting atop a nearby lamppost. Throughout the Battery Park City installation, there is a sense of the good will, paranoia and mayhem of New York.
Much of what happens in this room is interrelated. "Food Chain" shows a big cat, low to the ground, haunches tensed, ready to pounce on a bird with woman's breasts that has tracked down a giant worm that is looking at the bird and sticking out its tongue. Alongside this chain of predation is a bulldog chained to a water fountain, champing at the bit at the sight of the cat. In Mr. Otterness's world, just about everything is observing and being observed. In much of Mr. Otterness's work, humans and animals are slobbering slaves to desire.
Two creatures preside over this Battery Park City fable. The only one who sees everything, but who is not being seen, is the small reaper, atop the lamppost, looking at his watch, symbol of the thriving harvest of death in New York at night.
The other creature is ridiculous but no less inescapable. The nearly three-foot-tall dodo is the largest animal in the show. Its wings are stumpy, useless. Its body is like a globe. Its egg is like a grenade. It stands at attention like a general observing his troops. Mr. Otterness's dodo is like an aviary Edsel, or like an emblem of military folly, misplaced pride and a spectacularly expensive aircraft that can barely get off the ground.
Mr. Otterness's belief that there are two ineradicable sides of human nature -- one noble and inspiring, the other foolish and bestial -- is unmistakable in two sculptures in the show that were not made for Battery Park City. "Neanderthal II" is the bust of an ape-man who is both musclebound brute and doubting spirit. "Neanderthal I" is the same man as modern warrior -- a relative of the gas-masked soldiers of Otto Dix -- or as futuristic robot.
Mr. Otterness clearly believes the prehistoric side of the human animal will be every bit as strong in the future as it has been in the past. These sculptures, like his work as a whole, have several sides, none easily compatible with the others. Mr. Otterness's feeling for human nature may not be particularly encouraging, but he is always trying to understand what the human animal is, and he is getting better and better at communicating his sense of fun, fear and surprise.
 The sculptures of Tom Otterness remain at the Brooke Alexander Gallery, 59 Wooster Street, through next Friday.
 
Joel Shapiro
Paula Cooper Gallery
155 Wooster Street
Through Dec. 1
 Joel Shapiro's new work moves in several directions at once. His vocabulary remains simple, even childlike, in its dependence on unadorned, elongated rectangular blocks, sometimes standing on spindly legs, always organized into constructions suggestive of elementary actions, like walking. In one large polychrome work, Mr. Shapiro evokes, with characteristic economy, a figure leaning way back, or striding vigorously forward, bearing a cross, or twirling its arms in celebration and relief.
Throughout the show, however, there is the sense of an artist experimenting with new ideas, moving shapes around, testing out balances, exploring different possibilities of abstraction. In one large sculpture that from one point of view suggests a marching, kicking figure, the topmost rectangle is attached to the main body in a way that is jarring, like a head or arm that has slightly slipped off its torso. The shift stops the easy emotional flow and makes the work less an answer than a question.
The two most unexpected works in the show have a kind of anonymity that also seems new. One is a sculpture by the window in which a roughly triangular form, a bit like a horse's head, is attached at the top of an upright rod like a flag to a pole. The other, made of basswood, has two elements, each with five parts. While the sculpture by the window rises off the floor, this one nearly collapses. Each of the two parts periodically coalesces into an image of a figure, curled up, perhaps looking at the other. Mr. Shapiro has not courted dissolution and disjunctiveness this way before.
 
Eugene Leroy
Edward Thorp Gallery
103 Prince Street
Through tomorrow
 For many years now, Eugene Leroy has been building up and stripping down canvases, making them seem naked or impenetrable, burial grounds or inexhaustible repositories of images and light. In his new paintings, as before, paint is woven across the canvas in thick strands squeezed directly from the tube. Sometimes areas of the canvas, even alongside the mounds of paint, are scraped away, so that the weave of the canvas is visible. In this process of adding and subtracting, Mr. Leroy continues to search for something that sometimes takes years to find.
What he finds always has something to do with the human image, which is always vulnerable in his paintings, always threatened, but capable of carrying on. The imagery held within his knots of paint is basic: heads and bodies; men and women; mothers and children; water and earth. They come through the paint, they are inside the paint, they are the paint. It is never clear exactly where they are and what they are, but they have to exist.
What is most distinct about Mr. Leroy's recent paintings is how close the images are to disappearing. In "Visage sur Lumiere Verte et Rouge," the paint seems to part slightly to reveal a head in the pictorial mud like the head of Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler in the Cubist grid of Picasso. In "Claire," one head emerges at the lower right, another in the center left, both facing us -- perhaps. The figures in these paintings seem to be part of some processional march that began some place beyond memory. Although the images seem capable of being extinguished or called back at any second, they also have the capacity to endure, in the memories of those who see them, for a good while.
 
Stephen Ellis
Koury Wingate Gallery
578 Broadway (near Prince Street)
Through Dec. 1
 Stephen Ellis is trying to put everything he can into abstract paintings that come out of the stripes and grids of modernism but bear a very personal stamp. In all three three-panel paintings and in the two single-panel paintings in this show, there is a vertical scaffolding built with ink lines. Interlaced are horizontal strips applied with paint that is diluted and often creamy and glowing. The brushwork pulled across the canvas has its own life, sometimes creating illusions or reflections of landscape that bring to mind paintings by Monet.
The tensions within these paintings are generally convincing but still somewhat schematic. If the paintings are suggestive of architectural scaffoldings, they are also earthy. If they seem to have a mathematical precision, the process through which they are painted also seems highly intuitive. It is sometimes hard to tell what paint is over and what paint is under, or what is figure or ground. There is often no absolute sense of direction: some paintings almost ask to be turned on their sides. This dialectical approach has a self-conscious aspect to it now, but Mr. Ellis is an artist of intelligence and ambition, and these paintings promise a great deal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Food Chain," including some of many bronze creatures by Tom Otterness in a gallery show in SoHo. (D. James Dee/Brooke Alexander Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: ART; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) SCULPTURE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); WILD CATS (76%); ANIMALS (76%); MARTIAL ARTS (66%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (53%); WRESTLING (50%); 

PERSON: BRENSON, MICHAEL; SHAPIRO, JOEL; OTTERNESS, TOM; LEROY, EUGENE; ELLIS, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



731 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 36; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: The Debt's Progress

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Tom Wicker states in "America's Real Deficit" (column, Nov.7) that the national debt "is growing about the same pace as gross national product." The national debt ended the fiscal year at more than $3.2 trillion, an increase of $376 billion, or about 12 percent. The debt increase will likely continue on its upward surge, while the gross national product may not increase at all for some time.
At an average rate of 9 percent, interest on the debt will be almost $300 billion a year. That is an obligatory Federal expenditure, encompassing funds that are thus not available for environmental cleanup, public housing repair, education for at-risk youth or the many other neglected social needs that Mr. Wicker recites.
 
SEYMOUR B. DURST
 New York, Nov. 12, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (90%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (90%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING PUBLIC DEBT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (51%); 

PERSON: DURST, SEYMOUR B THOMAS GREY 'TOM' WICKER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



732 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 36; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: After Mrs. Thatcher

 BODY:
With her vision, her intellect and her commanding presence, she dominated Britain's politics, and its relations with the U.S., for more than a decade. Americans will miss Margaret Thatcher, but there is no reason for concern about the likely direction of British policies after her.
Yesterday she bowed to a Conservative Party revolt and resigned. The swiftness of her fall and the competition to succeed her guarantee some unpredictability. But on the issues that affect America most, substantial continuity is assured under any of the Conservative contenders -- Michael Heseltine, Douglas Hurd or John Major -- or even under the Labor leader, Neil Kinnock. 
 Washington's most urgent concern is the Persian Gulf. Saddam Hussein would be foolhardy to anticipate any weakening of British resolve. Britain's Defense Secretary, Tom King, sent a powerful signal by announcing the dispatch of 16,000 additional troops, doubling the British contingent.
Mr. Heseltine once served Mrs. Thatcher as Defense Secretary. Mr. Hurd is Foreign Secretary, and Mr. Major served in that post before taking control of economic policy as Chancellor of the Exchequer. All are tough-minded Conservatives.
On the opposition side, Mr. Kinnock has steered the Labor Party away from its flirtation with unilateral nuclear disarmament, winning the respect of Washington. Labor has also shed its enthusiasm for nationalizations. That reflects Mr. Kinnock's own views, but it is also a tribute to the intellectual revolution Mrs. Thatcher brought.
Policy changes are far more likely on the two issues that brought Mrs. Thatcher down: the degree of Britain's integration into the European Community, and the unpopular and regressive poll tax introduced earlier this year. While taxation is a purely domestic concern, America can only welcome a turn away from Mrs. Thatcher's Little England nationalism, which so divided her from her Tory colleagues.
Convinced that her West European partners schemed to ensnare free-market Britain in a morass of crypto-socialist regulation, she acted as if Britain were still an economic superpower, able to make its way in the world entirely on its own. This stubbornness threatened to undermine her greatest achievement: convincing Britain's private-sector entrepreneurs that they could no longer live off past glories and must adapt to competitive realities.
Margaret Thatcher's special strength was to marry ideological commitment to political realism, as in her early appreciation of how Mikhail Gorbachev's policies overturned cold war orthodoxies. Britons rewarded these qualities with three consecutive general election victories, giving her the longest lease on office since universal suffrage began. She was more than a political phenomenon. She wrought the kind of changes that warrant whole new chapters in history books.
Had she not strayed from her political instincts in blind pursuit of the chimerical Little England, she might indeed have gone "on and on." In the end, Mrs. Thatcher regained her balance. She bowed to the inevitable, still a winner, proud of her eleven-and-a-half-year record -- and justly so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); ENGLAND (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); NATIONALIZATION (70%); HISTORY (65%); 

PERSON: THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



733 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 37; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
Park Avenue Lady

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
On a fine autumn morning in New York, just before Thanksgiving, when the streets were full of handsomely dressed people off to work, a gray-haired woman about 60 years old stepped off the curb at Park Avenue and 67th Street, raised her dress, bared herself, and defecated in the gutter.
I did what everybody else did. I turned my head in disgust and walked away toward the office. But that morning I found it a little harder to walk away from the mentally ill of the city. 
 A demented man was stretched on his back, near Madison Avenue, eight blocks south of the woman in the Park Avenue gutter, shouting out loud to the demons of his mind. A mile on, a few steps away from the office, a woman lay in a doorway as she does every day, in filth of body and pain of mind. She clutched the bottle of liquor almost never out of hand -- the gift of death by poison that passers-by give to her with their coins.
About 15,000 mentally ill people live on New York streets -- almost one-third of the homeless. But this is not one more New York horror story. I have seen the Park Avenue lady and the raw faced woman in the doorway in Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Houston, Miami. If you travel America, try getting away from the homeless mentally ill -- try.
How did we get to this point, where Americans calmly accept the fact that we cannot deal decently with scores of thousands of destitute Americans who suffer so desperately in their minds that they cry their pain in the streets, where we send them to live? When and why did this country accept madness in the streets as part of the city scenery, turn its back on the deeply disturbed, unless they happened to defecate in front of our delicate eyes? In the mid-50's, there were more than 550,000 patients in American public mental health hospitals. Now there are about 100,000.
The public saw the mental hospitals as snake pits. Some were, and some were not, but closing them was supposed to save the states a nice pile of tax money. A little later, tranquilizer drugs speeded the emptying of the wards. But on the streets, without care or attention, the mentally disturbed did not take the drugs, and regressed rapidly.
The idea was to give the mentally ill post-hospital care in halfway houses or community centers. Officials and taxpayers never came up with enough money. When the hospitals closed, the mentally ill poor went into the street. That helped push at least a third of them into even more nightmare worlds -- alcoholism and drug addiction.
They found friends -- organizations and individuals who try to help them get off the streets. But God help them, they also found some "advocates" who insist that living on the sidewalk month in month out, freezing or baking, the prey of human street rats, eating garbage, and refusing treatment or even food and shelter is an acceptable alternative life style. As long as they do not commit a serious crime -- not just the misdemeanor of befouling private or public property -- they have the right to live in the streets and the right to die there.
Some advocates argue that there is no such thing as mental illness, just another way of looking at reality. Maybe they are right. Is what we have come to accept really sanity -- that mental illness is a right to be exercised to the point of suicide rather than a disease demanding medical care for the victim?
Is it sanity to say that if you are bleeding from a car accident an ambulance will take you away, but if you are bleeding from the mind you can lie there until you rot?
Is caring for people too sick to know they need care truly a violation of their freedom?
It is a disservice to all the homeless to lump their problems together. That makes homelessness seem unsolvable, when it is not.
The economically destitute homeless need economic help -- and can respond to it as full members of society, not some murky, psychically troubled mysterious underclass.
The addicts or mentally disturbed -- estimated at 70 percent of the homeless -- need a range of treatments if they are to escape the streets into decent housing. Is it beyond the American legal and medical mind to provide that help, even to those who do not grasp that they need it?
If we won't put enough taxes -- yes, taxes -- or attention into doing the job, let's have the honesty not to blame the Governor or Mayor. Let's just shut up, keep on walking away from the lady on Park Avenue, and enjoy our next Thanksgiving.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); HOSPITALS (87%); DEMENTIA (75%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1990



734 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Of Small Farms and Sacred Cows

BYLINE: By FERDINAND PROTZMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BROHL-LUTZING, Germany

 BODY:
On his 75-acre family farm tucked away in the rocky hills some 20 miles southeast of Bonn, Alfons Schmitz tends his 20 dairy cows, grows a small crop of wheat and watches with deep concern the bitter dispute between the United States and the European Community over farm subsidies.
The issue of cutting the generous government subsidies paid to Europe's mainly small, inefficient farmers has deadlocked the final talks in the four-year round of negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which regulates global commerce. And the political power of people like Mr. Schmitz is the main obstacle. 
 Europe's 9.7 million farmers -- nearly triple the number in the United States -- are not only numerous but also politically well organized. So while high farm subsidies raise food prices and dampen economic growth, the prospect of making deep cuts in agricultural payments is anathema to most European leaders.
In Germany, the nation's 682,000 farmers and 1.69 million agricultural workers are a potent political force. Like Mr. Schmitz, they are nearly all supporters of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's party, the Christian Democratic Union.
 
 Meeting in Brussels
 "I don't belong to the C.D.U., but I vote for it," Mr. Schmitz said. "It's the tradition of the farmers."
Moreover, the country's agricultural politics have been complicated by the unification of the two Germanys, bringing in an additional 959,900 agricultural workers on 3,844 state farms in what used to be East Germany. Maintaining high subsidies, political analysts say, could be a way for the Christian Democrats to expand their farm constituency.
In the trade talks, the United States, Australia and other efficient agricultural producers are advocating deep cuts in both price supports and export subsidies, which would drastically reduce the payments the European Community makes to its farmers. For their part, the Europeans have countered by offering more modest reductions in price supports but no cuts in export subsidies.
Trade ministers from 100 member countries will meet in Brussels at the end of this month to try to find a solution to the long-running farm dispute. If they succeed, the agreement would then open the way for the GATT to be significantly expanded to liberalize trade in new fields, such as financial services and intellectual property.
In the view of Mr. Schmitz, a lean 29-year-old with the heavily muscled forearms of dairy farmers the world over, the American proposal to slash price-support levels by 75 percent over the next decade and export subsidies by 90 percent is unrealistically draconian. Even the European Community's counterproposal to trim price supports by another 15 percent in the next five years, he says, might drive him off the farm his grandfather bought in 1926.
 
 Average Income of $21,963
 "I won't be able to cover my costs," Mr. Schmitz said. "It wouldn't be worth it to farm, and I would have to give up and find some other line of work."
Although European price supports have been trimmed gradually in recent years, they are still high by world standards. For example, the current guaranteed price for milk is $16.87 per hundredweight in the community, compared with $10.10 in the United States. For corn, the community-guaranteed price is $5.85 a bushel versus $2.75 in America. For soybeans, the European guaranteed price is $17 a bushel against $4.92 in America.
Yet the subsidies in Europe have declined, crimping farm incomes. A spokesman for the German Agricultural Ministry said the average German small farmer, working without hired help, earned $21,963 in the 1988-89 fiscal year ended last June. This fiscal year the average will be about $19,727.
Mr. Schmitz refused to say how much he made from the farm last year, but expects to make less this year.
The Schmitz farm is about averge size for Germany, where 95 percent of the farms are less than 120 acres. The Schmitz farmhouse and barns form a courtyard on a narrow street on the village outskirts, while the acreage is outside of town. About half the land is pasture, with the remainder planted in wheat, corn and mixed grains. His herd produces 10,560 pounds, or 292,000 liters, of milk a year.
 
 Insurance and Pension Payments
 The milk is picked up every two days and taken to a dairy in the city of Koblenz. Some of it is then shipped to Italy and sold. Wheat is Mr. Schmitz's other cash crop, and it is sold to grain dealers who resell it. The corn and mixed grains are used exclusively as fodder for his livestock.
Like most German farmers, Mr. Schmitz does not know precisely how much of his income comes from subsidies paid by the European Community through the auspices of the German Government. Though prices can fluctuate somewhat according to changes in supply and demand, the Government maintains minimum prices on agricultural products, typically administered through food wholesalers. In addition, the German Government pays $10 billion a year for farmers' insurance and pension programs.
The various proposals for cutting farm payments in the GATT talks would appear to have a greater impact on Mr. Schmitz's wheat crop than on his milk production. Mr. Schmitz raises about 20 acres of wheat, producing roughly one ton a year.
The European Community offers its farmers one of the largest grain subsidies in the world, so they would be hard hit by big cutbacks. The community pays a subsidy of about $120 on a ton of wheat, which sells for about $77 on the world market. Such practices put developing nations and countries that cannot afford to pay subsidies to their farmers, like Argentina, at a huge competitive disadvantage. Argentina is selling its wheat for $71.50 a ton.
 
 'A Dangerous Strategy'
 American wheat sold on the world market is also subsidized, but at far lower levels than in Europe. United States wheat currently sells for $77 a ton, with the Government paying $41 a ton in subsidy through the Export Enhancement Program.
Secretary of Agriculture Clayton K. Yeutter says that the European Community, as the most generous in its price supports and export subsidies, is distorting agricultural policy worldwide by, in effect, undercutting prices in the United States and developing countries. "What we are attempting to do in GATT is achieve significant reforms that are long overdue," Mr. Yeutter said last week.
Both Mr. Yeutter and Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, said that failing to reach a solution to the agricultural impasse could endanger progress toward liberalizing world trade and warned that Europeans may be underestimating the American resolve to hold out for large cutbacks.
"I've gotten the feeling that in Europe people believe that at the end of the day we'll blink and they won't have to come off their position on subsidies or only nominally," Mr. Yeutter said. "That's a dangerous strategy doomed to be proven incorrect."
 
 14-Hour Days and Cutting Wood
 Reducing overall tariff and non-tariff barriers by one-third, as the United States has proposed, would make the global economy grow by $4 trillion over the next decade, Mrs. Hills said, with the European Community economy growing by an additional $1 trillion. Reducing farm payments should also benefit European consumers, who pay more for their food. For example, the retail price of a gallon of milk is about $3.20, compared with just under $2.50 a gallon in the United States.
Though supported by subsidies, Mr. Schmitz still works 14-hour days. The home he shares with his parents is heated by a wood-burning stove, and he cuts his own wood. It is, he says, a life he loves. Still, he seems reconciled to giving it up eventually.
"If they pay me a direct subsidy to not plant or produce, that would be all right," he said. "I just can't afford to lose any more income. And I'm willing to listen to alternative crop schemes and all that. But I don't have any illusions. What comes probably won't be any improvement. I'd just like to have a healthy departure from it, if I could."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The current round of global trade talks is stalled by a dispute over farm subsidies. Alfons Schmitz, a German dairy farmer, is part of the agricultural constituency that makes the issue of farm subsidies a political concern, rather than an economic matter, for German leaders. (Ferdinand Protzman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (73%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FARMERS FARM LABOR (90%); POLITICS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); 

PERSON: PROTZMAN, FERDINAND HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (55%); HELMUT KOHL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



735 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bond Prices Down in Slow Day

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Prices of long-term Treasury securities declined moderately in thin trading yesterday, largely in reaction to another sharp rise in crude oil prices, to $31.90 a barrel. But the shorter Treasury maturities, which are less influenced by inflation fears and pressures, were basically unchanged.
Many market participants extended their Thanksgiving holiday, rather that take part in a shortened trading session. The Treasury market closed at 2 P.M. Also, the important Tokyo market in United States debt issues was closed for Japan's annual Labor-Thanksgiving Day national holiday. 
 As it was, the Treasury's benchmark long bonds, the 8.75 percent issue maturing in August 2020, were offered at 103 11/32, down 8/32, or $2.50 for each $1,000 of face value. The long bond's yield thus rose to 8.43 percent, from 8.41 percent at Wednesday's close, but was one basis point below last Friday's 8.44 percent.
 
 Down About 25 Basis Points
 The yield on the bellwether long bonds has declined about 25 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, in the last month, mainly on the belief that the nation was in or about to enter a recession that would depress interest rates generally.
"We may already be in a recession, but it will be a mild and brief one," said Eugene J. Sherman, senior vice president and chief economist at the Federal Home Loan Board of New York. "Consequently, we don't see interest rates going into a free fall. In fact, we expect the recession to bottom out in the first quarter of 1991 and the economy to turn upward by late spring. Bond investors who expect the inflation rate to decline below current levels will also be disappointed."
Given this assessment, Mr. Sherman said he doubted that the yield on the long bond would fall below 8 percent because "the brevity and shallowness of the recession will not allow much slack to develop in the economy."
 
 Stimulation of Exports Seen
 One reason he believes the recession will be brief is that he expects the dollar's weakness to stimulate exports further and to reduce imports. Moreover, the deepening Federal budget deficit, even without a shooting war in the Persian Gulf, will prevent any significant decline in inflation for the foreseeable future, he added.
Meanwhile, the closely watched Treasury long notes, the 8.5 percent issue of November 2000, lost 5/32, at 101 16/32, for a yield of 8.27 percent. The long notes are often compared for investment purposes with 10-year Japanese and German "long bonds."
While the yield on the Treasury's long notes dipped to 8.27 percent from 8.29 percent since the previous Friday, the yield on the similar Japanese maturity dropped to 7.47 percent from 7.76 percent, while that on the same German bond maturity fell to 8.79 percent from 8.89 percent during the week.
 
 Bill Rates Unchanged
 At the short end of the Treaury market, the discount rate on 90-day bills was unchanged at 7.03 percent. The six-month bills were also unchanged at 6.98 percent. But the one-year bills rose a basis point, to 6.79 percent.
Dealers said the bill rates reflected in large part the steady Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for temporary loans. The funds closed at 7.5 percent after trading at that level for most of the session. Many credit market analysts now view 7.5 percent as the Federal Reserve's new target level for this key interest rate. The Fed, meanwhile, was absent from the market, having apparently supplied reserves to the banking system on Wednesday that would be ample through the holiday weekend.
On Tuesday, the Treasury plans to auction $12.3 billion of new two-year notes, and $9 billion of five-year notes on Wednesday. The two-year notes traded on a when-issued basis to yield 7.47 percent, down from 7.51 percent last Wednesday. The yield on the five-year notes was unchanged at 7.90 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (78%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RECESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); THANKSGIVING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



736 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Women's Push Into Work Force Seems to Have Reached Plateau

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Although women seem as committed as ever to holding jobs, they are no longer piling into the labor force as rapidly as they did in the 1970's and 1980's.
The change of pace, which is just beginning to show up in Labor Department data, suggests that the number of women working or job-hunting is being held down by such developments as the incipient national recession and a rising number of births, which are keeping many new mothers temporarily at home. 
 Some economists and sociologists contend that women, as a group, might be approaching the upper limit of participation in the work force, one imposed by a society that gives women primary responsibility for children yet does not furnish adequate child care. Most of these experts agree that the ceiling, if it indeed exists, will rise again, perhaps by the end of the decade, if the child-care barrier and other issues are resolved.
"The pattern is changing; the rip-roaring increases in labor participation among women have indeed finally leveled off," said Thomas Plewes, an associate commissioner of the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Is this permanent? Our best thinking would say that it is not. Women in the labor force behave more like their fathers than their mothers."
The milder growth rate might have a silver lining, perhaps helping to reverse a 20-year trend in which the median incomes of all workers have failed to keep up with inflation. "If women enter the work force in smaller numbers, labor could become a scarcer commodity, one that can't be thrown away or underpriced so easily," said Frank Levy, a University of Maryland labor economist who specializes in income trends.
 
Rate Holds Steady

 
For nearly two years, the percentage of all of the nation's working-age women actually in the labor force, that is, the women holding jobs or actively seeking them, has leveled off at around 57.7 percent, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. Not since the early 1970's has the rate held steady for so long. By comparison, 75.6 percent of working-age men are in the labor force.
While the participation rate of men has been dropping very gradually, that of women has climbed sharply since 1960, when it was about 37 percent.
More significant than the overall figure, the labor participation rates for women in the two largest age groups -- 25 to 34 years old and 35 to 44 -- have risen since 1986 at a much slower pace than in the previous 10 years. In the 25-to-34 age group, for example, the participation rate is 73.1 percent as of last month, an increase of only two percentage points since October 1985. In contrast, the rate jumped 5.6 percentage points from 1981 through 1985, and 9.8 points in the late 1970's.
Labor economists and sociologists say the recent trends in women's participation in the labor force have not yet been sufficiently studied to identify precisely the forces at work. But in more than a dozen interviews and in a review of the data several major themes emerge.
 
 Slump in the Service Sector
 One is that the slowdown in the American economy is hitting hardest at industries in which women are heavily represented, including service businesses like financial services and retailing. That is a contrast to recessions in the early 1980's and mid-1970's, which decimated manufacturing, with its concentration of blue-collar male workers. Now, women losing their jobs might be staying home for a while rather than searching for scarce jobs, economists say.
Young women are also dragging down the participation rate, especially those below 24 years of age. In the 20-to-24-year-old group, the percentage of women in the labor market has actually declined, to 71.8 percent last month from a high of nearly 73 percent in 1985.
Rising college enrollment helps explain the absence of these women from the labor force. So does low pay, often less than $8 an hour for the less educated. These women frequently make ends meet by living with parents or they enter the labor force only sporadically, economists say.
Young black women in particular have much lower participation rates than white women under 24. In addition, Hispanic women of all ages, many of them first-generation immigrants, also have much lower participation rates than white women. Many Hispanic women prefer to be homemakers, sociologists say.
 
 Birth Rate Soars
 The sudden rise in birth rates might be the most important factor of all. Married women in their 30's and early 40's, women who delayed having children while they established their careers, are now having children. At the same time married women in their late 20's are also having children, rather than delaying parenthood as their older colleagues often did.
"The younger women are going ahead with motherhood even if it means giving up the extra income for a while and facing a declining standard of living," said Katherine Newman, a Columbia University anthropologist who is studying the phenomenon in a middle-class New Jersey community near New York City that she declined to name.
More than four million children were born in the United States last year and more than 4.1 million births are likely this year, the Census Bureau estimates. Those are the highest numbers since 1964, the last year in which baby boomers were born. And it seems to mean that more women are taking time out for childbirth and child-rearing.
Labor Department data are not clear on this point, mostly because information for 1989 and 1990 is not yet available for the crucial age groups involved. But participation rates for married women of all ages living with their husbands -- a group that represents more than 30 million of the nearly 58 million women in the nation's labor force -- shed some light on what is happening. Fewer than 60 percent of these women with children under age 6 are in the labor force. But three-quarters of those with older children either work or seek work. And the labor force participation rate of all women -- married or not -- with children under 1 year of age, which rose with great speed in the 1980's, has stagnated at 52 percent since 1987.
 
 Perceptions About Roles
 The pressure to stay home with young children is often self-imposed, according to Ms. Newman's findings in her study of 160 men and women in the New Jersey community -- half 1970 graduates of the local high school and half 1980 graduates. All are old enough to have been raised, for the most part, by mothers who were homemakers.
"The model of their mothers exerts a considerable pull on them," Ms. Newman said. "But I want to emphasize that dropping out of the labor force is not without regrets. The whole issue is filled with tension. Women are held responsible for the intellectual development of their children, and they don't want to be blamed for messing it up. But while the urgency to have families is chafing at them, they also want a certain standard of living. They worry about making the mortgage payments, and the husbands of women in their 20's want the second income."
The pressure to raise young children in person helps to explain why the labor participation rates of American women, while among the highest in the industrial world, are still well below those of Sweden, where child care is publicly financed, the Government encourages women to work and the participation rates are nearly equal to those of men.
In Sweden, for example, more than 90 percent of women 25 to 54 years old are in the labor force, compared with only 74 percent in this country. That leads some American experts to the conclusion that a Government-financed child-care system of the sort that is widely accepted by the Swedish public would free more American women to participate in the work force.
Child-care centers have multiplied in the United States in the last decade and Census Bureau surveys show their average cost to be less than 10 percent of a working mother's income, says Heidi Hartman, director of the Institute for Women's Policy Research.
"But certainly, if we had publicly financed child care and national quality control, women would be able to play a greater role in the labor force," she said.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing percentage of women over 20 in the work force. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 1); Graph showing percentage of each age group in the work force. (Sorce: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; WOMEN; HIRING AND PROMOTION; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIRTHS LABOR FORCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRENDS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); WOMEN (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); CHILD CARE (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



737 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Portables Threaten American Lead in Computers

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
It happened in cars and in office copiers. Now the computer industry, a star of the American economy, is being threatened by a new wave of small Japanese products.
In the last two years, lightweight portable computers have become the fastest-growing part of the computer business. And as the machines get smaller and smaller, the Japanese have used their expertise in miniaturizing computer electronics to strengthen their foothold, industry executives and analysts say. 
 "What is happening is a new kind of product coming into the industry: high-volume consumer computers," said Andrew S. Grove, president and chief executive of the Intel Corporation, which makes the microprocessors that serve as the brains of most personal computers. "As this hits, the center of gravity of the industry will move to Japan."
 
'Heading Into Trouble'
 The American computer industry, he added, is "heading into trouble."
But others say the American computer industry still leads the world by far and continues to innovate. They add that earlier warnings about Japanese gains in the computer market proved unfounded.
Portable computers include laptops, which weigh up to 17 pounds and can be carried around and propped up on the lap for typing, and notebook computers, which weigh four to seven pounds. In addition, industry experts say, entirely new kinds of small computers are coming to market, including tiny "palmtop" computers that weigh one to three pounds and mobile message-sending computers that communicate by radio. Additional uses of computers might result from yet another new class of small machines that recognize handwriting and are operated by writing with a stylus instead of typing on a keyboard.
 
Growth Predicted for Portables
 Nearly 40 percent of personal computers sold in the world in 1994 will be portable machines, compared with only 14 percent now, predicts Dataquest, a market research concern based in San Jose, Calif. Japanese companies, which have only a 9 percent market share in the American personal computer market over all, sell about 40 percent of the portable computers, according to market research firms. The figure represents only the machines with Japanese brand names.
Japanese companies have not been successful to date in the American personal computer market because they have had trouble keeping up with rapid changes in the industry and have lacked strong distribution and software. While they have not sold many complete machines, Japanese companies have instead become major suppliers of components needed to make a computer, including memory chips, floppy disk drives, monitors and printers. The insides of laser printers come from Japanese copier makers.
 
 Designing and Manufacturing
 But with laptop computers, Japanese companies are moving from parts suppliers to co-designers and manufacturers of complete machines. Experience in making calculators, watches, television sets and Walkman stereos have given Japanese companies expertise in miniaturization and the ability to build the flat screens used in portable laptop and notebook computers.
"If you want to dance in the laptop market, you need a Japanese partner," said Bruce Stephen, an analyst with the International Data Corporation, a market research company.
The latest evidence of this idea is that Apple Computer Inc., which has designed and built all its own computers, is now talking to two Japanese companies, the Sony Corporation and the Toshiba Corporation, about having them build small lightweight versions of Apple's Macintosh.
The Compaq Computer Corporation turned to the Citizen Watch Company of Tokyo for help in building its LTE machines, six-pound notebook computers that have been a hit. Citizen and Compaq jointly designed the machine, and Citizen manufactures machines for sale outside the United States.
 
American-Japanese Partners
 The Tandy Corporation, a maker of personal computers, gets most of its laptop computers from the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, known for its Panasonic brand. The Zenith Data Systems Corporation, a unit of the Zenith Electronics Corporation, teamed with the Sanyo Electric Company for its laptop computers, although its notebook machine, which is even smaller, is made in Taiwan. Texas Instruments Inc. developed its new notebook computer with help from the Sharp Corporation.
Toshiba and the NEC Corporation, which had little success before in the American personal computer market, are among the leaders in laptops under their own brand names.
Gains by Japanese companies in the market for portable computers are worrying some United States executives. In a stark speech to a ballroom full of semiconductor industry executives recently, Dr. Grove said Silicon Valley was becoming "technologically irrelevant" and predicted that the market share of Japanese companies in the worldwide data processing industry would be greater than that of American companies by 1992.
Such a reversal of market shares would come not only through laptop computers but also in giant mainframe computers, a market long controlled by the International Business Machines Corporation in which Japanese companies are also making strides.
 
Scoffed at by Many
 Many computer industry executives and analysts scoff at such dire predictions. In certain crucial areas, including software, computer design and computer chip design, American companies are unmatched, they say.
The trend lines shown by Dr. Grove and others are "somewhat accurate," said Ken Kay, executive director of the Computer Systems Policy Project, a new lobbying group formed by the nation's largest computer companies. But he added that American computer executives did not see themselves losing ground as quickly as Dr. Grove does.
American companies still had a 61 percent share of world sales of computer systems in 1989, compared with 22 percent for Japanese companies, according to the lobbying group. Nevertheless, since 1983, the American share dropped from 81 percent while the Japanese share nearly tripled, from 8 percent.
 
Best Opportunity Yet
 Despite disagreements on the size of the threat, most executives agree that the trend toward miniature computers gives the Japanese companies their best opportunity yet. "Certainly they are going to have a much stronger presence in this decade than they did in the last decade because of the shift to laptops," said John V. Roach, chief executive of Tandy.
One reason Japanese companies excel at laptops is that Japan's cramped offices require smaller machines, so Japanese manufacturers have tended to concentrate on them more than American manufacturers have. In addition, laptop computers are usually used in isolation from other computers. In systems with machines connected together in large complex networks, American companies still lead.
But the main reasons are the expertise in miniaturization and the fact that Japanese companies are the leading suppliers of flat liquid crystal display screens, which can account for 25 percent of the cost of a notebook computer. Liquid crystals make up the technology used in many digital watches, calculators and pocket television sets.
 
'Dumping' Accusations Made
 Some small American companies are trying to make flat screens but have had trouble keeping up with the huge investments made by the Japanese. Eight American companies recently accused Japanese makers of flat screens of "dumping," selling their screens at unfairly low prices to drive out competition.
The case of portable computers seems to support those executives who have been arguing that the nation needs to develop high-definition television and other consumer electronics products or risk the erosion of its computer industry. "The loss of consumer electronics in the 70's is coming back to haunt us," Dr. Grove said.
Still, some executives say, previous predictions of Japanese assaults have proved groundless. "I heard the same thing a few years ago," said Andrew Czernek, vice president of product strategy and development at Zenith Data Systems.
 
Reference to Early 1980's
 He was referring to the early 1980's, after the personal computer industry standardized around the design selected by I.B.M. It was feared that the establishment of a standard would free companies to compete strictly on price and the Japanese would win.
But the Japanese had little success. Rather, manufacturers from Taiwan and South Korea penetrated the market with low-priced clones. But the American computer companies still set the directions for the industry.
There is also the prospect that American companies could take back some of the manufacturing of miniature computers. Apple Computer executives have already said the company will design and manufacture some of its own small computers. In a reversal of roles, Tandy recently arranged to supply one model of a laptop computer to Matsushita. And Sharp is selling a notebook computer made by Texas Instruments.
 
Others Entering Business
 Other companies are also entering the business. At the Comdex trade show in Las Vegas, Nev., this month, numerous American, Korean and Taiwanese notebook computers were introduced, presenting a new threat to Japanese companies already in the market.
AST Research Inc., a successful maker of personal computers in Irvine, Calif., and the Airis Computer Corporation, a Chicago start-up company, are among the newcomers introducing laptop computers they will make themselves. Officials of both companies said they considered a Japanese partner but concluded that a partner would offer nothing they could not do themselves.
The pessimists say American computers are becoming merely packaging for Japanese components. Dr. Grove estimated that Japanese components represented about 20 percent of the bill for parts of the original Apple II computer, introduced in 1977. The Next Inc. computer, introduced in 1988, had about 70 percent Japanese parts, he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 27, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about Japanese advances in portable computers misstated the affiliation of the Zenith Data Systems Corporation. It is owned by Groupe Bull of France, no longer by the Zenith Electronics Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The portable computer category includes entirely new types, like this mobile conmputer that communicates with a larger "base station" computer by radio. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 29); Graph comparing American and Japanese laptop computer sales. (Source: International Data Corporation)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); PHOTOCOPIERS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (78%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); MICROPROCESSORS (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (72%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (60%); MEMORY CHIPS (50%); FLOPPY DRIVES (50%); 

PERSON: GROVE, ANDREW S (DR); POLLACK, ANDREW ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



738 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops by 12.13; Week's Loss Is 23.02

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
In a post-Thanksgiving Day session marked by a morning power interruption, trading on the New York Stock Exchange fell yesterday to its lowest point since the day after Christmas in 1986.
Stock prices sagged toward the close, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 12.13 points. 
 Volume reached only 63.35 million shares, compared with 48.86 million on Dec. 26, 1986. A traditionally sleepy post-holiday session, when many traders take an additional day off, was made weaker by the morning power failure, which lasted from 9:41 to 11:15 A.M.
 
 Analysts Divided on Meaning
 The Dow industrials closed at 2,527.23, bringing the loss in the holiday-shortened week to 23.02 points. Analysts were divided on what the decline meant. Some said the loss marked the end of what many have called a bear market rally, which began in mid-October and which would now be replaced by the bear itself. Others saw the poor showing as a pause before a traditional year-end rise takes hold.
Yesterday's broader market was a bit lower. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks closed off by 0.93 point at 315.10. Declining issues outnumbered advancing stocks by 680 to 650.
When the market resumed trading after the power failure, it showed good gains and tried to take a cue from its soaring British cousin. In London, stocks shot ahead on Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's decision to step down, with the hope that a successor would cut interest rates and open economic opportunities with Europe. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index jumped 42.6 points, to 2,170.5, a gain of 2 percent for the London market.
 
 Oil 'Clipped the Market'
 "Against the background of a traditional light day, the British market could have added a pop," said Tracy G. Herrick, an economist with Jefferies & Company in San Francisco. "There was not much to counter a strong thrust. But the carrythrough never went anywhere, as oil moved up a bit, and that clipped the market."
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the price of crude oil for January delivery surged $2.27, to $31.90 a barrel. The move put pressure on the stock and bond markets over all. But some energy issues moved higher, including Texaco, up 1/8, to 57 1/8; Exxon, up 3/8, to 51 1/8, and Amoco, up 1/8, to 52.
Although the British market failed to push the New York market higher, individual British issues trading here were sparklers. British Gas added 2 5/8 at 47 3/8 and Imperial Chemical Industries rose 2, to 71. British Telecom added 1 5/8, to 57 1/8, and British Petroleum rose by 11, to 79 5/8.
Looking ahead, Mr. Herrick of Jefferies was not optimistic for market prospects next week. "I think bonds are going to call the tune," he said. "Utilities have not been doing that well, signaling to me that the bond rally is running out of gas, and the stock market could be in for a slower period."
 
 Disappointment on MCA
 MCA was the second-most-active Big Board stock, trading more than 1.6 million shares and losing 3 1/8 at 65 3/8. Traders were said to be disappointed at the range, between $70 and $75 a share, that Matsushita Electric was reported to be discussing as an acquisition price for MCA.
I.B.M. showed weakness, losing 1 1/2 points at 112 5/8. But NCR rose a point, to 54 3/4.
Caterpillar lost 3 points at 39 3/8, and was among the most active stocks. Goldman, Sachs reduced its earnings estimate for the company.
Square D, a maker of electric goods whose stock has been up recently on takeover speculation, rose an additional 2 1/2, to 54 3/4.

GRAPHIC: Chart: The Favorite Stocks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (53%); BP (LSE) (53%); ORI (ASX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325920 EXPLOSIVES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2892 EXPLOSIVES (50%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (86%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH GAS (80%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BP PLC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC (50%); ORICA LTD (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F MARGARET THATCHER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



739 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Yugoslav Merger Planned by SPI

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: COSTA MESA, Calif., Nov. 23

 BODY:
Yugoslavia's largest pharmaceutical company has agreed to merge with the California-based SPI Pharmaceuticals Inc. in one of the biggest East-West transactions in Yugoslavia since World War II.
Under the agreement, which was announced on Thursday in Belgrade, the assets of Galenika Pharmaceuticals will be transferred to a new joint company, to be called ICN Galenika. The combined company is expected to have annual sales of $370 million. 
 SPI will own 75 percent of the new company and Galenika will own 25 percent, according to company officials. SPI is based in Costa Mesa and is an 89 percent owned subsidiary of ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc.
The transaction will provide Galenika with capital to modernize equipment and improve its international marketing position, the company said.
Galenika is the largest manufacturer of pharmaceutical and chemical products in Yugoslavia and serves markets throughout Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
Owned by the Yugoslav Government, Galenika expects sales of about $230 million this year and employs 5,800 workers. SPI has estimated 1990 sales of $140 million.
"We expect significant marketing synergies to occur from the consolidation of our businesses," said Milan Panic, chairman and chief executive of SPI and its parent, ICN.
The merger agreement is subject to final approval by the Federal Secretariat for External Economic Relations of Yugoslavia and the boards of SPI, its parent and Galenika.
The consolidation was made possible by changes in Yugoslav law in late 1988 permitting privatization of Government-owned businesses, SPI said.
Mr. Panic has been trying to expand ICN into Europe while reducing the debt it took on in the mid-1980's to make acquisitions.
The shares of the company are far from their peak in the $30's during the height of speculation over an AIDS drug it promoted in 1986 and 1987. The stock rose 62.5 cents today, to $3.875, on the New York Stock Exchange, where its gain of 19.2 percent was the second best of the day.
Late last year, after three years of disagreements with Federal officials over the results of its clinical tests, ICN abandoned efforts to win Government approval to market its anti-viral drug, ribavirin, as an AIDS treatment. The company took a $71 million write-off on its investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VRX (TSX) (95%); VRX (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (95%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL INC (95%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ICN GALENIKA; ICN PHARMACEUTICALS INC; SPI PHARMACEUTICALS INC; GALENIKA PHARMACEUTICALS

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (96%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (93%); MERGERS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); JOINT VENTURES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); WORLD WAR II (72%); AIDS & HIV (70%); CHEMICALS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



740 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Outplacement Business Is Almost Too Good

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

 BODY:
"The key to the whole process," the counselor at Fuchs, Cuthrell & Company, a New York City outplacement service, was saying brightly, "is learning how to market yourself -- just like positioning a product."
But in the world of outplacement, the corporate casualty ward for executives and middle managers who have lost their jobs, the merchandise is not moving the way it once did. 
 Dismissals and layoffs have swelled the ranks of unemployed executives in New York and other Northeast cities this autumn: more than 50,000 jobs have disappeared on Wall Street since 1987, and tens of thousands more white-collar workers have been laid off this year. The companies that specialize in helping the jobless seek new positions have a backlog.
 
Hand-Holding in Nervous Times
 It makes for nervous times behind the placid facades of these companies, which shun attention as studiously as does a safe house for spies.
About 20 companies in New York offer such services, usually for a fee of 15 percent of a year's salary. Outplacement is part of the severance package many large companies offer executives. By providing a small office, shared secretarial help, expertiseand a lot of hand-holding, outplacement executives say they increase the chances that someone looking for a job will be hired before severance pay runs out.
In this cramped new world, the out-of-work rewrite resumes, mail queries with opening lines like "My plan to pursue a new, more challenging position is prompting me to write. . . ," trade gossip and sometimes curses about their former bosses, keep their chins up and root for the day when they make a successful "landing."
"Losing a job is a kick in the gut and a blow to the ego," said Eva Grzelak, 38 years old, who lost a position in June as vice president of international marketing for a Wall Street company. "Being in outplacement is good for the morale because you talk every day with others in the same boat and understand they're fine, competent people, so you can't be so bad just because you lost your job."
Friendships are made and contacts are shared. When months drag by with no landing in sight, self-doubt becomes the enemy and self-improvement takes over. Under prodding from counselors and psychologists, the job seekers may shave a beard or dip into savings to freshen a wardrobe. Nearly everyone who needs to loses weight.
Deprived of personal secretaries, many job seekers are forced into unfamiliar acts, like placing their own business calls.
"I now know what it's like to be on the other end of the phone waiting for someone to pick up," said Marilyn Jerome, who was a marketing officer for a New York soft drinks and distilled spirits company until she was let go in January. "And when they finally come on the line, the first thing they ask is what company do you work for. Eeek!"
 
The Old Arrogant Days
 For many of the two dozen men and women interviewed at outplacement services recently, there is rue for their old arrogant days.
"I reflect back on the thousands of resumes that used to come across my desk and I never opened," said Jim C., who resigned under pressure as vice president of sales for a domestic apparel manufacturer last spring and who spoke on the condition that his identity not be fully disclosed.
"I won't do that again even if I have to answer every one myself," the 47-year-old Westchester man vowed. Last week, with the assistance of the Right Associates outplacement company in New York, which has 74 offices nationally and abroad, he was hired by another manufacturer at a higher salary than at his last job.
Andy B., who was dismissed in September as director of marketing communications for what he described as "a prestigious insurance company that used to boast they never let anyone go, even in the depths of the Depression," was happy about Jim C.'s new job, but sad to see him leave the partitioned cubicle they had shared. They had covered each other's telephone calls, gone to lunch together and and even swapped recipes.
 
Like the Stages of Grief
 "When we went out on interviews, we'd check each other out," said Andy B., 44, a bluff amiable man with a raucous sense of humor. "I'd brush off the back of his jacket or tell him he had a loose string on his collar. I would've been embarrassed before to ever tell a man that."
That protectiveness extended to others in the office who "haven't gotten their heads up and still can't look at themselves in the mirror," said Jim C. " 'You look down in the dumps. Let's get out of here and get a cup of coffee,' " he recalled telling others who looked depressed or sick with worry.
Nancy B. Hutter, a counselor for Fuchs, Cuthrell, said, "If someone's been with a firm for 20 years and suddenly finds himself out the door, he goes through something very much like the stages of grief. There's denial, anger and mourning over the loss of one's identity. Only then does acceptance come, and then action."
When someone lands a job, it breaks the gloom, and perhaps a few beers and a bottle of wine are passed around.
 
Don't Directly Ask for a Job
 "Personally, I'd much rather work out of home," said Dennis E. Carlton, a 43-year-old lawyer who was ousted this summer as a senior vice president with a six-figure income at a New York investment company. "But it's good stimulus to be around people landing jobs."
But then celebrators return to their cubicles, pick up the telephones and resume the dead-earnest business of networking.
"Networking is the art of talking to as many people as you can without directly asking anyone for a job," said Richard Bambrick, a 42-year-old publisher who has been out of work since September, when his electronic automotive trade magazine was folded by the parent company.
Mr. Bambrick said he considered himself "a dinosaur" because he worked with one company for 15 years, rather than switching employers to climb the corporate ladder. Now he has to scramble to make contacts outside the corporate world he inhabited.
 
Over 45? Expect a Pay Cut
 "There are a lot of executives, mostly men, who were not risk-takers, who worked at a job and not at a career, and now find themselves on the street with no network to help them," said Linda Kline, president of Kline-McKay, a small outplacement service in New York.
If they are above age 45, the prospects for finding a job at the same salary are dim in today's marketplace, she added.
Equally vulnerable is what is known in the trade as the corporate nun, a career woman who devoted herself to her company to the exclusion of everything else. Loss of employment to such a person can be shattering, experts said.
"The biggest skill these people need today is stress management," said Joseph McKay, Ms. Kline's partner. "Even if they find a new job they'll worry about losing it in today's economic climate."
 
It Takes Longer to Get Work
 In that climate, outplacement service is one of the few growth areas. But the success is double-edged.
Outplacement has traditionally been open-ended until a candidate lands a job. In the boom days of the 1980's the turnaround time between old job and new job was less than four months. In today's souring market it takes twice as long to find a job at the midmanagement level or higher. Outplacement services are struggling to house the newcomers without displacing those who have been job-hunting for more than a year.
"I suspect some firms are going to cut outplacement for midmanagement types who now expect it as a perk if they get fired," Ms. Kline speculated. "If that happens, there are going to be a lot of unhappy people working out of the basements of their homes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eva Grzelak, who was a vice president at a Wall Street company, making calls from a job-placement center (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. 23); "Personally, I'd much rather work out of home," said Dennis E. Carlton, who lost his job at an investment company. "But it's good stimulus to be around people landing jobs." (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; LAYOFFS (LABOR); EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES EMPLOYMENT (93%); LAYOFFS (91%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (60%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (60%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



741 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Fearful Auto Dealers Cut Back on Orders

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 23

 BODY:
Acting on fear that a recession is beginning, American automobile dealers are cutting back orders for new vehicles, and that is leading to widespread shutdowns of assembly plants.
William Carroll, a spokesman for the Ford Motor Company, said recent retail sales had been slightly ahead of the weak sales in the 30-day period a year earlier. But they were not strong enough to encourage dealers to place more orders with the manufacturer, he said. 
 Like other business people, the dealers face a dilemma when the economic outlook is gloomy: if they cut their orders in expectation of a recession, they stifle manufacturing and other economic activity, leading to layoffs like those planned by the auto makers and raising the odds of a serious downturn. On the other hand, if they increase their orders, they may be stuck with large inventories of unsold vehicles if the economy continues to slump and buyer demand falls.
American auto dealers had a 78-day supply of cars and trucks at the end of October, well above the 60-day supply considered normal. Stocks of unsold light trucks were especially large, with dealers reporting a 99-day supply of pickups, vans and four-wheel-drive vehicles through Oct. 31. Auto makers are speculating that some buyers who had been choosing trucks for personal transportation have been switching to cars recently because they are generally more fuel-efficient.
Leon Mudry, manager of Galeana Chrysler-Plymouth in Fort Myers, Fla., said he had ordered only 30 to 40 percent of the cars and light trucks normally allocated to the dealership for November and December. Mr. Mudry said he had held new orders down to bring the dealership's inventories in line.
"We expect our sales to be 15 or 20 percent behind 1989 by the time we close out the year," Mr. Mudry said.
 
 Persian Gulf Impact
 The shutdowns fall squarely on the Big Three auto makers, which account for the vast majority of American automotive production. Most of the United States assembly plants operated by Japanese car companies are raising their output as sales of their vehicles continue to rise.
The lower demand from dealers is likely to reduce the auto makers' fourth-quarter profits, which are tied directly to the number of vehicles shipped to dealers.
The dealers' hesitation to order more cars comes as a number of economic reports portray a weakening economy. Consumers, who have been stung by higher oil prices since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, are also showing more reluctance to make big purchases while the prospect of war hangs over the Persian Gulf.
As the Christmas season approaches, hundreds of thousands of auto workers will be temporarily laid off at assembly plants, parts plants and factories operated by suppliers for the industry. But many of the workers are covered by income-protection plans in their union contracts and will be able to collect about 90 percent of their regular, straight-time pay.
The latest blow to fourth-quarter production plans was a series of plant shutdowns announced on Wednesday by the Ford Motor Company, idling six American car and truck plants. The shutdowns will result in the temporary layoffs of 12,700 workers and will cut about 23,000 vehicles from Ford's production schedule.
 
 Slow Sales of Pickups
 Scheduled to be closed for the next two weeks are the Norfolk, Va., plant that builds F-series pickup trucks, the St. Paul plant that builds compact pickup trucks and the Edison, N.J., plant that builds compact pickups. Sales of pickups have been especially hard hit by the recent sharp drop in comsumer confidence and the rise in gasoline prices.
Ford will also temporarily shut a plant in Dearborn, Mich. that builds Mustangs, and another in Wayne, Mich. that builds Escorts.
In addition, a Ford plant in Lorain, Ohio, that produces Thunderbirds and Cougars on one assembly line and Econoline vans on a second line will reduce its output to one work shift, from two, for the rest of the fiscal quarter, which ends on Dec. 21. The entire industry shuts down for two weeks at that time.
The Chrysler Corporation announced this week that it would shut down an assembly plant in Toledo, Oio, next week. About 4,700 workers will be laid off at the plant, which builds Jeep Cherokees. The Cherokee, an important money maker for Chrysler, has been hurt by the popularity of the recently introduced Ford Explorer sport-utility vehicle.
In late October, the General Motors Corporation, the industry leader, said it would idle 16 assembly plants for varying amounts of time to keep its inventory of unsold vehicles from rising. According to Ward's Automotive Reports, a trade publication, G.M. cut its planned fourth-quarter production by 284,000 cars and trucks, to a total of 680,000, compared with 711,000 last year.
 
 Two-Week Shutdowns
 G.M. said it would extend shutdowns for two more weeks at plants in Van Nuys, Calif., where the Chevrolet Camaro and Pontiac Firebird models are made, and in Fairfax, Kan., wwhere the Pontiac Grand Prix is built. Both plants were temporarily idled beginning on Nov. 5.
The two-week shutdowns will also include a G.M. plant in Wentzville, Mo. that makes full-size Buicks, Oldsmobiles and Pontiacs; two plants in Lansing, Mich., that turn out compact cars sold by Oldsmobile, Pontiac and Buick, and a truck assembly plant in Detroit. The shutdowns will result in the temporary layoffs of about 18,500 workers.
G.M. will also shut down two Canadian plants, both in Oshawa, Ontario, where it makes Chevrolet Luminas and Buick Regals. About 7,600 workers will be laid off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (86%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (86%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available NEW CAR DEALERS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RETAIL SALES (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); CHRISTMAS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



742 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
U.S. Asks Allies to Help Move Troops to Gulf

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 23

 BODY:
The United States today appealed to European allies in Brussels for planes and ships to carry reinforcements to the Persian Gulf, American officials said.
The request was presented at North Atlantic Treaty Organization headquarters in Brussels by William H. Taft, the American representative to the alliance, to meet the demands of quickly transporting American troops, many of them based in Europe. 
 The American military's transportation capabilities were initially strained by President Bush's decision in August to send more than 200,000 troops to the gulf. The rapid deployment of these forces, many of them based in the United States, left the transfer of forces lagging behind schedule.
Now that Mr. Bush has decided to send more than 150,000 reinforcements, the United States is looking for allies help to insure that they get there in the next month and a half.
 
Europeans in Better Position
 Since the bulk of the additional Army troops being sent to Saudi Arabia are coming from Europe, the NATO allies are in a better position to help than before. In addition, Western European help in transporting American forces is a way for the allies to counter criticism that they are not doing their share, despite requests for help by Washington.
Representative Les Aspin, Democrat of Wisconsin, complained in a recent report on international performance in the gulf crisis that "Europe has not fully measured up to expectations."
"The bulk of our European allies have given solid (and painless) political support, passable economic support, and mere token military support," wrote Mr. Aspin, who is chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and who has generally supported the Bush Administration's decision to send huge reinforcements to the gulf and to threaten military action to evict Iraqi soldiers from Kuwait.
An American official said Washington wanted the allies to contribute planes for carrying troops; roll-on, roll-off ships that vehicles can drive on and off of, and ships to carry lubricants and high-grade refined fuels for military equipment.
 
Allies Yet to Respond
 The allies have yet to respond, and the United States plans to make more specific requests when the issue is taken up by Washington's NATO partners. Detailed arrangements would then be worked out by NATO's Civil Emergencies Preparedness Committee, a 16-member body founded to plan for wartime situations.
Mr. Cheney is going to Brussels in early December for a previously scheduled NATO meeting, which will provide another opportunity to discuss steps by Western European nations.
At the Pentagon today, Defense Seretary Dick Cheney formally gave the Army authority to extend periods of enlistments and delay retirements to keep up strength as the service builds up its forces in Saudi Arabia. Administration officials said on Wednesday that Mr. Cheney planned to take this action.
The Army said today that it would use this authority, thus preventing about 5,500 people a month from leaving the Army because of retirement or the expiration of their enlistments.
 
Training Centers to Stay Open
 In addition, the Army is stopping the transfer of soldiers deployed in Europe and other overseas posts to the United States, an action that will affect up to 1,500 people a month. The service will also keep open all training centers and military schools during the Christmas vacation period.
An Army statement said mandatory retirements, hardship cases and involuntary discharges would continue.
Mr. Bush gave the Pentagon the authority in August to stop military personnel from leaving the services when they were needed because of the American military operation in the gulf. But until today this authority was used only to retain personnel involved in the operation. The Army is the only service that has asked that the authority to retain personnel be extended to all of its personnel, regardless of whether they are involved in the gulf mission.
Under its previous, more limited authority to retain personnel, the Army had been keeping about 1,500 people a month who might have ordinarily left the service. The Marine Corps says it is planning to retain up to 12,000 active and reserve marines under that earlier authority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BELGIUM (94%); GULF STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (94%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF; PERSIAN GULF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY PERSONNEL; MILITARY EQUIPMENT ARMED FORCES (94%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MARINE SHIPPING (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R DICK CHENEY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



743 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Security Council Members To Discuss the Gulf Crisis

BYLINE: By Paul Lewis, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 23

 BODY:
Foreign ministers of most of the 15 members of the United Nations Security Council are expected to gather here next week to hammer out a new resolution on the Persian Gulf crisis that may still fall short of giving the Bush Administration the permission it seeks to use military force against Iraq.
The United States wants the Council to approve a new resolution authorizing military action in the gulf if Baghdad still refuses to give up Kuwait before the end of the United States' monthlong Council presidency next Friday. 
 Such a resolution, diplomats say, would allow the United States to wind up its presidency by sending Iraq's leader, President Saddam Hussein, his severest warning yet and demonstrate the continued cohesion of the international alliance Washington has assembled in the Security Council since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2.
But it is still unclear whether President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who have made a resolution authorizing use of force a major goal of their recent travels, have yet won sufficent backing to get their way next week, particularly from the Soviet Union and China, which as permanent Council members have a veto over all decisions.
 
A 'Very Precise Warning'
 Today the Soviet Union's United Nations Representative, Yuli M. Vorontsov, said Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze would attend next week's planned meeting in order to vote a new resolution that he insisted must send the Iraqi leader a "very strong, a very serious and very precise warning" to withdraw from Kuwait.
But he refused to say whether that resolution would also contain language permitting those countries with forces in the gulf area to use them against Baghdad if it still does not adhere to the Council's demands, as the United States wants.
"These are things being discussed by the big bosses," he said, evidently referring to the high-level contacts currently under way between the United States, the Soviet Union and other Council members.
He continued: "One thing is absolutely sure. There is need for a very strong warning. He must get out of Kuwait and we're not joking about that. This is not comedy hour in the Security Council."
 
Gorbachev Evasive on Backing
 In Moscow, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev also declined to commit Moscow specifically to supporting military action in the gulf and seemed vague about the precise purpose of the new Council meeting, which he also said he expected in the next few days.
Mr. Gorbachev told a press conference that he and President Bush agree that "the situation is not becoming simpler, but rather more complicated," adding, "It has potential for danger, very great danger."
"Time dictates that we call a meeting of the United Nations Security Council," the Soviet leader said. "The Security Council must examine everything. I do not rule out that the meeting will take place at Foreign Minister level in the next few days."
Mr. Gorbachev said the Soviet Union would take part in such a meeting "with great responsibility."
 
Requirements for Approval
 American officials say Mr. Baker, who as Council president this month would chair any ministerial-level meeting held in November, is planning to come to New York next Wednesday and stay through Friday if necessary.
The United States is urging the 15 members of the Council to approve a new resolution authorizing force before handing over the presidency to Yemen, the Council's only Arab member and a country that has sometimes sided with Iraq during the crisis.
For a new resolution to be approved, at least nine members must vote in favor and none of the five permanent members -- who also include the United States, France and Britain -- may vote against it.
But in practice, the 10 resolutions the Council has adopted so far in the crisis, impose economic sanctions on Iraq and declare its annexation of Kuwait null and void, have all been supported by at least 13 members, including all five countries with permanent seats.
 
Eluding Cuba and Yemen
 And a substantially reduced majority for a new resolution approving force would be seen as a setback for American leadership in the crisis.
An earlier plan for the Council president to issue an approved statement instead of voting a formal, binding resolution, appears to have been dropped, diplomats said.
That is because it might be even harder to get the unanimous agreement of all 15 members needed for such a presidential statement, with Cuba and Yemen resisting any text favored by the United States.
In London, the British Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, also told a news conference today that the Security Council would probably meet next week to discuss the new resolution that he said would sanction military action against Iraq's occupation forces in Kuwait if they do not leave.
But he emphasized that such a resolution would "not be a signal for immediate use of force but the latest of the peaceful pressures on President Saddam Hussein to get him to withdraw."
 
Foreign Ministers to Meet
 British officials say it is unclear whether Mr. Hurd would be able to attend a Council meeting next week in person because of the leadership struggle underway inside the governing Conservative Party after Margaret Thatcher's resignation as Prime Minister on Thursday. He is a declared candidate.
The French Foreign Minister, Roland Dumas, said in Paris that he also expected to travel to New York soon to take part in Security Council discussions on a new resolution permitting military action.
But he suggested final agreement might still be several weeks away.
"The United States has already prepared a text, the Soviets are reflecting on it, France has some ideas," he said. "In three weeks we can come up with a good text."
The French Foreign Minister stressed as well that there is no automatic link between adopting the new resolution and using arms.
 
Briefing by Kuwaitis
 "When we have this instrument in our hands, the question will arise as to when it is used," he said, adding that all moves against Iraq should take place through the United Nations.
Next week's proposed Council meeting will be preceeded by another session at which Kuwait's Government-in-exile plans to brief members, and the international community at large, on attrocities committed by Iraqi's army of occupation against Kuwaitis and other citizens in the territory they have seized.
Kuwaiti diplomats said they hoped Kuwaiti refugees would appear before the Council to describe some of the violence and looting they witnessed before escaping.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GULF STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); APPROVALS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



744 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. to Veto Huge Colorado Dam

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 23

 BODY:
The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency said today that he would veto construction of the Two Forks Dam in Colorado, a large water project sought by developers and opposed by environmentalists.
The Administrator, William K. Reilly, said in an interview that the proposed $1 billion dam, which would be the most expensive dam in American history entirely financed by a state and localities, would cause "unacceptable environmental damage." 
 The project was intended to augment long-term water supplies for Denver and surrounding communities, but Mr. Reilly said there were other, more acceptable sources of water that would not destroy valuable wetlands, wildlife areas and a scenic canyon. Mr. Reilly, who previously served as president of the Conservation Foundation and the World Wildlife Fund, two leading environmental groups, had spoken against the dam before.
 
Not the Last Word
 The veto, under a provision of the Clean Water Act, would be a milestone, but not necessarily the last word, in a decadelong struggle between Western developers and local officials, on the one hand, and and environmentalists, on the other. In previous disputes, Federal policies favored growth.
Mr. Reilly said the E.P.A.'s decision was final, but added, "We fully expect this to go into litigation." The decision can be challenged in Federal court.
It was the first major dispute in the last decade in which the Government came down on the side of environmentalists. It was not unexpected, given the environmental policies of the Bush Administration, which supported and helped enact the renewed Clean Air Act and opposed offshore oil drilling.
The dam was championed by Republican lawmakers in the West. Senator William L. Armstrong, Republican of Colorado, said that although the veto was expected "we're very disappointed, discouraged and upset."
 
No Federal Money for Project
 The proposed project was a huge one. The 615-foot dam was to have been built on the South Platte River near its confluence with its North Fork, about 25 miles southwest of Denver. The dam, as big as Hoover Dam, would flood six towns as well as much of Cheesman Canyon, a wilderness area beloved by trout fishers, hikers, campers and boaters, and would have turned the canyon into a 7,300-acre reservoir, creating the largest lake in Colorado. The project was to be financed locally, without any Federal money.
Officials in Denver and its suburbs contended that the area's population would nearly double to three million people by the year 2000, and that the dam was vital to insure the region's water supply. But local public opinion polls showed that most Denver residents were concerned about the project.
Mr. Armstrong said that without the dam other water sources would be found, and he warned that Weld County, a lush farming region, would be deprived of water it needs for agriculture to continue. "What it means is that some rather serious environmental and economic damage is likely to occur in my state," he said.
He said the population would keep growing whether or not the dam was built, and added: "What's really at stake are the lawns, parks and trees of the state. There will be plenty of water for drinking and bathing. The question is whether there will be the environmental amenities."
 
Dam Proposed in 1930's
 The dam was first proposed in the 1930's, but intense planning began only a decade ago. More than 40 units of government, including cities, towns, water districts, were involved in the planning, at a cost of $40 million.
Mr. Reilly said the decision to block the project was made by Lajuana Wilcher, the agency's assistant administrator for water.
The Reagan Administration had supported the project. Last year, the Army Corps of Engineers approved a permit to build the dam. Customarily, regional administrators make decisions for the E.P.A. on such projects, but after Jim Scherer, the regional administrator, indicated his support, Mr. Reilly initiated a review. Last August, Lee A. Dehihns 3d of the agency's Atlanta office, selected as an impartial official from outside the affected area, recommended against the project.
Mr. Dehihns said that the stretch of the South Platte flowing through the canyon was unsurpassed in the West as a natural habitat and recreation area, and that far less expensive and destructive alternatives were available.
Dams are as much a part of lore of the West as are cowboys and gold mines. Since 1884, when the first important dam was completed on the Bear Creek near San Bernardino, Calif., 37,000 dams have been built west of the Mississippi River.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William K. Reilly, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, says he will veto the Two Forks Dam plan in Colorado. (The New York Times); Map of Colorado showing location of the proposed Two Forks Dam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (56%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLORADO; TWO FORKS DAM (COLO)

SUBJECT: DAMS AND DIKES; ENVIRONMENT; FINANCES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VETO (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LAKES (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WILDERNESS (75%); WETLANDS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); HIKING (69%); HISTORY (57%); POPULATION SIZE (57%); OIL EXTRACTION (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN; REILLY, WILLIAM K (ADMR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



745 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Throngs Brighten Retailers' Day

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
Dispelling, if only temporarily, widespread forecasts of a gloomy Christmas for retailers, the 1990 holiday shopping season began in earnest yesterday, with stores around the country reporting throngs of shoppers streaming through the aisles.
In New York, Boston, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Seattle and San Francisco, heavy crowds surged through the shopping areas, filling the major stores for a good part of the day. 
 They were greeted by "sale" signs and special holiday sales promotions put up by nervous store managers reluctant to take much for granted even on what is considered the busiest shopping day of the year. In anticipation of the waves of customers, many stores threw open their doors at 8 A.M., two hours earlier than usual. The Rich's store in downtown Atlanta had its bleary-eyed sales clerks standing at their cash registers at 7:30 A.M., although as in most other stores, the turnout was thin until about 10.
Retail executives said the initial sales results were promising, but a few soberly noted that the first weekend after Thanksgiving Day was always a busy one.
In the noon hour yesterday, the main floor of Macy's Herald Square, the nation's largest single department store, was busy, as were the eighth-floor toy and china departments, but traffic was relatively light in other departments.
In 1989, Macy had a disappointing holiday period, resulting in heavy markdowns, which hurt operating profits.
"We are confident that this year's Christmas at Macy's will be successful and more typical than last year's holiday period," said Arthur Reiner, chairman and chief executive of R. H. Macy & Company's Northeast division, which includes the New York stores.
"We're doing a lot of business today," said Robert Gottlieb, senior vice president for marketing of the Jordan Marsh Company, Boston. "But we look at it a bit cautiously considering the state of the regional economy. But still, for a while this morning, you could hardly move in our flagship store at the Downtown Crossing."
 
 Atlanta Retail 'Encouraged'
 Donald Van Suilichem, senior vice president for marketing at Rich's Inc., in Atlanta, said, "We're very encouraged by the strong, early beginning and we are tracking at least as well as last year." Several hundred shoppers were outside the main store and the one at the Perimeter Mall, on the city's north side, before the stores opened, he said.
The longer view of store executives and customers on the remaining 31 shopping days was varied. Depending on the rise or fall of their own incomes this year, individuals and families out shopping yesterday said they were either buying more or less than last year.
Standing next to display cases of expensive jewelry at the Tiffany & Company store on Fifth Avenue, Kelly Panfil, who sells real estate title insurance in Naples, Fla., said that she was still just browsing. "Inflation is going up and I'm not making enough to keep up with it," she said. "Our market is dying."
 
 Lining Up at F.A.O. Schwarz
 At F.A.O. Schwarz, the toy and gifts store on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, shoppers lined up to get through the main doors and clotted the aisles inside. In the stuffed-animal section on the ground floor, Carole Zamor, a nurse from Pawtucket, R.I., said inflation and the economic downturn were throwing a shadow over her shopping plans for her two children, Riche 9 years old, Risha, 12.
In Pawtucket, she said, "homes aren't selling, factories are closing, people are moving out of state. Prices are going up and paychecks are at a standstill."
"It's as simple as that," she went on, "you can't buy what you'd like to buy. It makes it difficult on the family."
 
 The Talk Outside Macy's
 Outside the Macy's Herald Square store, Chris Stokes, a painting contractor from Bowie, Md., who was visiting New York, said, "We're buying more because my business is up and we have a long list of gifts."
Clifford Fournier, a retired medical technician from Green Bay, Wis., said, "We're buying a bigger family gift and fewer individual ones because prices are high and we are on a fixed income."
In Minneapolis, the Dayton Company's floor traffic in midmorning was so dense that "you couldn't elbow your way through the store," said Ann Barkalew, vice president for public relations of the parent Dayton Hudson Corporation. "Gift items for the home, like espresso coffee makers, children's wear and Christmas decorations" are selling the most, she said.
 
 Upbeat View at A.&S.
 At the A.&S. Plaza, John P. Hoeller, vice president and general manager of the Abraham & Straus anchor store, which opened in September 1989, said: "We actually started our holiday season on Wednesday with a 'Thanksgifting Sale.' The results of that, as well as the response today, show that our new store continues to perform above expectations."
Like many other stores, the Emporium's main San Francisco store on Market Street, between Fourth and Fifth, pulled out all the stops. The store, part of Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc., opened at 8 A.M. for two hours of a roof carnival and other special events designed to attract customers. It reopened for shopping at 10 A.M. The store had special departments ready, like a Holiday Express shop offering low-priced gifts like hand-massagers and fancy-design calculators, for under $25.
In Seattle, Blake Nordstrom, store manager of the Nordstrom Inc. store at Pike and Pine Streets, reported that his flagship store opened at 8 A.M. to only a small crowd. But by 9, he said, "We were awfully busy." He added, "We are very encouraged by what has happened in just the first few hours."
In New York, Peter L. Harris, president of F.A.O. Schwarz, said that "our 1 o'clock numbers are significantly ahead of last year so that shoppers appear to be buying and not just looking." The 20-store chain's catalogue sales have been strong as well, although inconsistent. "We really think we will have a very, very strong Christmas," he added, despite predictions that the toy business would suffer the same fate of lagging sales as general merchandise.
Not so sanguine was Donald E. Leftt, president of Toy Park Inc., which operates two Manhattan toy stores. He said that the widespread layoffs and business failures in the New York area could result in a poor, perhaps even the worst, season for his company since 1981.
 
 Crowded Along Fifth Avenue
 The sidewalks of Fifth Avenue were at times nearly impassable yesterday, as shoppers and tourists inched along.
Some foreign visitors seemed the most pleased with what the stores were offering. A honeymoon couple, Diego Ferro and his wife, Mercedes, both from Buenos Aires, said that they were on a buying spree during their Manhattan stay.
They had bought sheets, towels and raincoats because they were "60 percent cheaper than in our country and the quality is good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers at the A.& S. Plaza store yesterday, the first day of the Christmas shopping season, were greeted by in-store sale signs, an indication that retailers were making every effort to get the season off to a strong start. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (97%); TIF (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (97%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (80%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (80%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NAPLES, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (97%); TIFFANY & CO (80%); RICH'S INC (63%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOLIDAY TRADE RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES & SELLING (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



746 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2845 words

HEADLINE: Economic Pulse: Florida - A Special Report;
Economists Predict Florida Can Keep Recession At Bay

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla.

 BODY:
Can Orlando's economy of hotels and amusement parks help save Florida from the apparent recession up north? Economists and business leaders here are persuaded that it can, thanks to people like Mr. and Mrs. George Seagroatt.
The Seagroatts live near Oxford, England. They brought their son and daughter-in-law and two grandchildren to spend two weeks touring Walt Disney World and the surrounding attractions. One night, all the Seagroatts went to dinner at Fort Liberty, a restaurant that advertises "hoot-hollerin' good times" in a cowboys and Indians setting. 
 The morning after, as he sat outside Disney's Epcot Center, among tourists attired in Mickey Mouse shirts and eating ice cream bars that have Mickey Mouse faces, Mr. Seagroatt noted that the dinner had cost him $64.
 
A Visitors' Center

 
"What it cost us for the meal," he said incredulously, "was what it would cost us at home for the meat. Everything's 50 percent cheaper. Food, cars, clothes, electrical goods."
Tourism isn't everything in Florida, but it dwarfs everything else around Orlando, the state's No. 1 tourist destination, and by some measures it is the state's No. 1 industry. So far, Florida tourism has suffered little of the trouble that has struck many industries in northern states. Economists expect scant growth in the number of tourists next year, but they don't expect a decline, either.
Like all states, Florida has plenty of trouble, including ailing banks and rising unemployment, bankruptcies and foreclosures. The economy has been softening for the last couple of years even as Florida has hurtled from the seventh-largest state in 1980, with 9.7 million people, to fourth a decade later with 12.8 million.
But along with tourism, much of it from foreigners who are benefiting from the five-year decline in the dollar, Florida is getting help from the migration here of out-of-state retirees. They keep bringing new money into the economy, and many keep up their spending because they have less to fear from a recession than working people do.
 
Avoiding Recessions

 
Also helping the state skirt a recession are a scarcity of volatile manufacturing industries, expectations of a good citrus crop this year and less of the overbuilding that has sunk the Florida economy in the past.
Carol Taylor West, the director of economic forecasting at the University of Florida in Gainesville, predicted that Florida's unemployment would edge up to 6.5 percent next year. She said incomes and the numbers of new jobs would also grow next year, though modestly, and that by 1992 the economy should be speeding up again.
Economists note that Florida avoided the nationwide recession of 1981-82 and all others since 1950, with one exception. The Arab oil embargo in 1973 and vast overbuilding, especially of condominiums in Miami, drove the state into the big recession of 1974-75.
Florida's relationship to the national economy resembles its bouts with the weather, said Buell G. Duncan Jr., chairman of SunBank, Orlando's biggest. "We get our weather from the north and west," he said, "but we get it last, and when it gets here, it's not as severe. And then, when things get better, they usually get better here first."
 
Help From Abraod

 
More worrisome to Floridians are cracks in the underpinnings of the economy that have been magnified by the slowdown in growth: crime and overloaded prisons, clogged roads and landfills, one of the nation's weakest school systems. Pressure for new investment in the state's public works has coincided with the slower economy's lower than expected state tax revenues and resulting cuts in public spending.
In tourism, foreigners enjoying a five-year drop in the value of the dollar have been making up for a decline in business from the many Americans who have lost jobs or who have turned cautious about their spending. Foreigners account for 15 percent of the state's tourists, up from just 2 or 3 percent in the mid-1980's, said Abraham Pizan, director of tourism studies at the University of Central Florida in Orlando.
Mr. Pizam said they also spend more than Americans and stay longer -- two weeks typically, compared with four or five days. "That's our savior," he said. "International tourism."
Irwin Glick, a director in the Miami office of the Levanthal & Horwath accounting firm, said, "I think 1991 will be the same as this year," he said, adding, "People might spend a little less, and conventions might be cut a day short."
 
Less Fun at Theme Parks

 
The forecasting center at the University of Florida predicts that next year the number of tourists will reach 43.2 million, up infinitesimally from the 43.1 million expected this year. That's well below the average 6.2 percent increases of 1987 through 1990. "There'll be a significant softening," said David Lentz, an economist at the center, "not a decline but a softening."
Some of the theme parks that compete for Disney World's traffic have been struggling. Universal Studios opened its theme park here in June, but several rides did not work for a while, and the "Jaws" attraction is still down. The company has cut its attendance projections for this year to 5 million from 6 million. Another park, Baseball and Boardwalk, nearby in Haines City, has closed.
More than the slower economy, boosters of tourism worry about acts of God and war. As of this week, 27 of the state's 67 counties had been struck by a mosquito-borne disease, St. Louis encephalitis. David Adams, a spokesman for the state health authorities, said it was the worst outbreak in 13 years, with 184 presumed and confirmed cases and seven deaths. Orlando's Orange county has had one death and the most cases, 23. This month's delayed arrival of colder weather should check the outbreak, Mr. Adams said.
The rise in gasoline and aircraft fuel prices after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has also slowed tourist traffic a little, but with memories still fresh of the collapse of Florida tourism after the Arab oil embargo of the mid-1970's, hoteliers fear shortages of fuel much more. "We were devastated," said Harris Rosen, who owns four low-budget hotels and is Orlando's second biggest hotel operator after Disney. "If you want to look at what can hurt Orlando, look at the availability of gas."
 
 Too Many Buildings

 
Vacant Offices, Foundering Banks
 Apart from tourism, Florida certainly looks sick, if not as sick as some other states. The state's perennial nemesis of overbuilding is showing up now with more than 20 percent of the office space in most of its big cities standing empty. In the Palm Beach area, the Coldwell Banker real estate company reports a vacancy rate of 28.7 percent. Among the large and medium size cities the firm monitors, only Stamford, Conn., is higher , with 29.9 percent.
"But overbuilding is nowhere near where it was in 1974 and 1975," said Mark P. Vitner, an economist at Barnett Banks Inc. in Jacksonville. Little overbuilding has shown up in the residential market, and economists say office vacancy rates reached their current levels a year or two ago. With little new construction underway, demand for offices should recover when economic growth picks up, hastening the day when buildings fill up and builders get back to work.
Banks are hurting, too, if less than some of the giants in New York. Florida's biggest bank, Barnett, reported a 60 percent decline in earnings for July through September, its first quarterly decline since the mid-1970's recession. The Southeastern Banking Corporation in Miami cited a surge in defaulted real estate loans in reporting a $86.9 million loss for the same quarter, compared with a profit of $30 million in the same quarter last year.
Like Texas and California, Florida is also reeling from the collapse of big savings institutions, including the spectacular case of CenTrust Bank in Miami, whose former chairman, David L. Paul, has been charged by the Federal Government with misuse of depositors' accounts. Federal regulators, who have seized the bank, have put on the block CenTrust's shimmering, largely unoccupied headquarters.
Banks, insurance companies and other big lenders, prompted by tighter Federal regulation and a new prudence toward lending, have been foreclosing on many other new properties rather than extend the developers new loans as they often would have in the 1980's.
David A. Pederson, a real estate consultant in Fort Lauderdale, said foreclosures in the southeastern counties of Dade, Broward and Palm Beach make up 25 percent of all real estate transactions. "Usually it's minuscule," he said.
 
 Too Few Jobs

 
Unemployment Exceeds Nation's
 Layoffs, concentrated among builders, banks and military contractors, are up as well. Florida's unemployment rate was 6.2 percent in October, moderately above the national rate of 5.7 percent and comparable to the 6.3 percent rate in recession-battered Massachusetts.
"This agency will register 1 million people this year," said Robert R. Arnold, an official of the state Job Service. "We registered about 750,000 last year and about 600,000 in 1988." But Mr. Arnold said some of the applicants are people from out of state who flee to Florida when they can't get jobs at home.
Layoffs could soon be up in the capital of Tallahassee, however. Even though the Floridians' average tax burden is the fourth lowest in the nation, according to the Census Bureau, antitax sentiment runs strong. In the November election, for instance, Miami's Dade County voters rejected a one-cent sales tax to meet a shortfall in county revenues. So they now face cuts in public services.
Faced with this hostility to taxes, Governor-elect Lawton Chiles, the Democratic former Senator who defeated the Republican incumbent, Bob Martinez, promised to look first at government jobs.
 
 More Bankruptcy Filings
 Bankruptcies, too, are up. In Tampa, Alexander Paskay, chief judge of the Federal Bankruptcy Court that oversees the central region encompassing Tampa, Jacksonville, Orlando and Fort Myers, said filings of bankruptcy petitions by businesses and consumers by early November this year exceeded 10,000, the most ever and 37 percent more than in November 1989. He attributed some of the increase to lawyers looking for work but some, too, to debts amassed in the 1980's.
Apart from its robust tourist businesses, Orlando is showing some strain. Cuts in Pentagon spending have led to small layoffs among military contractors, including the biggest industrial employer here, the Martin Marietta Corporation.
Downtown, the Government has taken over a big savings institution that failed, American Pioneer Savings Bank. Of the 10 buildings that form the downtown skyline, nearly all with the names of banks emblazoning their brows, the tallest is the 35-story SunBank building, which is two years old and about 35 percent vacant.
The second tallest is a two-year-old, 28-story tower that is 50 percent occupied and now enmeshed in foreclosure proceedings. The building is a project of the city's own celebrity developer, William du Pont 3d, scion of the Wilmington Du Ponts. Mr. Du Pont's investments include the 1-year-old National Basketball Association team called the Orlando Magic, of which he is the principal owner, and a $6 million stake in American Pioneer Savings Bank, now probably worthless.
 
 But Lots of Luck

 
Built to Survive In Recessions
 Florida founders less than most states in recessions in part because only 10 percent of its labor force works in factories, where layoffs are likeliest, compared with 19 percent nationally. Thirty percent work in services, the highest rate among the 10 biggest states.
Florida's citrus harvest, decimated by last year's freezes, should help too. The United States Department of Agriculture forecasts a 50 percent larger crop this year. And like foreign tourism, Florida's foreign trade benefits from the cheaper dollar. Stephen O. Morrell, chief economist at Southeastern Bank, says trade is running 9 percent stronger than it did a year ago.
More important, Florida fares better than other states in the ways it it feeds on the other states' wealth. Tourists bring in the savings they might otherwise spend at home, and migrant retirees, more from New York than any other state, bring pension and Social Security checks, stocks and bonds and the proceeds from sale of their homes.
Lured by sun and low taxes, the retirees have accounted for almost 90 percent of Florida's population growth in the last decade. People 65 and older make up 18 percent of the state's population, the highest level in the nation. And in bringing in more and more money, they drive a perpetual motion machine that keeps the economy growing.
 
 And Ever More People

 
Retirees Put Economy in Drive
 As they come, the retirees spur secondary waves of tens of thousands of other newcomers -- job-hungry youths from northern states, the Caribbean and Latin America -- who come to build the homes and work in the theme parks, the hotels, the banks and shopping centers. Many more find they can get jobs here faster than in other states because the Florida economy creates jobs faster than most others.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that of the 11 most populous states, Florida created 190,000 new jobs between October last year and October this year, the largest relative gain of any of the six that added jobs. The people who come here to take the jobs stay on, build their homes and become new sources of economic growth.
Beyond their role in driving the economy, the retirees help the state by making modest demands on public services. They don't, for instance, use the schools. At some point, public officials fear, the retirees will make costly demands on public health services, reclaiming their contributions to the economy as they age. But those concerns may be overdrawn.
In a study last month of migration from 1975 to 1980, two professors, William Crown at Brandeis and Charles Longino at the University of Miami, found that 70,306 households of people 60 and older, mostly vigorous couples, moved from New York to Florida. But 3,420, mostly widowed and older, moved back, presumably to be with their children and, coincidentally, to seek health-care assistance there instead of in Florida.
 
 Outside Help on Taxes
 All these people from somewhere else, both tourists and new settlers, keep the government going, too. Florida, like only five other states, has no income tax. As taxes go, the 6 percent sales tax is a boon to long-established Floridians because people from somewhere else pay a disproportionate share of it.
Retirees from out of state pay a disproportionate share in buying big-ticket items -- appliances, furniture, carpets -- to equip their new homes. And tourists are taxed on nearly everything they buy, including their meals and hotel rooms, and they buy few of the things that the state exempts, like groceries and medicine.
But every so often the migration machine slows down, reducing the flow of money into the state, and it is slowing down now. Economists expect the state's population to grow 2.2 percent a year in the 1990's, well below the 3.2 percent annual rate in the 1980's. Already the rate has slipped, from 3.3 percent a year through 1987 to about 2.8 percent this year. A reason for the slower growth now is the Northeast's depressed real estate market.
More important, the baby-boom generation of job seekers who moved into Florida has settled down, to be followed by the smaller baby-bust generation born since the mid-1960's. Also, later this decade the state can expect greater numbers of deaths and departures among retirees -- the millions of retirees who moved here over the last two decades -- and Mr. Vitner says this will offset the numbers of new immigrants.
 
Academic Ignominy
 Slower population growth is a mixed blessing. The growth of demand for public works should subside, but so should the out-of-state money that helps pay for public works. The school system creates the most concern. Student test scores, already low by national standards, have been declining. And in terms of the percentage of high school students that the state graduates -- 58 percent, according to the Federal Department of Education -- the schools are the worst in the nation.
Alone among the five most populous states, it has no universities of great academic renown and little of the high-paying and innovative industry that such institutions spawn. "We don't have Silicon Valleys or Route 128's," said Ms. West, the University of Florida economist. "Neither do we have a Stanford or a Harvard. We have the lower tech of the high tech."
"Florida is an adolescent state," said Dominic M. Calabro, president of Florida Tax Watch, a nonpartisan, public interest organization in Tallahassee. "It's just emerging from the pioneer days. One thing Florida has lacked is a strong commitment to public and private institutions."

GRAPHIC: Table listing Florida's population. (Source: The Census Bureau)(pg. 9); Map of Florida. (pg. 9); Graph showing job Growth rates. (Source: Barnett Banks)(pg. 9); Graph showing hotel occupancy rates. (Source: Levanthal & Horwath)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (57%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; POPULATION; RETIREMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TOURISM (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (74%); ICE CREAM (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); FORECLOSURE (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); BANK FAILURES (64%); US DOLLAR (64%); CITRUS GROVES (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



747 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Fate of Domestic Policy Lies in a Battle of Aides

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 23

 BODY:
In an Administration in which collegiality has gone the way of the "no new taxes" pledge, the latest internecine struggle is between Richard G. Darman, the pragmatic budget director, and a group of young White House conservatives who are trying to revive the late-60's idea of putting power in the hands of the poor.
The end result of this battle will help shape the State of the Union Message, the future of White House domestic policy, and President Bush's relationship with the fractured conservative wing of his party. It will also signal whether Mr. Darman will continue dominating domestic policy. 
 Proponents of empowering the poor believe that such "positive" conservatism is the key to attracting members of minorities to the Republican Party. Their politics of self-help embraces free markets, decentralization and individual choice. They promote programs like inner-city entrepreneurship, government vouchers that allow parents to choose their children's schools, and tenant management or ownership of public housing. They want a substantial overhaul of the welfare system. Their push for individual choice does not include abortion rights, however.
 
Great Society, With a Twist
 The junior White House officials who endorse empowerment are alarmed at both the President's cozy cooperation with Democrats in budget negotiations last summer and fall, and the abdication of his pledge on taxes. Embracing empowerment, they believe, would give muscle to a vaguely defined Bush domestic policy. Some call it a neoconservative, supply-side twist on the Great Society social agenda.
They have had the encouragement and leadership of conservative lights like Jack Kemp, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia; William J. Bennett, the soon-to-be Republican party chief, and Vice President Dan Quayle.
Mr. Kemp heads an empowerment task force within the Administration. The junior officials get together for an informal empowerment breakfast once a week and invite Administration officials and outside experts to speak. Mr. Darman, who has had an open invitation, has never attended.
James Pinkerton, a 32-year-old deputy assistant to the President for policy planning who is the unofficial ringleader of the junior set, coined the term New Paradigm to describe initiatives he said were meant to change the image of poor people from a liability in society to a potential asset.
Mr. Pinkerton's last claim to fame came in the 1988 campaign, when he discovered the value of the Massachusetts prison furlough issue that would turn Willie Horton into a household name.
 
Igniting a Storm
 The New Paradigm approach, read into the Congressional Record by Mr. Gingrich in March and discussed in a speech by President Bush in April, has become a rallying point for conservatives who worry that the Bush White House lacks a purpose, a message, a vision and a set of ideas and ideals that can carry it through the 1992 campaign and the next decade.
When Tom Wolfe wrote about empowerment in the late 60's, a time when advocates for the poor were trying to seize more power from an often-bewildered social welfare bureaucracy, he called the phenomenon "Mau-Mauing the Flak-Catchers." If he were writing about the Republican empowerment movement of the 90's, he might call it "Mau-Mauing the Budget Flak-Catcher for No-no-ing the Neo-neo-ism of the Young Turks."
Mr. Darman believes in an Establishment-oriented approach, emphasizing the art of the deal, and he touched off a conservative storm last week when he poked fun at the empowerment crowd. Conceding that the "no-no-ism" inspired by a deficit-straitened economy had dampened domestic initatives, Mr. Darman dismissed the "neo-neo-ism" of the New Paradigm as mere "sloganeering."
Noting that Presidents feel obligated to come up with bold programs like the New Deal, the New Frontier, the New Federalism (twice), the New American Revolution, the New Realism, several New Partnerships and two New Beginnings, Mr. Darman said, "It's a bit like soap operas brought to the viewing audience by Tide, New Tide and Insistently New New Tide."
Mr. Darman is not alone in his skepticism about catch phrases and rushing to carry out new policy initiatives without evaluation and testing.
There is no money in Bush Administration coffers for domestic initiatives. As John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, told a conservative group recently: "There's not a single piece of legislation that need be passed in the two years" remaining in Mr. Bush's term. "In fact," he said, "if Congress wants to come together, adjourn and leave, it's all right with us."
 
History of Empowerment
 And empowerment has had a tortured history. In the Great Society era, it was a buzz word among advocates of black power who wanted to increase the power that members of minorities could exercise outside the "system" -- although with the help of considerable government money.
But as bureaucrats (flak-catchers) were harassed (mau-maued) by community action agencies financed with government dollars, many experts and many politicians came to distrust efforts to change social behavior with large-scale government intervention.
"The 1960's were a very poignant time for social policy," said Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York. "Just when the Federal Government was in a position to enact just about any social policies it wanted, the social scientists arrived and said, 'Don't waste your time; it won't work.' "
But Mr. Moynihan now praises the Republicans' attempt to revive empowerment because "at least it means they're trying something." And he concedes that the Democrats have "no competing ideas on our side."
 
This Time It's Different
 On Wednesday morning, Mr. Darman stopped by the meeting of the White House Empowerment Task Force, a group of deputy assistant secretaries and mid-level aides. "It was like a five-star general coming to the noncommissioned officers' club," said one White House official.
Mr. Darman told the group that he believed in empowerment, but that "New Paradigm" was just "phraseology" that would get the Bush Administration nowhere.
Mr. Pinkerton had been told by Andrew Card, an aide to Mr. Sununu, not to exchange any more barbs with Mr. Darman, and he kept quiet when the budget chief criticized his concept.
But Administration officials are watching the situation closely to see whether it spells the end of the alliance of Mr. Darman and Mr. Sununu. Some officials believe that Mr. Sununu will support the empowerment case as a way of wooing back disaffected conservatives, and that would put him at odds with his former partner in the budget negotiations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); POLITICS (75%); PARENTING (74%); CHILDREN (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DARMAN, RICHARD G (DIR); DOWD, MAUREEN NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



748 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 2-6
President Bush met President Assad of Syria in Geneva, setting aside suspiciions about Syrian links to terrorism. Mr. Bush said he was close to a United Nations resolution on using force. Page 1
The United Nations Security Council is expected to meet next week to hammer out a new resolution on the Persian Gulf crisis, but stop short of giving President Bush permission to use force. 4
Chinese and Soviet officials met at a hastily called conference to discuss the gulf crisis. Afterward they said the world should work for a peaceful solution if at all possible. 4 The U.S. appealed to European allies for planes and ships to carry reinforcements to the Persian Gulf to meet the logistical demands of quickly transporting American troops. 4
Price of oil rises $2.27 a barrel on Bush visit 27
News analysis: The Thatcher legacy is already being debated. Many economists say Thatcherism was a 1980's solution for 1980's problems, but those vying to succeed her say there is no turning back. 1
Margaret Thatcher completes Churchill's model 5
The candidates for Prime Minister -- Former Defense Secretary MichaelHeseltine, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, John Major, and the Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd -- each promised to unite Conservatives. 5
A bleak pessimism grips China. The Government keeps promising that reforms will continue, but the hard-liners are waging another campaign for greater influence and tighter control over culture. 1
A redesigned Soviet power structure was outlined by President Gorbachev. The union treaty would allow republics self-determination only through a "divorce process" of referendum, consensus and approval. 3
Poland's presidential race ended. The vote on Sunday is widely described as the first election in Eastern Europe to offer voters a genuine choice between candidates. 3
Voters in Czechoslovakia will elect local governments 3
Sofia Government survives vote amid protests 6
Germany's powerful farmers watch over subsidies debate27
A wave of portable laptop computers from Japan threatens the U.S. computer industry. Japan's expertise in miniaturizing electronics has strengthened its foothold in the fastest-growing part of the computer business. 1
Atteridgeville Journal: Refusing to pay for apartheid 2
 
 National 8-10, 22
The percentage of women working or job-hunting appears to have reached a plateau. Economists and sociologists say women, as a group, might be approaching the upper limit of their participation in the work force. 1
Can Florida ride out a recession? Economists and business leaders say the state's Mickey Mouse economy of hotels and amusement parks may protect the state from the economic downturns of the north. 1
A revival of the empowerment idea -- or the politics of self-help -- is being pressed by White House conservatives, who are vying with pragmatists like Richard Darman to shape the Bush domestic agenda. 8 Plans to build a dam were rejected by the Environmental Protection Agency. The head of the agency said the Two Forks Dam, a $1 billion water project in Colorado, would cause "unacceptable environmental damage." 8
A sexual assault case in Wisconsin, in which a man was convicted of raping a woman who doctors believe suffers from a multiple-personality disorder, has taken a new twist. 10
Thousands in Arizona return turkeys after threat 8
Finding on cheaper heart drug is questioned 22
Bluffton Journal: South Carolina's oyster industry ages 8
 
 Regional 23-25
The anger over taxes in New Jersey has not been limited to suburbanites. Poor and moderate-income people in cities like Newark are just as angry at high taxes and distrustful of government programs. 1 Groups are meeting to discuss AIDS at gatherings modeled after the Tupperware party. The sessions are intended to increase awareness of the epidemic among black and Hispanic women in New Jersey. 24
The Daily News lost an advertiser as union officials said Abraham & Straus had stopped buying advertisements, just days after Macy's had. The two department stores were among the paper's largest advertisers. 23
The ranks of unemployed executives throughout the Northeast is growing, and at outplacement services, the corporate casualty wards, the merchandise is moving more slowly. 23
New York's Christmas shopping season begins strongly 27
Power failure disrupts trading on Wall Street 27
The Bronx Museum of the Arts, which has struggled to establish itself as a community museum in a community not generally considered "museum-
 going," plans to spend at least $21 million to quadruple its size. 23
The first lady of New York City, Joyce B. Dinkins, has played a quiet role in her husband's political career but recently has moved more into the public spotlight. 23
A shooting at an East Village club left one doorman dead and another wounded. The police said the men were shot after an argument over whether patrons could re-enter the club. 25
Police complaint details 5-year pattern of rape and abuse 25
 
 Business Digest 27
 
 Sports
Basketball: Fathers and sons and the N.I.T. 39
Owens outlines roles for Syracuse 41
Column: Berkow on a black star 39
Football: Oklahoma beats Nebraska 39
Giant line faces a challenge 39
College games today 41
Jets try to plug holes 42
Golf: Two newcomers in Skins Game 42
Hockey: Islanders take the bite out of Jets 41
Sports People 40
 
 Obituaries 26
Roald Dahl, writer
Donald R. Ulrich, a physicist
W. M. Cobb, physician who led the N.A.A.C.P.
 
 Consumer's World 44
New way to gauge product hazards
How stores check checks
Tire pressure gauges
Guidepost
 
Arts/Entertainment
Joffrey back from the brink 11
A Romanian novelist promotes his country's heritage 16
Music: Philippine percussion ensemble 16
Dance: "A Sign of the Times" 12
Art: Surrealism in Berkeley 11
Book: Biography of William S. Paley 15
 
 Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
Editorials 20
Still cheating the disabled
A toast to Helsinki
For children, a new helper
Letters 20
Flora Lewis: Embolden Hussein's opponents 21
Mamoun Fandy: The Hawali tapes 21
Lee P. Brown: It's time to create a crime panel 21
Tom Huth: Free elections in Utah! 21
Rafael Santos: Drug lords kidnapped my brother 21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); RECESSION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); WOMEN (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); REFERENDUMS (63%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (63%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



749 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 Women are no longer entering the labor force as rapidly as they did in the 1970's and 1980's, even though they seem as committed as ever to holding jobs. The reasons, economists and academicians say, include the incipient national recession and a rising number of births in a nation with a paucity of child-care facilities. [Page 1.]
The American computer industry is being threatened by a new wave of small Japanese products, as were the automotive and office copier industries. The Japanese have a strong hold on the fastest-growing part of the business, lightweight portables. [1.]
The holiday shopping season began merrily, with stores around the country reporting throngs of shoppers, dispelling, if only temporarily, widespread forecasts of a gloomy Christmas for retailers. But special holiday sales promotions were widespread, and many shoppers expressed a need to be frugal. [27.]
Florida may be spared the apparent recession up north, thanks to Orlando's Mickey Mouse-inspired economy of hotels and amusement parks, the state's economists and business leaders say. [1.]
Any cooperation Michael R. Milken gives the Government may be too late to be of much help in filing new charges in its investigations of Wall Street crime, despite a hint from United States District Judge Kimba M. Wood, who sentenced him to 10 years in prison, that cooperation could reduced his term. [27.]
 
Markets
Oil prices soared $2.27 a barrel to $31.90 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, on the belief that President Bush's visit to the Mideast had bolstered international support for the use of force in the Gulf. Oil futures were up nearly 6.7 percent in a week. [27.]
An electrical failure at the New York Stock Exchange halted trading for more than an hour and a half, bringing trading to its lowest point since the day after Christmas in 1986. [27.]
The Dow industrials gave up 12.13 points, to close at 2,527.23 in a slow post-Thanksgiving Day session. That brought the loss in the holiday-shortened week to 23.02 points. [30.]
Prices of long-term Treasury securities declined moderately in thin trading, largely in reaction to the sharp rise in crude oil prices. But the shorter Treasury maturities were little changed. [30.]
The dollar was mostly higher against other currencies. Gold prices jumped $4.80 an ounce to $383.70 on the Comex. [36.] Soybean futures prices rose in Chicago as Soviet grain buyers prepared to visit the United States next week. [36.]
 
 Companies
Automobile dealers in the United States are cutting back orders for new vehicles, for fear of being left with inventories of unsold cars. That is leading to shutdowns of assembly plants at Ford, General Motors and Chrysler. But Japanese car companies are raising their American output, as their sales continue to rise. [27.]
Abraham & Straus has stopped buying ads in the Daily News, union officials said, as has Macy's. Neither the News nor A.&S. would confirm the report. The striking unions are campaigning to get advertisers to boycott the paper. [23.]
Yugoslavia's largest pharmaceutical company agreed to merge with the California-based SPI Pharmaceuticals Inc. The assets of Galenika Pharmaceuticals will be transferred to a new joint company, ICN Galenika, which is expected to have annual sales of $370 million. [29.]
 
 Today's Columns
Taxpayers can whittle down their income-tax liabilities now with the help of a number of excellent books and computer programs. After the first of the year, little can be done to reduce 1990 taxes. Your Money. [28.]
A way to prepare mouthwashes and medicines like cough syrup in a convenient powder form that contains no alcohol has been patented by an entrepreneur and a dentist in Houston. Patents. [28.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); METALS MARKETS (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); FUTURES (86%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (86%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (86%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (86%); ENERGY MARKETS (86%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); RETAILERS (74%); RETAIL SALES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); SENTENCING (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SALES PROMOTIONS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); THANKSGIVING (69%); GRAIN MARKETS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); SALES & SELLING (68%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); JUDGES (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); CHILD CARE (56%); POWER FAILURES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



750 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 2; Style Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Pump More Air and Less Gasoline

 BODY:
Motorists in the United States waste the equivalent of 100,000 barrels of oil a day because the tires on their cars are underinflated. Now, especially with the increases in gasoline prices, drivers who want to save money should buy an accurate tire-pressure gauge and check their tires regularly.
 Gauges are relatively inexpensive and easy to use. And it pays to keep tires up to the proper pressure: the Federal Energy Department estimates that motorists can save 2 percent of their total gas bills each year. And tires that are neither underinflated nor overinflated are also safer and last longer, and they will help a car ride and handle as it should. 
 "From a consumer's point of view, proper tire inflation makes sense because you will save on fuel and tire wear," said Clarence M. Ditlow, the executive director of the Center for Auto Safety, an advocacy group in Washington.
Mr. Ditlow and other experts recommend that motorists buy their own tire gauges because studies have found that many gauges built into service-station air pumps are inaccurate.
Tires should be inflated to the pressure recommended by the tire manufacturer or the car maker (if the recommendations differ, Mr. Ditlow said to use the pressure suggested by the car maker, for the best stability and handling). Readings, measured in pounds per square inch, should be taken when the tires are cold.
There are three types of gauges: the pencil type, also called a stick gauge, and the dial and digital types. All are accurate, experts say, but they differ in readability, durability and price.
The pencil gauge is the most common and least expensive. Many experts also say it is best because it is easy to store and hard to break, although the readings can become inaccurate if the measuring stick becomes bent or gritty.
"You can carry it around in your pocket," said Wayne Jensen, the product manager for K-D Tools in Lancaster, Pa., a maker of pencil gauges.
The major disadvantage is that the numbers on the measuring stick are small and can be hard to read in low light or by people who can't see well.
Some cost as little as $1, and good quality pencil gauges, made of either metal or plastic, are less than $5.
The big advantage of the dial gauge is readability: the pressure is measured by a needle moving across a face, which is usually marked at one-pound intervals. Experts advise buying a dial gauge that holds the reading after it is taken. An angled head (also known as a chuck) can make it easier to push the gauge against the tire valve.
A disadvantage of dial gauges is that they break more easily than pencil or digital models and will not withstand bumping around in a glove compartment as well as a pencil gauge. In 1987, Consumer Reports magazine found that every dial gauge tested lost its accuracy after being dropped onto a concrete floor from a height of three feet.
Dial gauges are also more expensive: they cost about $7 to $25 or more.
The newest pressure gauges give their readings digitally. Charlotte Hart Cuomo, the marketing director at Beverly Hills Motoring Accessories , a California mail-order company that has a showroom on South Robertson Boulevard, said the numbered displays were easier to read than pencil or dial gauges. She also said digital gauges were more convenient: some models beep when the correct pressure is reached.
But she added that although they are durable, digital gauges can be more fragile than mechanical ones. The most popular digital model sold by Beverly Hills costs $24.95.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pencil-type air-pressure gauge by K-D Tools, at near right, costs $4.30. Milton Industries Model 902 dial gauge, center, retails for about $17. The BHMA digital gauge by Beverly Hills Motoring Accessories, top right, is $24.95, plus $3 shipping. (K-D Tools (left); Milton Industries (center); Beverly Hills Motoring Accessories (right))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANCASTER, PA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR AUTO SAFETY (56%); CENTER FOR AUTO SAFETY (56%); 

SUBJECT: TIRES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRESSURE SENSORS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GAS STATIONS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); TIRE MFG (78%); TIRES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1990



751 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: ENVIRONMENTAL BOOKS;
Are We Doomed?

BYLINE: By Malcolm W. Browne; Malcolm W. Browne is a science reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THE CHANGING ATMOSPHERE
A Global Challenge.
By John Firor.
145 pp. New Haven: Yale University Press. $19.95. 
 BY now most of us are aware that sinister forces are reshaping our habitat. As the human race burgeons (it has doubled in just 37 years), it is fouling the global nest at a horrifying rate. Already we are witnessing the death of forests and lakes, the dwindling of genetic diversity and the spread of cancer.
These changes are not pleasant to acknowledge, and we cling to the straws offered by uncertainty. Since the scientists assessing the damage to our land, water and air constantly disagree with one another, we are permitted to hope that the Cassandras are simply wrong. Some commentators buttress this hope by reminding us that the earth is an astonishingly resilient place that has always managed to absorb the blows dealt by humans and nature.
John Firor, a scientist who directs the Advanced Study Program at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, in Boulder, Colo., throws ice water on such cozy assumptions. Scientific debates about the atmosphere abound, he concedes, but they are mainly about how much and how soon the dreadful consequences of our profligacy will become manifest, not whether they will come about at all. In the space of a few dozen decades man has profoundly (and perhaps irreversibly) changed the terrestrial habitat, and the rate of change is now increasing almost beyond belief. It is folly, he writes, to use scientific quibbling over details of this cataclysm as a pretext for inaction.
"The Changing Atmosphere" is about even larger human issues than air pollution. The thrust of Mr. Firor's argument is that none of the environmental issues now facing us can be considered in isolation; the danger that the warming of the atmosphere will melt polar ice and raise sea levels enough to destroy most of Bangladesh, he demonstrates, is directly related to the educational status of an African woman cooking a meal in an earthen pot over an open fire.
Mr. Firor's book is persuasive because it is based more on evenhanded analysis than on advocacy. He does not assert, for example, that failure to correct our erring ways will bring certain doom; he merely suggests that inaction will limit human options in ways that will enormously complicate our survival. He suggests that even if most animal and plant species fall victim to the environmental changes we are bringing about, we will create new, more useful species, by genetic engineering or other means. And even if our chlorine-based pollutants eventually weaken nature's ozone shield so that ultraviolet radiation wipes out global soybean production and other crops, he says, substitutes can probably be developed.
But Mr. Firor warns that if we decide to shoulder total responsibility for readapting the world to the changes we are imposing on it, we must complete our preparations before doing away with Mother Nature altogether. We must be ready with new systems of agriculture, industry, economy and society -- along with governments strong enough to make them work -- if we are not to face an agonizing period of transition.
Most of "The Changing Atmosphere" is devoted to clear explanations (illustrated by simple graphs) of the relationships between acid rain, climate warming and stratospheric ozone depletion, as well as to their causes and effects. This book could serve as a primer for anyone confused by the wealth of technical information that has been published about these complex atmospheric phenomena.
UNLIKE many books about the climate, though, this one focuses sharply on some of the social mainsprings of atmospheric change, notably the population explosion. The author repeats the familiar injunctions to wean ourselves from fossil fuels, develop alternative energy sources and use all our resources more efficiently. But he adds that "each problem discussed here, and indeed almost every global problem facing us today, is driven in the first instance and exacerbated by growth in the world's population."
He argues that only by stemming population growth -- perhaps by raising the economic and educational standards of women in the third world and by providing incentives to raise smaller families -- will we be able to manage the complications caused by pollution and the depletion of resources.
"The Changing Atmosphere" is about as agreeable as a dose of ipecac; the reader is left with a sense of astonishment that human intelligence could have permitted us to reach this predicament. But perhaps the era of complacency is ending and we have at last begun to think about saving ourselves.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CHANGING ATMOSPHERE, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (76%); CANCER (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ANIMALS (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (72%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (71%); SOYBEAN FARMING (60%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W; FIROR, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



752 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: ENVIRONMENTAL BOOKS;
If It's Broke, Why Not Fix It?

BYLINE: By Michael Oppenheimer; Michael Oppenheimer, a senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, is the author, with Robert H. Boyle, of "Dead Heat: The Race Against the Greenhouse Effect."

 BODY:
REMAKING SOCIETY
Pathways to a Green Future.
By Murray Bookchin.
222 pp. Boston:
South End Press. Cloth, $25. Paper, $10. 
 WITH chunks of the Berlin Wall up for sale and Eastern Europe rushing to join a global free market, people who question the virtues of capitalism are generally as welcome as gnats at a nudist party. But the 1980's were also the decade of the ozone hole and global warming, both of which arise chiefly from the emission of industrial gases, which increase during breakneck economic expansion, the sine qua non of capitalist success.
One of those gnats buzzing about the capitalist celebration is Murray Bookchin, who has been warning of the conflict between economic growth and environmental stability for nearly 30 years. Mr. Bookchin, the author of nine other books on society and ecology, is an anarchist in the utopian tradition, dispensing as much contempt for the totalitarian Marxists who ruined the landscape of Eastern Europe and the health of its denizens as he doles out for the capitalists. Mr. Bookchin argues that the original sin of humankind is the development of hierarchies. The dominance of one human over another, he believes, led inevitably to the domination of one sex by another, one class by another and, in a cascading sequence of hierarchies, to the domination of nature by humans.
Mr. Bookchin's solution is to recoup some of the elements of earlier civilizations, characteristics that were snuffed out by the Industrial Revolution. He envisions confederations of small communities, governments built around town meetings and shared labor based on the artisanal model of customized production. He is no Luddite, but looks to what he calls ecological technologies, such as solar energy, to restore the "balance between town and country." In fact, he expresses withering contempt for the wing of environmentalism known as deep ecology, some of whose adherents regard humans and their technologies as a cancer on the pristine body of nature. Mr. Bookchin sees nature, humanity and society as one piece. If people are fouling their environment, the problem lies in particular socio-economic systems, not in the very essence of human beings.
Mr. Bookchin is rather kind to mainstream environmentalists (of whom I am one) who try to reform capitalism with weapons like air pollution regulations. After all, someone has to forestall more Chernobyls, and it is difficult to argue credibly for reform and revolution at the same time. Yet with environmental degradation now threatening our global life support systems, reformists need to reconsider radical questions that have been banished from mainstream debate for over a decade: Can the ethic of individual gain be reconciled with the collective need for common resources, such as air and water? Can permanent growth be reconciled with the limited resilience of the natural processes that sustain us, such as climate?
"REMAKING SOCIETY" is a strident, didactic, poorly edited and downright irritating book, with so many uses of "organic" and "ecological" that it constantly teeters on the brink of mushy philosophizing. Its anthropological inferences about older societies are too sweeping to be credible, and its utopian vision seems hopelessly romantic and unrealistic.
Nonetheless, the big capitalist party of the 1980's is coming to a crashing end. Questions of fairness and wealth distribution are again in the air. Once more, nations are hostage to their voracious thirst for oil. The central governments of the two big cold warriors are in disarray. Environmentalism is no longer about wilderness protection; it's about saving the collective neck of humanity. In this turbulent context, the questions raised by Murray Bookchin, that annoying gnat, should not be ignored.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: REMAKING SOCIETY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ETHICS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AIR POLLUTION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EMISSIONS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); OZONE DEPLETION (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); WRITERS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%); 

PERSON: OPPENHEIMER, MICHAEL; BOOKCHIN, MURRAY

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



753 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy
<By>George Johnson

 BODY:
BATTLE FOR JUSTICE: How the Bork Nomination Shook America, by Ethan Bronner. (Anchor/Doubleday, $12.95.) When Robert Bork was nominated for a seat on the United States Supreme Court, he and his conservative allies considered him a sure thing. In documenting what went wrong, Ethan Bronner has written a book whose strength "is in the personal details of the story, expertly elicited and sympathetically conveyed," Garry Wills said in The Book Review last year.
KEEP THE CHANGE, by Thomas McGuane. (Vintage, $9.95.) Joe Starling, a failed painter who supports himself by illustrating instruction manuals, steals his girlfriend's pink convertible and heads back to his ranch in Montana. "I don't know of another writer who can walk Thomas McGuane's literary high wire," Beverly Lowry said here last year. "He can describe the sky, a bird, a rock, the dawn, with such grace that you want to go see for yourself; then he can zip to a scene so funny that it makes you laugh out loud. 'Keep the Change' takes up where the excellent 'Nobody's Angel' and 'Something to Be Desired' left off. In these days of hot early starts and quick nasty fall-offs, it's encouraging to see a good writer getting better."
THE TRULY DISADVANTAGED: The Inner City, the Underclass, and Public Policy, by William Julius Wilson. (University of Chicago, $12.95.) Taking on both liberals and conservatives, a sociologist argues that it is not racism or welfare so much as a declining economy that has led to the development of the underclass. " 'The Truly Disadvantaged' far surpasses other attempts to explore these complex issues," Robert Greenstein said here in 1987.
A WILD SHEEP CHASE, by Haruki Murakami. Translated by Alfred Birnbaum. (Plume, $8.95.) Disillusioned with contemporary Japan, a Tokyo advertising man with a very Western case of ennui stumbles across a right-wing conspiracy whose mastermind is a sheep with extraordinary powers. "We are on our own despoiled modern turf (a turf as international as it is locally Japanese), hearing our own irreverent colloquial language, the Esperanto of the postatomic generation," Ann Arensberg said here last year. "Haruki Murakami is a mythmaker for the millennium, a wiseacre wise man."
STRANGERS FROM A DIFFERENT SHORE: A History of Asian Americans, by Ronald Takaki. (Penguin, $11.95.) A University of California professor who is himself a descendant of Japanese plantation workers provides a panoramic look at the struggles of Asians to be accepted on an equal footing in America. "His impassioned and perceptive history is a tribute to one of the branches of the American family and a service to them all," Jon Foreman said here last year.
THE CHILDREN OF SEGU, by Maryse Conde. Translated by Linda Coverdale. (Ballantine, $9.95.) In this sequel to "Segu," the Bambara people of 19th-century western Africa are caught up in an Islamic holy war. Last year our reviewer, David Goodwin, said the novel lost something in its translation from the French, but "behind the verbiage is a bold story that refuses to sentimentalize the African tribal experience in the face of expanding colonialism."
AN OLD MAN'S TOY: Gravity at Work and Play in Einstein's Universe, by A. Zee. (Collier/Macmillan, $9.95.) Having delved into the quantum world in his book "Fearful Symmetry," a physicist explores the outer cosmos and the gravitational force that shapes it. Last year our reviewer, Marcia Bartusiak, said A. Zee "can clearly evoke the imagery hidden within a mathematical equation, treating some rather formidable material with enthusiasm and delight."
SILVER WEDDING, by Maeve Binchy. (Dell, $5.95.) As they prepare for their 25th anniversary, an Irish couple living in London face the fact that their children's lives have turned out to be disappointments. "You can sense a remarkably gifted writer beginning to flex her muscles," Robert Plunket said in The Book Review last year.
ACTS OF WORSHIP: Seven Stories, by Yukio Mishima. Translated by John Bester. (Kodansha, $6.95.) In the title piece of these recently translated works, a professor goes on a pilgrimage with his maid. "These stories demonstrate Mishima's ability to render atmosphere and theme through a complex yet orderly mixture of sharply observed physical details and introspective musings," Fred Misurella said here in January.
LOVE OR HONOR, by Joan Barthel. (Avon, $4.95.) An undercover detective for the New York City Police Department becomes so close to the mafia don he is tailing that he becomes romantically involved with the man's daughter. Last year our reviewer, Maria Gallagher, said the protagonist of this true story "emerges as a tarnished hero who wins his gold shield, but loses life as he knew it."
A CHILD'S WAR: World War II Through the Eyes of Children, by Kati David (Avon, $7.95.) A Dutch journalist compiled these first-person accounts of what it was like growing up in a war. In February The Times's Herbert Mitgang called the result "a small education in itself, a book that could well be read by young people to discover the sorrows instead of the glories of war."
A PLACE AT THE TABLE, by Edith Konecky. (Ballantine, $3.95.) As she approaches her 60th birthday, Rachel Levin is fighting cancer, pulling out of a lesbian relationship, and trying to console her friend Deirdre, who is going mad. "The attractions, repulsions, similarities and differences between these two lives are rendered with a sure and subtle touch," Barbara Fisher Williamson said here last year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas McGuane (Wiv DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); BIRDS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ASIAN AMERICANS (69%); FAMILY (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); PUBLIC POLICY (64%); RACE & RACISM (64%); CONSPIRACY (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE ROBERT HERON BORK (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



754 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 68; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Fashion;
THE GREAT AMERICAN COCKTAIL

BYLINE: BY CARRIE DONOVAN

 BODY:
START WITH SEVERAL JIGGERS OF NOSTALGIA: 1960's is this season's favorite vintage. Throw in a dash of inspiration from other designers. Chanel and Armani are the recommended brands, though Lacroix, Azzedine, Courreges and Montana are also popular. Don't forget a soupcon of saleability. Top it off with some sprinkles of originality (optional). Shake well and serve neat. That's the great American fashion cocktail for spring 1991.
Instead of assuming a cautious conservative stance -- which would have been dull but understandable considering the current bleak retail scene -- the majority of New York's designers, stylists and manufacturers have come up with surprisingly buoyant and high-spirited spring collections. At the American showings earlier this month, almost every designer stepped out with clothes that were perky and positive, even optimistically sunny. Skirts continued to be short. The dress returned with a vengeance. Pretty colors like hot pink predominated, though every designer showed something in white. Shine has become a major statement, with plastic or vinyl and splashes of sequins for day or night. But it was the ferocity of the 1960's revival that was most remarkable. Sleeveless cookie-cutter dresses, saucy A-line shapes, big heads of hair, batty eye makeup and accessories like little white gloves and small, structured handbags became commonplace. Sometimes the 60's flashback was so heady it seemed as if the only thing missing were the old Courreges white go-go boots. 
 The positive side of this 1960's flashback was that the new spring clothes had a strong underpinning of manipulated shape, something that has slid out of fashion in recent years. Not that clothes have been shapeless by any means; thanks to miracle fibers, some have fit so tight that they accentuate every line of the body. But the 60's-like silhouettes enforce a preset shape on a woman's form. One assumes designers presume that large numbers of women will welcome styles that instantly give them a trimmer structure, instead of depending on their figures to supply it. But will they?
American women have become completely indoctrinated with the sportswear concept. Mixing blazers, jackets, pants and skirts as one wishes is a comfortable, functional mode of dressing. In contrast, the 1960's attitude brings with it a high quotient of girlishness; there is almost a cartoonlike quality to a lot of this new stuff. Granted, it is the nature of fashion to change constantly; stimulation is fashion's raison d'etre. But is a rehash of the 1960's really the right direction -- especially in today's economic climate? It is doubtful that these styles have the real depth and versatility to stick it for the long run. While a sprinkling of these looks would enliven a woman's current wardrobe, a wholesale immersion in the 1960's look would truly be frivolity.

SAAC MIZRAHI WAS ONE DESIGNER WHO CAUGHT THE essence of the 1960's without slavishly reviving it. Mizrahi's clothes were blithe and bright, and his was the season's best collection. At his show, staged in a huge SoHo loft, the atmosphere was electric; international top models pranced down the long runway in their high-heeled suede mules with Pilgrim buckles, their hair and makeup done in delicious parodies of the 1960's. Many styles had Peter Pan or ruffled collars and big floppy bows at the neckline (all removable). Hems of loose chemise dresses and pleated skirts flipped high above the knees, while a few mid-calf ones flounced over mildly stiffened petticoats. They were wonderfully colored in peaches, pinks, greens, blues or whites, with shiny lashes of clear plastic (raincoats) or patent leather (zip-front jackets). Though Mizrahi's company reportedly has had problems delivering merchandise that looks like the dollars it costs and that fits to perfection, no one can question his ability to capture the spirit of the moment.
Certainly, for most designers, the intensive furrowing through the 60's has been a boost. It added an extra patina, for example, to the wares of Michael Kors, who as usual gave the trends of the day a slick rendition. And it was a natural for Carolyne Roehm, who is most at home when she has definite shapes to work with. Louis Dell'Olio, the stylist for the Anne Klein company, bounced back from a lackluster fall with his spring showing that socked the 60's message out smartly in shapes pressed from blocks of colors like red, black and white or red and fuschia. The 60's style also seemed to revitalize Carolina Herrera. Her models' hairdos may have resembled Marilyn Quayle's flip, but the clothes were younger in line and attitude. This 60's washover even affected two of America's most sophisticated stylists, Bill Blass and Oscar de la Renta. For spring, each has done some svelte chemise dresses. Blass's suits and color and pattern combinations in particular were superb.
There are, of course, some designers who always go their own way, and Ralph Lauren is definitely one of them. While he did include a sleeveless chemise -- handsomely executed in rows of wood beads and black sequins -- his strength was in his quiet, well-bred separates like softly tailored jackets, sexy halter tops or nice skirts and pants with an insouciant flip to them. Unfortunately, he has not continued his quirky uniform-influenced styles, a maverick fashion idea that had great appeal. At Calvin Klein too there was no trace of the 1960's. Instead, Klein continues to be mesmerized by the philosophy, attitude and designs of Giorgio Armani. Retailers privately refer to Klein's clothes as "Armani at half the price." This is undoubtedly why Klein has had a spectacular selling record for the last two seasons, something no other designer -- except for Armani -- can claim. And none of this has changed for next spring. Klein's smooth, easy, plain-as-possible sophisticated shapes, like Armani's, will be in sinuous fabrics shaded in beiges, greiges or whites.

HEN GEOFFREY BEENE PADDED DOWN the runway to take his bow, he was wearing a sweater emblazoned with an American flag. Why not? He's the best we've got. Completely original, totally in control of his craft and at least two steps ahead of the time any time, Beene did not come up with new ideas for next season. No 60's variations either. Instead, his collection was rife with twists on his recent inventions like slip dresses cut to show slices of skin veiled with gossamer laces and dresses with uneven hemlines. No doubt something will be made of the fact that one of Beene's models wore an ankle-length T-shirt jersey dress, but the rest of his hemlines were high as kites.
What a startler Donna Karan's collection turned out to be. Karan, who has seemed recently to have been under the influence of Armani or Italy's romanticist, Romeo Gigli, did a complete turnaround. Instead of showing slouchy and simple silhouettes, Karan has now sprung to styles that were all construction and covered with decorative zippers, sculptured buttons and satin bandings. Clearly, Karan is now heavily swayed by Parisian designers: Lagerfeld, Azzedine and Montana. Karan aficionados may have been dismayed by this turn of events, but she has obviously made a smart commercial move. Her designs looked sexy -- and in a high-style way, very salable. Vive la difference!
An increasingly important element in this country's fashion mix is the young designer label. While two of the most popular -- Marc Jacobs for Perry Ellis and Gordon Henderson -- were disappointing, others, particularly Randolph Duke, were outstanding. Duke's styles may have been inspired by the 1960's, yet they were direct and sharp as a tack. Gemma Kahng, Zang Toi and Isani have made snug Chanel-like styles laced with crunchy detailing of buttons and pockets, all in appealing color combinations like geranium with grass green.
Where does this leave women who want to buy something new but expect it to last a reasonable time? Their safest bet will be to look for a simple structured daytime dress, something they probably have not had in their wardrobes for a long time. Some of the new color combinations may be irresistible. It may even be fun to experiment with a longer skirt, a vinyl raincoat or a touch of 1960's accessories, makeup or hair. But the 60's influence is best imbibed in moderation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MIZRAHI SHAKES IT: Isaac Mizrahi after his triumphant show. Short shift under sweeping satin wrap. Pilgrim collar smock over bikini. Gauze ballerina dress with patent leather jacket; DRESSES MAKE THE MIX: Carolina Herrera's polka-dot A-line dress. White chemise by Oscar de la Renta and denim sheath by Donna Karan. Baby doll dress and coat by Carolyne Roehm. Back view of Bill Blass's geometric chemise. Tank dress striped with wooden beads and sequins by Ralph Lauren. Chemise by Louis Dell'Olio for Anne Klein. Simple shift by Calvin Klein; BEENE DISTILLS IT: Geoffrey Beene's daring silk slip dress slivered with Chantilly lace. Jersey swing dress with an uneven hemline. Beene took his bow wearing the flag. (Photographs by George Lange and Dan Lecca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: A-LINE BV (55%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; WOMEN FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); WOMEN (85%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); WHOLESALERS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: DONOVAN, CARRIE RALPH LAUREN (57%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



755 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2627 words

HEADLINE: Sad Tales of the Sagging Co-op Market

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
THERE are about 14,000 co-ops and condos for sale in Manhattan, 4,000 more than a year ago, and behind most of them there is a story about frazzled owners who wish they had managed to sell out a few years ago, before the sun went down on apartment values.
That was when market was still strong, and buyers -- including many of today's sellers -- were frantically bidding against each other to secure a foothold in Manhattan's golden mountain of rising housing prices. Now, to hear the owners tell it, the market has gone south, their apartments are losing value, and the brokers seem to be cosseting the scarce buyers rather than the anxious sellers who will pay their commissions. 
 And the buyers, well, the buyers are like neurotic pirates, larcenous but indecisive, who invade apartments almost without notice, brandish insulting offers, change their minds as the market sinks, and then come back to try to capture a home for less.
There are sellers whose apartment sales became entangled in the gears of a bitter divorce, forcing delay and further losses and more heartache. There are sellers who toyed with the idea of selling five years ago, but kept their Manhattan property because the rent it was producing was paying for new homes somewhere else.
There is a Fifth Avenue matron who was two days from a closing on her co-op when the buyer threatened to pull out and forfeit a $280,000 deposit unless she came down a half million dollars.
And there is an East Side couple who accepted the lower of two bids just because, after a year of dickering, they had come to hate the higher bidder's guts.
Yet for all their gripes and difficulties, Manhattanites who are passing through through the trials of selling often display a Zen-like calm about all that money they thought they had but now will problably never make. Alicia Chalfin, owner of Evie B. Industries, a women's clothing concern, fears she could loose more than $100,000 on her West Side apartment, but if she is upset, she doesn't show it.
"I don't happen to believe I was put on this earth to make money from real estate," she said simply.
But she did permit herself a wistful sigh about the way fate and the arrival of her now one-year old, Maurice, put her and her husband, Seth, at the wrong end of the real estate cycle, making them buyers in a seller's market, and sellers during a glut.
The Chalfins bought their two-bedroom apartment at 186 Riverside Drive, at 91st Street, in 1987, just before the stock market crash. They were also in time to experience one of the most hair-raising bits of financial chicanery an overheated market can devise: the late bid.
"We had a handshake deal at one price, and then we got a frantic phone call from the broker saying that someone else had put in a higher bid, and if we wanted the apartment we'd have to top it,' said Mrs. Chalfin. To this day, she does not know if there really was another bid.
She did know, and so did the seller's broker, that she had already hired decorators and engineers to plan extensive renovations in the apartment. It was too late to pull out, so the price for two bedrooms overlooking the Hudson River on Riverside Drive went up another notch, to $525,000.
AFTER spending $130,000 on new plumbing, wiring, walls and floors, the Chalfins are asking $575,000. "If I get $500,000 I'll be getting a lot," Mrs. Chalfin said. That would be a hard step down for a lavishly renovated apartment that the seller's broker assured her, in 1987, would never lose money.
"I feel I was misled," she said, "and I feel that the brokers these days are taking better care of the buyers than the sellers, which is a turnaround from 1987, when they were trying harder to keep the sellers happy."
Several buyers repeated this theme, that real estate brokers tend to favor the strong hand in any market, cajoling sellers when the prices were high and now favoring scarce buyers against the interests of the sellers.
Clark Halstead, a leading broker who is head of the Halstead Property Corporation, said he had heard these complaints from sellers, too.
"Any seller is going to be categorically angry with the broker because the whole process has been so disappointing to him," he said. And if today's sellers are recent buyers, he added, the anger is likely to be sharper.
"Two years ago, buyers just couldn't believe the extent to which they were being roughly handled by the brokers," he said. "They were told they had to have their offers in within an hour, and often when they got it in, the brokers would say, 'Too late, two more offers have been made higher than yours, so if you still want it you have to make a better offer, and you have one hour to do it.' The buyers were really being roughed up."
Another Manhattan brokerage, the Corcoran Group, recently invited people with apartments for sale to a seminar on tips for making the sale. The response surprised Barbara Corcoran, head of the agency, as fur coats and expensive suits overflowed the East Side meeting room. Although her speakers focused on the economy ("no recession yet") and on sprucing-up apartments ("put out flowers; lose the cat"), many in the audience wanted to talk about the anger they felt toward brokers for not getting them the price and the buyers they wanted.
"I think it's the old story of killing the messenger who brings bad news," Ms. Corcoran remarked afterwards.
David Little, a computer systems consultant, lost all of his equity in the sale of his West 114th Street co-op, yet left New York for his new job in Boston with a deep sense of gratitude to Dan Douglas, the Corcoran Group broker who arranged the sale and did so much more than just showing the apartment and conveying bids.
"This story gets really Dickensian," said Mr. Little, by way of introduction. But no Dickens novel depicted a dissolving marriage, a suddenly departed wife and the end of the double income that had made their co-op on West 114th Street affordable.
Mr. Little had bought the two-bedroom apartment for $367,000 with a down payment of his own money gained from an earlier, luckier real estate sale. Forced to sell by his wife's departure, he put the unit on the market at a modest $395,000 last September and within a month got an offer for $370,000.
But his estranged wife, who as a mortgagee had to consent to any sale, refused to go along, as she did again the following year, as the bids went lower and lower -- to $350,000 in January and $325,000 in March -- and Mr. Little's equity slowly evaporated.
Finally, Mr. Little said in an interview, Mr. Douglas got a lawyer who persuaded Mrs. Little to agree to a separation agreement that included a consent to sell the apartment. Last month, when a buyer bid $275,000, the amount of the mortgage, the sale went through. Mr. Little was wiped out, he said, but he was free. Pressed to say what he might have done differently, Mr. Little wondered whether the Corcoran Group was not a little too upscale for a co-op on West 114th Street.
"GOING to Corcoran was a big step up for Dan," he said of the broker, "but his clientele were more high scale now, and he said that some of them were concerned about living above 96th Street. Maybe if I had gone with brokers who were more West Side-y they would have brought people who already knew what a nice neighborhood it is up there."
But Mr. Little rejected any reproach. "I'm eternally grateful to Dan for getting me out of my legal entanglement," he said.
In Boston, he rents.
It was the buyer, not an estranged spouse, who drove down the price on Siri von Reis in a kind of nightmare scenario that shows how even a hard contract can fall apart in a sinking market.
Miss von Reis, a poet, had paid $120,000 for her five bedroom co-op at 1107 Fifth Avenue, at 92d Street, in 1976. In March of last year, with her children grown and no longer needing so much space, she put it on the market for $3.7 million.
The price was a little fanciful, she admits, but not out of line with the earnest admonition of a neighbor, who was concerned about the value of his own apartment, not to go below $4 million. Last February she cut the price to $3.3 million, which produced a sales contract, after much negotiation, of $2.8 million on March 23.
The buyer requested an extension in the original closing date of Sept. 17, and on Oct. 17, two days before the closing, his lawyer called Miss von Reis's lawyer with news: Because the market had gone down so much -- including during the month of the buyer's delay, Miss von Reis points out -- the buyer would forfeit his $280,000 deposit and walk away unless Miss von Reis agreed to drop the price even more, to the vicinity of $2 million to $2.25 million .
"I just felt so angry I wanted to take his money and let him go," said Miss von Reis in a voice so sunny and well-spoken that it would be hard to imagine her angry at anyone. But by then the apartment was empty, stripped of the 200-odd paintings and hundreds of books that had given it such style, and she knew buyers always seem to smell blood when they encounter an empty apartment.
Besides, her advisers at Halstead suggested, the market might sink still further and wipe out her $280,000 windfall. On top of it all, Miss von Reis had already contracted to pay $1.5 million to buy and renovate her new seven room co-op at 1136 Fifth Avenue, at 95th Street. She felt she had no choice but to drop the price, and agreed to $2.5 million and accept a truth about some New Yorkers.
"What I find hardest to accept is that he didn't come to me openly and say, 'Look, we love the apartment and we really want it, but we see the market is slipping and we feel we have to come down.' Instead he behaved in a very shabby and a very" -- she paused to dig out a scorcher -- "ungentlemanly way."
Yet taking a cut in price may be easier for those like Miss von Reis, who bought low before the big price inflation of the early and mid-80's, and Read Jackson, a Hollywood screenwriter, is one of this lucky group. In 1977, he paid all of $47,000 for a one-bedroom co-op in the Hotel des Artistes, the venerable arts colony on West 67th off Central Park West. It was just two years after New York City all but went bankrupt, and real estate values had sunk lower than the city's credit rating.
"My friends told me I was nuts, but some bankers I knew told me to buy, the city was going to turn around," said Mr. Jackson, whose current credits include the publicity video for Kevin Costner's "Dances With Wolves."
"I guess they were right," he added.
By 1985, Mr. Jackson and his new bride, Deborah Kramer, were getting offers of $400,000 for the apartment. That was the year Mr. Jackson left his job as a public television producer to move to the West Coast, and the couple might have taken all that money with them except that they found they could rent their place for $2,300 a month and cover the maintenance and their rent in Los Angeles.
"I just couldn't believe the way things had escalated," Mr. Jackson said, "but I guess I should have sold in 1985."
His first clue that things were slipping in New York came when his tenant refused to renew the lease at the same rent. In July he took his broker's advice and put the apartment on the market for $375,000, but the mood of the buyers had obviously soured.
"People would walk in and say, '$375,000 for this? Are you crazy?' and walk out," Mr. Jackson said. "The broker told me to keep it there and eventually I'd get my money, but I figured, eventually I'll be 50, too."
So with his big profit cushion, he started slashing his price, and when he reached $275,000, a buyer signed, 90 days after the apartment had gone on the market.
Yes, he said, he could have made more if he had sold earlier, but Mr. Jackson said he loses no sleep over what might have been, even though what might have been had a lot of dollar signs on it.
"I think a lot of people are still caught up in the high market, and they just don't want to let go," he said. "But that was dream money, paper money, a fantasy. Wishing for lost paper profits is chasing the wrong sacred cow."
Anne Thomas, is another ex-New Yorker who sees, with the benefit of hindsight, that selling her co-op at 340 Riverside Drive two years earlier would have been the right move. Although she would not discuss the price, she made it clear that by the time she, a stock market analyst, and her husband, an editor of specialized magazines, decided to move to Boston last summer, the market was already treating sellers with an unaccustomed rudeness.
"A lot of people starting coming in with ridiculously low bids, almost insulting bids," she said in an interview. "They didn't stand to lose anything, they just wanted to see if they could get it, and we had to tell the brokers that they would save their time and our time if they stopped bringing in bids that were 50 percent lower than the asking price."
THE Thomases gained one insight into the ways of the city's real estate market -- the often debated question of whether one should list an apartment exclusively with one agency, meaning that agency shares in the commission no matter who sells it, or take the more common approach and invite any brokerage to seek a buyer.
They accepted a broker's argument that the promise of a full commission would produce more customers in an exclusive listing, and signed such an agreement.
In the end, she said, they did not get more customers, but more of other brokers visiting their apartment, familiarizing themselves with it for the day the exclusive agreement expired to open the field to all comers.
"The number of showings went up very significantly once we took it off exclusive," she said. "So we realized that although we kept it exclusive longer than we should have, it helped advertise us among the brokerage community."
Last month, after a year on the market, their apartment sold for 23 percent less than the asking price. The Thomases did not make as much as they might have if they had sold earlier, but neither, she said, did they lose anything.
"It had its moments of anxiety, but overall I would say it was relatively painless," she said. "In the end we even had two people bidding against each other, but we didn't try to run them up too high. In that market, too many things can go wrong."
For a couple on the East Side -- he's a securities broker, she raises their two children -- things also went oddly right when it came to getting a $15,000 laugh on a devious buyer.
The woman, a client of the Cochran Group who related her experience on condition that her name and address be omitted, had put their apartment in the East 80's on the market a year ago at $775,000 so the family could move to a bigger co-op 10 blocks north.
The family became embroiled in a long and difficult negotiation with a bidder who finally agreed to a price but, before making a deposit, changed his mind. The market was still falling, the bidder said, and he would rent instead.
Angry and frustrated, the couple waited another year, watching their equity shrink, until late last summer. Then two bids came in, one for $590,000 from a young couple who were about to marry, and the second from the vanished bidder of a year before. His offer was $15,000 higher than that of the couple but $100,000 less than the price he had shaken hands on last year.
"My husband and I said, well, $15,000 is $15,000 and that's a lot of money, but we just said, the heck with this guy, he's not going to get away with a stunt like that, we can't let him have our apartment," the woman declared. "So we gave it to the couple, and when we told the man we had gone with the other couple, he almost dropped dead."
And she laughed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Seth and Alicia Chalfin, with son, Maurice, expect a large loss on Riverside Drive co-op. (Bill Swersey for The New York Times); Read Jackson cut his profit sharply by not selling Hotel Des Artistes co-op in mid-80's. (Michael Tweed for The New York Times); David Little, who lost money on his West Side co-op, now rents. (Cindy Loo for The New York Times); Seminar on selling an apartment sponsored by the Corcoran Group. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (58%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (58%); CO-OP '82 UA (58%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (58%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (58%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (58%); CO-OP STAR RT (58%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (58%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (58%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (58%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (58%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; PRICES; CONDOMINIUMS; COOPERATIVES RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



756 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Perspectives: Multifamily Workouts;
The Listing Ship of Overfinanced Rentals

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
IN moderate-income neighborhoods of New York City, the late 80's were a time of feverish property buying by a handful of owners. Prices were paid by some on the basis of heady expectations of what rents might be expected in the short term for upgraded buildings, and how successfully they might be converted to co-ops.
The morning after has arrived. The largest such buyer, Abram Gin, and his management company, Artha Mangagement, was looked upon only five years ago as the city's leading rehabilitator of older rental buildings. 
 Now he and his company are both in Chapter 11 bankruptcy, along with his partner, Alex Zaika, and Mr. Zaika's construction company, All-Z Construction. A trustee has been appointed in Federal court to manage and dispose of a large portfolio -- 71 buildings with 2,900 apartments in northern Manhattan and the Bronx.
Thirty lenders are holding $100 million in first mortgages on the properties, $20 million in second mortgages and $10 million in third mortgages, said the trustee, John Pereira. General creditors such as suppliers and small contractors are owed $20 million more.
Artha Management's has not been the only failure among residential owners. The youthful investor Steven Green lost 11 properties to lenders. Ike Portnoy of Forest Hills, Queens, operating under the name Gem Management, also lost a handful of buildings. Receivers are managing them.
The toll in these failures embraces not only owners and their partners and lenders but also many small businesses and contractors who are owed money. Tenants of affected buildings may have experienced a loss in services. That should improve under receivership management.
The longer-term issue is how the shakeout will affect the prospects for investment in moderate-income housing. Much of it came about because of a ready availability of credit. Will lenders turn away from the Bronx, Brooklyn and northern Manhattan, large centers of rental housing? Some say that this is already the case, although it may result mainly from market conditions generally.
The principal lender of the 80's, the Federal National Mortgage Association, of Freddie Mac, is already out of the market for new loans. During the decade Freddie Mac vastly increased its urban portfolio, which for New York and New Jersey currently stands at 2,847 loans with a mortgage value of $2.69 billion. Most of these loans are in the Bronx, Brooklyn or Manhattan.
Freddie Mac reports that $147.9 million in loans on 154 properties New York or New Jersey are either in foreclosure or delinquent more than 60 days. This is a 5.3 percent delinquency rate, which compares with 3.8 percent nationally.
The combination of the Artha Management failure and the rise in delinquency on Freddie Mac loans draws attention to excessive financing's potential to be as lethal a blow to moderate-income housing as insufficient financing. In a sense it is the other side of the redlining coin.
MR. GIN, the founder of Artha Management, is a civil engineer who emigrated from the Soviet Union in the mid-70's. He learned English while driving a taxi for two years and began slowly to buy and renovate small buildings. Later he did moderate rehabilitations financed by the Community Preservation Corporation and the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, in northern Manhattan and the Bronx. Nine of these buildings are being managed by Ralph Langsam Associates, a Bronx management firm. They were not overfinanced and the lenders are not likely to experience losses when the properties are resold.
Mr. Gin also built a big organization that needed a large cash flow. At one point he had 400 employees, including superintendents, with an office staff of 150. He entered into ventures with Time Equities, Inc., amajor converter, and received financing from Mark Scharfman, a mortgage lender. According to Mr. Pereira, Mr. Gin gave control of 60 properties to one or the other.
The major Artha buying spree came in 1988. "Gin bought more in 1988 than in all the other years combined," said Mr. Pereira. "He created the market in Harlem. If others would pay $1.5 million, he would pay $2 million."
The management that has inherited most of this inventory is Norwax Associates, a 30-year-old firm based at 1 East Fordham Road. Norwax is managing 55 properties for the United States trustee.
"Artha was rehabilitating apartments and renting them out for $600 to $900," said Jerome Waxenberg, a principal in Norwax. "They only problem is that in many of those locations people can't afford rents that high. It's only a question of time before a lot of those tenants default."
Mr. Waxenberg said he would lower asking rents in vacant apartments of many buildings to make them affordable to people earning about $18,000 a year. People at that income are not likely to be able comfortably to afford rents of more than $500 a month.
Mr. Waxenberg gave the example of the three occupied buildings that Artha renovated at 145-155 Edgecombe Avenue in Harlem. "It was a decent job," he said. "They did steamcleaning and pointing, put in new windows, new boiler and burner, new front doors, new intercom, new apartment entry door on all units, new roof." The building needed the work, he said. But the problem is that the market cannot afford the rents asked for the vacant apartments. Moreover, since some existing tenants have trouble meeting the new rent levels, delinquencies have risen.
ACCORDING to Mr. Pereira, the trustee, payments have been suspended on the mortgage liabilities and debt to general creditors, and money from rents is going to operations and escrow accounts for taxes to the city, which total $2.2 million a year. Creditors will be repaid gradually from the proceeds of sales of the buildings.
As for Freddie Mac, many outsiders believe the seeds of its loan problems were planted by the underwriting standards it adopted when it determined to build up its portfolio of urban multifamily loans in the 80's. It was lending $8 for every $10 of appraised value, but standard appraisal techniques may have given a rosier picture of operations of New York City moderate-income apartment house than justified.
Some mortgage brokers who got Freddie Mac financing for building owners -- so-called servicing agents -- were offering income data based not on actually collected rents but rather on nominal legal rents, insufficiently accounting for the gap caused by delinquencies. Values were derived from "comparable" market sales, which were often at prices driven by expectations of near-term co-op conversions. And the amounts of capital needed for maintenance and repair were sometimes drastically underestated.
Furthermore, some owners compounded the problem by getting second and third mortgages on properties, often without authorization from the first mortgagee. Now large increases in property taxes and sewer and water charges are combining to threaten overfinanced buildings even more. Increases in fuel oil prices loom. And a weaker economy may have weakened rent-paying ability generally. Some owners declined to take all the financing that Freddie Mac was offering. Others evidently overindulged.
Now, as many buildings are seen to need such expensive improvements as new plumbing, it becomes difficult to provide the financing without partially writing off existing loans.
A year ago, representatives of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition went to visit Freddie Mac officials to complain about conditions in various buildings Freddie Mac had financed, and last October they met with them again.
Coalition leaders said they urged the mortgage lender to assure enforcement of repair clauses in their mortgages, resume lending but in a "responsible" fashion only, and consider turning over foreclosed properties to tenant associations and nonprofit housing companies.
Nonprofit companies are unlikely to be able to put enough of their own capital into a purchase to satisy creditors. At the same time, merely to change operators in overfinanced properties can be a recipe for decline when operating costs -- for water, taxes and fuel -- are rising. The financial underpinning of housing must be secure before decent housing conditions can be expected.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Artha Management renovated 145-155 Edgecombe Avenue in Harlem. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (85%); FNM (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARTHA MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; BANKRUPTCIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; CREDIT REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); FORECLOSURE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; GIN, ABRAM

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



757 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Energy Use;
Steps To Lower Fuel Bills

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
THE specter of going through the winter with sky-high heating and utility bills is a powerful reminder of the need to revive some of the energy-saving measures that lapsed into disuse after fuel prices dropped in the late 70's. The measures are also worth considering because they could help make a home easier to sell.
"Since the oil scare began in August, buyers have been asking a lot more questions about energy-saving devices when they go to look at a home," said Ginni Treadwell, manager of the Madison, Conn., office of Prudential Connecticut Realty. "They want to know about insulation levels and how they can bring more sunlight into a house. They ask about the availability and cost of wood. In the last two weeks I've even had questions about which way a house was facing -- questions we haven't heard in years." 
Take, for example, the attic, traditionally viewed by experts as the most important place to insulate and therefore one that most people would assume was adequately treated during the energy crisis of the 70's.
 Not so. A 1988 survey by the Alliance to Save Energy, a nonprofit group based in Washington, suggests that 60 percent of the one-family houses in the Northeast may still have underprotected roofs. While attic insulation should be 10 to 14 inches deep, the houses surveyed typically had only 4 to 6 inches.
"We were astounded by the results," said Bion D. Howard, a researcher with the Alliance. "The older homes were especially low."
 In some cases, homeowners had been misinformed about their needs. In others, the low level of insulation came from what is known in the industry as "diminution" -- shrinkage resulting from improper materials, faulty installation or roof damage. Thus Mr. Howard recommends that all homeowners check their attics, especially if a new roof has been installed within 10 years or there has been a change of ownership.
 The alliance also discovered that many homes and multifamily buildings still use single-pane windows, despite the barrage of publicity about the value of storm windows or double-paned replacement windows.
"We know that single-pane glass is 10 times less energy efficient than a wall," Mr. Howard said, "and that a change would provide one of the highest returns on investment."
 The other major recommendation from the alliance is to install a "smart" clock thermostat. Considered a costly hi-tech item 10 years ago, it is now available from most hardware stores for around $30. It can be easily installed by a homeowner and programmed to automatically lower the heat at night and in those day hours when family members are normally out of the house.
 However, Mr. Howard warned against lowering the temperature more than about 10 degrees below normal at any time. Too much energy will be needed to get the temperature back to comfort level.
 State-financed low-cost, or even no-cost, loans are still available in most areas for energy-related improvements. Details can normally be obtained through the state's energy office (under state listings in the blue pages or by calling the National Association of State Energy Officials at 1-202-639-8749 for a local referral). In some places the local utility companies are handling such loans.
 Utilities also do home energy audits. These started about 12 years ago and although some were dropped when consumer enthusiasm and energy prices started waning in the mid 1980's, a sizable number remain. New York, for example, still requires its utility companies to offer these audits free.
 Consider the Long Island Lighting Company's updated SAVINGPOWER audit program. Available for any home built before 1980, it is conducted by an energy specialist who spends about an hour in the home and provides a written report three weeks later that analyzes the needs and estimates the relative energy efficiency of the mechanical systems and major appliances.
OF particular interest is a new feature the utility started in July. It calculates the percentage of the monthly bill consumed by a particular appliance -- say, the refigerator. "We tend to forget how much of our bill is due to the appliances we use every day," said Mary Ring, Lilco's energy conservation supervisor.
 One homeowner, for example, was told that 26 percent of her electric bill was traceable to the air-conditioners, even though it had been a relatively cool month.
"It could have meant they had some old window units that needed replacing or were inadequate for the space," said Ms. Ring. "Or perhaps the family was leaving the air-conditioning running longer than necessary. In any event, it gave them the opportunity to think about making some useful changes."
 The energy audits are showing, she said, that the refrigerator is probably a household's worst energy guzzler, representing, on average, 25 percent of a month's bill. One reason is that most are more than 10 years old and thus built when energy efficency was not a serious design consideration.
"Also, most people don't clean the coils," said Ms. Ring. "The seals also get worn."
Replacement might therefore be a worthwhile investment. Other energy could be saved, said Ms. Ring, by remembering to run a dryer or dishwasher only with a full load.
The American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a nine-year-old conservation group with headquarters in Washington, has just published a 250-page paperback book called "The 1991 Consumer Guide to Home Energy Savings." Full of brand name evaluations to help a homeowner make more knowledgable purchases and including useful life style tips, it is scheduled to be in most bookstores starting this month for $6.95.
 Warren Cronacher, president of Tauscher Cronacher, home inspectors of Rockville Centre, L.I., warns against the following common blunders he notices in homes he visits and that he maintains gobble energy: allowing plush carpeting to prevent baseboard heaters from circulating hot air freely, leaving a fireplace damper open when it is not in use, leaving the garage door open day and night and forgetting to seal off an attic fan in the winter.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL CONNECTICUT REALTY (57%); ALLIANCE TO SAVE ENERGY (55%); ALLIANCE TO SAVE ENERGY (55%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; HOUSING; HEATING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER REAL ESTATE (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); THERMAL SENSORS (75%); FAMILY (70%); HARDWARE STORES (50%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



758 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 10; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Development Rights, Affordable Housing

 BODY:
The article "State Program Keeps 'Em Down on the Farm" (Oct. 28) underestimates the significant economic and social costs of the state program of buying development rights from farmers. Obviously, for the state to pay $8,000 to 9,000 an acre for such rights appears a bit frivolous during a time of economic and budget crisis.
More importantly, this program incurs an even greater economic and social cost by actively discouraging the development of affordable housing at a time when the same state government is trying to encourage such construction. Typically, affordable housing is most likely to be built on farmland peripheral to urban areas such as Levittown in the 1950's, the San Fernando Valley in Southern California, and rural areas of Connecticut. Low land prices provide developers the opportunity to create housing at affordable prices. 
 When the state effectively removes land from the marketplace, the government directly eliminates one affordable housing development opportunity. Like restrictive zoning, government purchases of development rights reduces the supply of developable land and drives up the cost of the neighboring land and housing.
It is not surprising that farmers and their neighbors, who economically benefit from higher land prices, are advocates of the state's program of purchasing development rights.
 
JIM PURNELL
 
Greenwich
The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters for publication should include the writer's name, address and telephone number. Letters should be addressed to The Editor, Connecticut Weekly, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. We regret that because of the large volume of mail received we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; HOUSING; FINANCES REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WRITERS (65%); 

PERSON: PURNELL, JIM

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



759 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Opponents Remain Wary as Pipeline Construction Approaches

BYLINE: By CHARLOTTE LIBOV

 BODY:
AFTER a four-year fight, backers of the newly approved $600 million natural-gas pipeline from Canada to Long Island say that they are hoping to begin construction in Connecticut in the early spring.
The first task will be to obtain the remaining rights of way for the Connecticut portion of the 370-mile pipeline, which should be easier now that a Federal agency has approved the project, said Gary Davis, a spokesman for the Iroquois Gas Transmission System, the pipeline's developer. 
 About 40 percent of the land needed for the project in New York and Connecticut has already been obtained, he said, although the percentage for Connecticut alone is probably lower. Iroquois had encountered resistance from some propety owners along the route, Mr. Davis said, adding that much of that opposition should evaporate, now that the project has been licensed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The commission gave unanimous approval to the project on Nov. 14.
In addition to seeking the rights of way, he said, Iroquois will begin seeking bids for the purchase of pipe and building materials and for the construction of the underground pipeline. "We just signed an order for $91 million worth of pipe," Mr. Davis said.
Since it was proposed more than four years ago, the pipeline, which will carry natural gas from western Canada to six Northeastern states, had engendered bitter opposition. Steven J. Whitman, executive director of the Housatonic Valley Association in Cornwall, which has been active in the pipeline fight, said his group will soon decide whether to appeal the decision.
 
Positive Changes Noted
 "We haven't made a decision on appealing it yet," Mr. Whitman said. "Despite the fact that we're in disagreement with the decision, we feel there have been many changes which have been positive." He noted that the pipeline route is now shorter than originally proposed, and an auxiliary pipeline, known as the Farmington Lateral, which would have crossed through several additional Connecticut towns, was dropped.
Anyone seeking to appeal the license ruling must file a petition for a rehearing within 30 days; the commission then has 30 more days to respond. Only after that would a complainant be allowed to file an appeal in Federal court.
The gas will be sent from western Canada to Iroquois, Ontario, through the Trans-Canada pipeline, and then south into New York State at Waddington. It would cross the Hudson River south of Albany and turn east at Poughkeepsie. The pipeline would enter Connecticut at Sherman and pass through New Milford, Brookfield, Newtown, Monroe, Shelton, Stratford and Milford before crossing Long Island Sound to Northport, L.I.
Mr. Davis said the pipeline will be built in three stages, with the first, under Long Island Sound, proceeding this winter. Construction on the Canada-to-Albany segment would start in April 1991 and continue through October, he said. The rest of the pipeline is to be built between June and December 1991. Gas will start flowing to Albany next November, he said, and through the entire pipeline in January 1992.
The project is backed by a consortium of 13 fuel and energy companies in Canada, New York, Connecticut, and other parts of the United States.
Iroquois said it will maintain close contact with the Connecticut Siting Council, the state agency that has jurisdiction over the pipeline. In October, the council approved the pipeline's Connecticut portion. But that approval came with several stipulations designed to insure proper construction, said the council's executive director, Joel Reinbold.
"This is a very large, complicated project which has the potential for a great deal of environmental damage," Mr. Reinbold said, adding that the council will require a "very, very refined version of the construction plan."
 
Independent Inspections
 In addition, he said, the council is requiring Iroquois to submit detailed plans on the protection of trees and vegetation along the route, as well as marine life, like the oyster beds in the Housatonic River and Long Island Sound.
Special construction techniques in environmentally sensitive areas must be used, he said, and land inhabited by songbirds and used for wintering over by bald eagles must be taken into consideration. The council is also requiring independent inspections of the construction, Mr.Reinbold said.
Mr. Davis said he does not foresee any problems in complying with the Siting Council's requirements.
During its discussion earlier this month, the chairman of the Federal commission referred to the Iroquois issue as "one of the most contentious" to come before the panel. Since the filing of the plans in the spring of 1986, the proposal has sparked much opposition along the proposed route, which changed during the years of debate.
The path was shifted to spare several Litchfield County towns originally on the pipeline's route. Opponents said the change was made because of opposition from the towns' politically influential and famous residents. The pipeline's backers maintain that the shift was made for economic reasons.
Among those expressing disappointment at the Federal regulators' decision was Terry Jones, a fifth-generation farmer whose Jones Tree Farm in Shelton lies in the path of the pipeline. He said the project imperils the future of his farm, as well as others along the route.
"In our case, it threatens to open up access corridors from highways and subdivisions," Mr. Jones said. "It'll be a pathway, and vehicles could cut across it, which is really why we're opposed to it."
 
Echoes of Persian Gulf
 Mr. Jones added that now that the pipeline has been approved, he is "hopeful that the people making decisions on the final route will be sensitive to our concerns."
Henry Dutton, chairman of the Northwest Sherman Civic Association, said he is very upset about the approval. He said the Federal regulators acted hastily, possibly because of the perceived threat to the nation's oil supply posed by the Persian Gulf crisis.
"There's been so much hysteria over this Gulf situation and the impact it has on oil, that it's been hard for the ordinary person to evaluate," Mr. Dutton said. "But it really is a tempest in a teapot."
Liba Fuhrman, chairwoman of the Stop the Pipeline organization in New Milford, said an appeal is still possible, although it depends on what other groups want to do.
If construction does proceed, she said, "We'll be working very closely with the Connecticut Siting Council," to make sure all precautions are taken.
But Patricia Pellegrini, head of Newtown Opposition to Pipeline Encroachment, said she did not see how the project could be stopped.
"At this point," she said, "we've done as much as we can do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: IROQUOIS GAS TRANSMISSION SYSTEM (57%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK STATE; CANADA; LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PIPELINES PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (93%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (73%); PETITIONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (72%); APPEALS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: LIBOV, CHARLOTTE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



760 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Regional Approach To Services Reconsidered

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
IN a recent speech at the New Jersey State League of Municipalities convention in Atlantic City, Gov. Jim Florio, as a way of countering the state's mounting fiscal crisis, exhorted municipal officials to take a new look at an old idea: regionalization of municipal services.
The concept of regionalization, which has had a long and controversial history in New Jersey, is perceived by some as the antithesis of the state's time-honored doctrine of home rule and by others as the most efficient and cost-effective way of running the state's 567 municipalities. 
 Some say that regionalization makes elected officials less accountable by shifting responsibility for important municipal functions to "anonymous bureaucrats."
Police and fire officials say that regionalized public safety departments would not be as responsive to citizens' needs as a local department and that it would be difficult under the best of circumstances to combine varying contractual agreements covering salaries, pensions, medical benefits and vacations. Proponents of regionalization, however, say the idea has proved effective in such areas as cooperative purchasing systems, already in place in most counties, and in the 70 regional school systems now operating in the state.
The call for a greater focus on regionalization comes as administration officials grapple with a declining economy, an angry electorate and the realization that despite recent tax increases, decreasing revenue will result in a $600 million shortfall in the state budget.
"I don't need to convince most of you about the merits of regionalization," Mr. Florio said in his speech to municipal officials 10 days ago. He cited examples of successful regionalization efforts like joint libraries, combined police and fire communication systems, countywide recycling programs and shared health inspectors.
"I think regionalization will have popular support as well," Mr. Florio said. "People care a lot more that they get good services at good prices than they care about who is actually providing those services."
But political experts say that Mr. Florio's assumption of popular support for regionalization may be unjustifiably optimistic.
"Everybody talks about greater efficiency," said Dr. George Sternlieb, professor emeritus of city planning at Rutgers University in New Brunswick. "But in a society like ours, people want the ability to walk down to City Hall and holler, and they're going to be kind of upset if somebody takes that ability away from them."
 
From Town Hall to 'Anonymous Place'
 The establishment of regionalized municipal services, Dr. Sternlieb said, does just that.
"The real functions of government, and the people to complain to, disappear from your local Town Hall and reappear in some anonymous place," he said.
In addition, Dr. Sternlieb said, regionalization will meet with opposition from many local officials who will be hesitant to relinquish control of important municipal entities like police and fire departments and municipal courts.
"It absolutely obliterates home rule," Dr. Sternlieb said. "You'll have the name but not the essence."
Home rule has long been highly valued in New Jersey. Essentially, home rule allows local officials to govern their municipalities with little outside interference. At the same time, it also provides residents with relatively accessible officials who are directly responsible for municipal functions.
And while most officials agree that regionalization will at the very least dilute the concept of home rule, some legislators say that municipal officials may have to make that sacrifice in order to keep tax increases to a minimum.
"I happen to believe that home rule is a good servant but a harsh master," said State Senator Gabriel M. Ambrosio, Democrat of Lyndhurst. "But we've got to make government smarter and more efficient because the tax dollar is constantly shrinking."
<> <> Mr. Ambrosio said he and other lawmakers were looking for ways to legislatively encourage regionalization without requiring it.
 
Throwing Out the 'Carrot'
 "What we're trying to do is come up with program of financial incentives that rewards municipalities for combining their resources," he said. "We want to throw out the carrot, but we don't want to see regionalization mandated by Trenton."
The Assembly minority leader, Garabed Haytaian, Republican of Independence, said that while he agreed that regionalization should not be required, he did not believe that financial incentives should be used as "a carrot and a stick."
"That's still a mandate, and in New Jersey today, mandates are not looked to very kindly," Mr. Haytaian said. "I would rather see municipalities agree to regionalize without giving them any outside incentives."
 
Joint Street-Paving Program
 With varying degrees of success, some municipalities have already made attempts at combining their resources. The Bergen County towns of North Arlington, Lyndhurst and Wood-Ridge, for example, recently entered into a joint street-paving program.
"We all share the same engineer, so we went out for joint bids on projects in all three towns," said Mayor Leonard Kaiser of North Arlington. "If we are going to have to make do with less, then we're going to have to get into more of these cooperative agreements."
But some municipal services, Mr. Kaiser said, may not be as easy to combine with other towns as street paving. "When I call the police," he said, "I want a North Arlington police officer to show up at my door."
That sentiment is shared by residents of the Warren County borough of Alpha, whose police department was combined with that of neighboring Pohatcong in 1981. "A majority of the residents were displeased," said Chief John Hajdu of the Alpha Police Department. "They felt that they lost their personal touch with the police department."
The two departments worked together for five years, Chief Hajdu said, before voters in Alpha put the issue on the ballot and returned to separate departments in 1986.
 
'Both Desperately Shorthanded'
 And though residents of the two towns once again have their own police departments, that change did not come without a cost.
"Now we're both desperately shorthanded," Chief Hajdu said. He added that from a public safety perspective, the merger had been successful; the problem, he said, was the public's perception.
"The two governments rushed into it without any planning," he said. "But the people just weren't prepared for it."
Officials in Bridgewater, Somerville, Branchburg and Raritan, who are also considering consolidating services, are hoping to avoid that kind of mistake.
"We have embarked on a major program of merging, consolidation and regionalization," said Mayor James T. Dowden of Bridgewater. Officials of the four municipalities have set up separate task forces to look into the merging of police departments, public works departments, courts and school systems.
 
School and Court Systems
 While consolidation of police departments and public works departments require mainly economic analyses and logistical changes, the merger of municipal courts and school systems appear to be more complicated. By law, when municipal courts are combined, for example, the power to appoint judges and prosecutors passes from local officials to the Governor's office.
And with regard to regionalizing school systems, Mr. Dowden said, officials are finding that they cannot consolidate on a trial basis first to assess the effectiveness of the merger. "You can't try things with the school systems," Mr. Dowden said. "The law provides for marriage and no divorce."
Many school systems, however, have already successfully regionalized.
"There are 70 regional school districts containing many municipalities of many different sizes," said Frank Belluscio, spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association, a federation of more than 600 local school boards.
 
Diversity in Courses
 The incentive for regionalization of school systems, Mr. Belluscio said, is increased services at lower costs. Course offerings, for example, can be more diverse in a larger school system and the financial incentives are readily apparent.
"Automatically you find you have to employ fewer people," he said. "Instead of having two superintendents of schools, for example, you suddenly have one."
Another area of successful cooperation among local governments involves cooperative purchasing. Daniel Kaminski, a community service officer in the State Department of Community Affairs, said there were 29 cooperative purchasing systems registered in the state. Those systems consist of 678 different governmental entities.
"Municipalities, school boards, counties, commissions -- all have common needs," Mr. Kaminski said. When several group together, he said, buying power increases, "and everybody gets a better price."
Not all municipal services can be so easily regionalized, however, and the example often cited is fire protection.
 
Fire Protection Studied
 In Hudson County, for instance, officials have conducted at least two studies over the last 20 years aimed at combining municipal fire departments; one examined the possibility of a countywide department, and the other assessed the merits of a North Hudson department. Neither study resulted in any change in the fire departments themselves, though officials did establish a fire communications system serving all of North Hudson.
William F. Flynn, president of the New Jersey State Firemen's Benevolent Association, a Rahway-based union representing 5,100 of the state's firefighters, said there were built-in obstacles to forming a regional fire department when starting with established departments.
Salaries differ from municipality to municipality, he said, as do health benefits, vacations, minimum staffing requirements, sick leave and other contractual agreements.
In addition, he said, in a combined department there are usually fewer promotions available, making regionalization objectional to the rank and file, and there is always the issue of which chief will ultimately be in charge.
On the other hand, Mr. Flynn said, there might be a hidden advantage for firefighters who find themselves part of a regional fire department.
"Maybe the towns will all get together and choose the contract with the highest salaries, and the best benefits and give them to all involved," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; LOCAL GOVERNMENT CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TAX LAW (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



761 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 25; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW JERSEY

BYLINE: By Anthony DePalma

 BODY:
PATRICIA GRIFFIN and her two children started this year living in a single room at the Carlton, one of Newark's biggest welfare hotels. They had spent a dreary Christmas there. They had marked a bleak New Year's there. They worried they might be in that room for a long time.
Then her social worker told Ms. Griffin about Harmony House, a transitional housing complex in the Central Ward. Ms. Griffin did not know anything about Harmony House, but she knew it had to be better than the rank hallways of the Carlton. 
 On Feb. 23 she packed her family's belongings into seven plastic garbage bags, loaded them onto the back of a large truck that made the bags seem even more inadequate, and rode up front with the driver to Harmony House. On her first day in the one-bedroom apartment where she was supposed to put back together the shattered pieces of her life, she swore she would be out by June.
"I think I can do it," she told a reporter a few days later. "As a matter of fact, I am going to do it."
Almost nine months later, on a wind-whipped day in the middle of November, Ms. Griffin was still at Harmony House. Desire, even conviction, it turns out, had not been enough. Not in Newark. In an interview, she admitted that part of the reason she had not yet found her own place was that for a while she simply stopped trying. It was too hard to go on, too easy to just sit back and let somebody else worry about her.
But it was more than just that temporary lapse that trapped Ms. Griffin, and those other causes underscore how intractable this problem of homelessness has become in the cities of New Jersey and the nation.
They are not in the news much anymore, especially when the weather remains unseasonably warm, but the homeless are still out there. Some 700,000 on any given night are sheltered by the streets or good will, according to the National Alliance to End Homelessness.
People like Ms. Griffin did not benefit directly from the economic expansion of the 1980's. She did graduate from Shabazz High School in Newark, but that did little to prepare her for the kind of jobs available today. And besides, though she graduated in 1975 when she was just 15 years old, with high marks in math, history and English, Ms. Griffin had a baby the following year.
She has not always been on welfare. She used to work as a security guard, and just over a year ago she was working at the big garage on Doremus Avenue, logging in buses. She had her own two-bedroom apartment on South 12th Street and although she did not earn much money, she felt good about making it on her own, in spite of the odds against her.
But then she was pushed flat against the wall by fate. Her 10-year-old daughter, Chantrey Ladonna, fell while playing in one of Newark's many vacant lots, shattering her hip and forcing Ms. Griffin to stay home and take care of her. Ms. Griffin lost the job at the garage. Then one day a city inspector knocked on the door of her apartment. The building had been condemned. She had a week to move.
Ms. Griffin found herself at the welfare office on Rector Street, bewildered and looking for help. Someone used the word homeless, and she thought they were talking about somebody else, not her.
That night she, Chantrey and 14-year-old Lamont were sent to one small room at the Carlton, just one cell of bad luck amid a whole building of misfortune.
Every victim has a refuge, and Ms. Griffin's is laughter. "I'm not a complainer," she says, smiling. She got the hotel managers to give her a board to put on the bed so her children would have a desk on which to do homework. She bought cold cuts and fast food and tried to keep the children from dwelling on their bad luck. When they started to whine, she told them: "Stick with me for a while. I'm doing the best I can."
Not far away, the Harmony House complex was just opening its doors. A project of a nonprofit local group called the New Community Corporation and a big commercial developer, Hartz Mountain Industries, the 102-unit building was designed and built as temporary housing in which families, like Ms. Griffin's, could find their way out of despair.
As they filled the tight new apartments with single mothers and their children, Harmony House administrators invited Ms. Griffin. She was told that an apartment, with a kitchenette and bath, would be hers, but not forever. The closets have no doors, to remind people that Harmony House is intended to provide a transition, not a future. No one is expected to be there more than one year.
So far, the Harmony House concept appears to have worked. Jeanette Page-Hawkins, the top administrator, said 78 families had passed through, entering homeless, exiting to jobs and apartments. They stayed an average of 130 days.
While the successes have been many, Ms. Page-Hawkins said, some have slipped though the cracks. "What went wrong with Patricia, I really couldn't tell you," she said. "Finding the right place that's affordable is not something you can just do."
But Ms. Page-Hawkins said she did not consider Ms. Griffin's time at Harmony House, even as she approaches her deadline to get out, a failure. "We find success in a person increasing her educational levels or improving her job seeking skills," Ms. Page-Hawkins said.
Ms. Griffin met with employment counselors and went on job interviews. When she had time, she also took buses to apartments that real-estate agents found for her. But she never seemed to find the job that suited her or the apartment she could afford.
"I got depressed all over again," she said. "What was the use? Forget it. I'm not going to look anymore. I'm not going to do anything."
But Harmony House would not let her just sit back. The easiest way to make the Harmony administrators happy was to walk across South Orange Avenue to the re-election headquarters of Councilman George Branch of the Central Ward.
There she found more than busy work. "He said, 'Give it another try,' " Ms. Griffin said. "He treated me like I was his daughter."
Not long after the campaign, a representative came to Harmony House from the World of Foods, a courtyard of seven kiosks in the new Pathmark mall a few blocks away. Ms. Griffin was hired on the spot. Now she works the cash register, or serves food or cleans tables. She started at $4 an hour and has moved up to $4.50. She is there six days a week.
She has found a two-bedroom apartment in East Orange that costs $450 a month. Her welfare grant comes to $424, and she thinks her social worker will let her take the apartment, certain she will be able to pay the rent without falling behind.
Ms. Page-Hawkins said it was unlikely that Ms. Griffin or any other person at Harmony House would be evicted after one year. But she said she really wanted them to understand that Harmony House was not home.
Now that she is close to being on her own again, Ms. Griffin says being homeless was not so bad. She had expected to have to sleep in the subway. Instead, she found people who wanted to help.
The worst part of it all, she said, is wondering what memories of the last year might do to her children. She is hoping that Lamont and Chantrey will be able to forget all about the Carlton and even about Harmony House because of all the failure they represent.
"I'm still hoping they can chalk it up as a bad dream," she said. "Once we move out of here, and I really think I can do that, once we leave there's no reason we will ever have to come back."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5735 PRERECORDED TAPE; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HARMONY HOUSE RECORDS & TAPES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEWARK (NJ)

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHRISTMAS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



762 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 10; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: THE RUSSIAN CHARACTER

 BODY:
Smith's article reminded me of stories I heard in June while running a seminar on American literature in "occupied" Estonia. My students, middle-aged teachers of high-school English, were excited about Estonian moves for independence; and while they were worried about repercussions from Moscow and a skidding economy, they often seemed more concerned about the lasting effects of decades of Russian control. A whole generation has been infected by what one teacher called the "Russian disease." She spoke of her two teen-age sons who are rebelling at the idea of attending the university: "Why? So we can end up like you? And wait 10 years for an apartment?" One of them wants to be a doorman at a restaurant, where he'll get big tips and the chance to purchase booze and meat that he can use to get his name moved up on lists for apartments, and the like. The other, for similar reasons, wants to drive a van or cab.
All of these teachers spoke, as did Smith, of the warmth and generosity of individual Russians, but they wondered how long it might take for Estonians to become truly independent of Russian attitudes about work and social responsibility.
 
GARY L. AHO
Professor of English, The University of Massachusetts at Amherst
Amherst, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ESTONIA (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: LIFE STYLES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); TRENDS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); 

PERSON: SMITH, HEDRICK; AHO, GARY L (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



763 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 10; Column 4; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: THE RUSSIAN CHARACTER

 BODY:
No doubt about it, Russians have pilfered from the state for years. Blat (connections) is a way of life. As it is in the United States. Even in the Green Mountains where neighbor trusts neighbor and you can leave your key in your car, innkeepers, to keep their licenses, give inspectors whatever they want. And is not the world's biggest and most destructive influence peddling -- the savings and loan robbery -- done under Federal regulation with Government connivance?
As a market economy develops, some Russians may become as selfish as some capitalists or as corrupt as some drug dealers. But, for the time being, most Russians remain stolidly normal, deeply upset, for example, about founding an exchange that willy-nilly, by selling and buying stock shares, will legalize 250 million black-market rubles. No junk bonds for them.
Most Russians, like most peoples in the Soviet Union, have lived in poverty for generations. One ruling class after another has imposed it on them. Economic reform, guided by middle-class values and promising technological comforts, now makes a new perspective possible, no matter how improbable it may seem in this bleak winter. The Russians are victims of their circumstances, not of their character, which is their own and as fine as anybody's.
 
F. D. REEVE
Mount Holly, Vt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Russian citizen (Robert Wallis/Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: LIFE STYLES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MOUNTAINS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (53%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%); 

PERSON: REEVE, F D; SMITH, HEDRICK

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



764 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2881 words

HEADLINE: Tanii-san Goes Fishing in Hollywood

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: OSAKA , Japan

 BODY:
A FEW weeks ago, Akio Tanii, president of the world's biggest consumer electronics manufacturer, the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, invited his nemesis over for dinner. It was Norio Ohga, president of the Sony Corporation. No one will say much about what they talked about, but history may record it as Japan's back-to-the-future rendition of the days when Louis B. Mayer dined with Samuel Goldwyn.
Indeed, by all appearances, it was a meeting of Hollywood's two newest movie moguls. 
 A year ago, Mr. Ohga engineered Sony's $5 billion buyout of Columbia Pictures; before that, he got CBS Records. In the past few days, operating by phone and fax from Osaka, Mr. Tanii intensified negotiations on a $7 billion or so deal for MCA Inc., the owner of Universal Studios, one of the country's biggest record labels, a publishing house, theme parks and large chunks of Los Angeles real estate.
If Matsushita and Lew R. Wasserman, MCA's chairman, reach a final agreement, as now appears likely, Mr. Tanii and Mr. Ohga will control more than a quarter of the American movie market, a fact that does not sit well with the many who regard movies as the ultimate expression of American culture. MCA, after all, would be the fourth major American studio (the others are MGM/UA and 20th Century Fox) to fall under foreign ownership, the inevitable result of Hollywood's voracious appetite for new capital it cannot get at home.
In the negotiations, Matsushita has made it clear that it feels compelled to follow the still-unproved logic that hardware and software must be combined. That is, the giant maker of consumer electronics devices now feels compelled to control the huge variety of movie, music and television products packaged to run on their machines. And, like Sony, Matsushita feels it can achieve that dream only be owning a major movie studio, even if it cannot yet explain exactly why.
 
Eye on a Tuna, Net on a Whale
 For Japan, Hollywood suddenly seems both an irresistable lure -- and a potential disaster, both economic and political. At a time when America is worried that too many decisions are being made for it in Japan, Matsushita is betting that his country's second venture in Hollywood will be more easily accepted than the first. But there is clearly tension over the matter. And even Matsushita's leaders here seemed startled by the thought of their buying into Hollywood on such a scale. As one said of Masahiko Hirata, who was leading the negotiations in New York:
"He went fishing for tuna, and he came back with a whale."
For his part, Mr. Ohga says he thought better of giving his dinner host any specific advice about how to survive in the same pool with the studio that made "Jaws."
 "Tanii-san, he is such a gentleman, I love him," mused Mr. Ohga, a former opera singer who at times is even beginning to sound like a studio executive. "But this is a whole different world, and he doesn't know it yet. I still have to turn a switch in my mind, thinking about hardware and then thinking about software. It will take him a while to learn, too."
In Osaka these days the question is whether Matsushita, the reluctant multinational, can really learn to flip the switch.
Without question, Mr. Tanii has in the past four years successfully awakened the company from its post-videocassette revolution lethargy. He has created a computer division to take on International Business Machines and Fujitsu, turned the company into a major force in industrial equipment and semiconductors and wrestled to consolidate a vast Matsushita empire that embraces 87 Japanese companies and nearly as many abroad. Yet Matsushita, known in the United States particularly for its Panasonic consumer electronics products, has always depended more on sheer size than Sony-type savvy. And there are many people in Osaka who think that this time Matsushita's first instinct -- to follow Sony's lead -- could prove far more treacherous than fighting it out over ever-smaller Walkmans, high-definition televisions, fancier video cameras and the newest in computer chips.
"We are taking an enormous risk," said a Matsushita senior manager, insisting on anonymity. "It is difficult to say if people are more excited or more scared."
If Sony seems a bicultural child, born in Japan but raised in California, Matsushita is a place where most employees still wear drab blue uniforms that give them the vague look of air-conditioner repairmen and learn by heart the lyrics of the company song, "Love, Light and a Dream," which blares from loudspeakers at 8:30 A.M. and again at the end of the day. Though they deny it, it seems unbelievable that had Matsushita's executives not been dragged into Hollywood by a fear of Mr. Ohga, they would venture any further than the movie theaters near Osaka Station. Though Mr. Tanii has spoken frequently of his company's new "areas of emphasis," he had never before mentioned entertainment software. That was always something left to a weak subsidiary, JVC.
 
Three Sets of Risk
 The risks, insiders say, are threefold. The first is a question of vision. So far, beyond the usual platitudes about the "synergy between software and hardware," the company has yet to articulate its strategy for turning Universal's backlots and vast film library ("Jaws," "E.T. -- The Extraterrestrial" and "Back to the Future") into a strategic asset. The company's top executives, Mr. Tanii included, have declined to be interviewed on the subject. But many of the company's own employees say they are mystified about the exact reasons for the new undertaking.
The answer may simply be control -- control of the software that will be placed on everything from the CD's and video disks to CD-ROMS, computer disks packed with data, music and pictures all intermingled in what is coming to be known as "multimedia." Then there is high-definition television; beyond that, mediums yet uninvented.
"It is a chance to buy one-sixth of a unique industry," says Fay Vincent, head Coca Cola's entertainment business when it owned Columbia Pictures and now baseball commissioner. "Every major Japanese consumer-electronics company must be thinking: 'If we don't control it, who will?' "
The second set of risks is political. Sony's purchase of Columbia raised a storm of protest in the United States that centered on whether the message of Hollywood's powerful medium -- to say nothing about its profits -- should be controlled from Japan. Sony quelled those concerns largely because its white-haired, omnipresent chairman, Akio Morita, used his wit, his fluent English and Washington contacts to convince America that it would keep its hands off Columbia.
Matsushita and MCA have already been tripping over each other on this point. Even as negotiations were under way, MCA dispatched politically connected board members and lobbyists to spread the message that the deal is designed to infuse the American company with much-needed cash and that current management will continue to call the creative shots. But back in Japan, Matsushita has declined several chances to offer any reassurances of a hands-off approach. And when American Jewish groups complained last month that Matsushita still observes the Arab trade embargo against Israel, implying that that should be a guide as to how the company will deal with controversial movies, Matsushita's executives froze, refusing to discuss the issue.
Matsushita seems to be betting that a second Hollywood purchase will be easier than the first, especially at a time when Congress is preoccupied with a potential war in the Middle East. But Tokyo makes no secret of its discomfort. "We are worried about the potential reaction of Americans," said Yukiharu Kodama, Vice Minister of the powerful Ministry of International Trade and Industry. "If I am asked by Mr. Tanii, I would say, 'Be very careful.' "
Finally, there is the risk that Matsushita's management team will not be able to learn to run an entertainment business, a business that bears as little resemblance to consumer electronics as grimy, crowded Osaka does to Beverly Hills. Even at Sony -- a company that ran a joint venture in the record business, the CBS/Sony Group, for two decades before it plunged headfirst into music and movies -- there are continuing questions about whether the company could be bled dry by Hollywood producers who see Japan's electronics giants as a source of financing for huge movie projects that may never turn a profit.
Matsushita could be even more vulnerable.
But if ever a company knew how to turn humble goals into oversized returns it is this giant founded by Konosuke Matsushita in 1918, with $50 and an idea for a new kind of electric light socket. By the time he died here last year, Mr. Matsushita was hailed not only as a genious of management and manufacturing, but as the man who had brought the everyday appliances of life -- rice cookers, televisions, bicycles, kerosene heaters -- to a society still emerging from its feudal past.
More than two decades ago, just outside the company's modest-looking, low-rise headquarters here, Mr. Matsushita built a huge memorial to some of his heroes. At the center is a giant statue of Thomas A. Edison. Below him, smoking a cigar, is Anton Philips, the Dutch industrialist whose giant company is now struggling for survival, chiefly because of competition from the likes of Matsushita. The circle around Edison's feet is completed by a series of Western inventors and theoreticians -- Andre Ampere, Gugielmo Marconi, Georg Ohm -- and some Japanese little known outside the archipelago. There are no movie producers.
In many ways, the statues defined Mr. Matsushita's vision. He was always something of a rebel, focusing on consumer products when the zaibatsu, the huge industrial groups that dominated Japanese business before World War II, largely served industrial customers. By the time war broke out, he had built his electric-socket maker into an enterprise employing 10,000 people. When the American occupation army finally took him off its list of businessmen to be "purged" for their contributions to Japan's war machine, the company had shrunk to a third its previous size. But not for long. Looking for quick growth, Mr. Matsushita bought JVC, a major air-conditioning company, a maker of facsimile machines, later even Quasar, Motorola's television business. "We have always done M.&A.," said Hiroyuki Mizuno, Matsushita's head of research and development. "It's just that we have usually done it in Japan."
 
The Ancestoral Way
 But if Mr. Matsushita became one of Japan's most famous industrialists, he was a purely Japanese phenomenon. While Sony concentrated on America, Matsushita built a remarkable network of distributors in tiny stores in every Japanese neighborhood. It entered the United States early, in 1953, and spread its tentacles throughout Asia, but that was not the focus. Japan, the founder once said, must bring about "prosperity without becoming dependent on foreign trade only. Our ancestors did it."
Only under Mr. Tanii, who took over in 1986, has the company begun to resemble a true multinational. Medium-tech goods like refrigerators and air conditioners are now shipped from outside Japan to the United States and sometimes to Japan itself, freeing Japanese factories for the highest value-added work. (The other day, in one of many moves to lessen its huge corporate trade surplus, Matsushita said it would begin to import 3,000 television tubes a month that it makes in the United States, where it is also producing mobile phones, batteries, microwave ovens and components for air conditioners and refrigerators.) Faster than almost any other company, Matsushita has automated and pared its manufacturing costs.
But between 1985 and 1989, Matsushita's video business declined 18 percent in yen terms; sales of audio equipment have barely budged in five years. "The VCR era came and went and Matsushita was among the last to adjust," said Boris Petersik, an analyst at Barclay's de Zoete Wedd in Tokyo. "Only now are they turning it around."
 
Learning How to Quarrel
 Until now, Matsushita's chief battleground has not been the movie set but rather a drab white building here, where engineers like Shigeo Kuninobu are scrambling to get back into the computer race that Matsushita once quit. Mr. Kuninobu and a few dozen young computer engineers have been working up a new line of engineering workstations. Most of those workstations have been developed in Longmont, Colo., by a startup company that Matsushita helped create and now controls, Solbourne Computer. Designing the computer from the processor up, Matsushita regularly sends teams of engineers to Colorado for months of training.
"We've learned how to quarrel," said Mr. Kuninobu. "Ordinarily it is not something you do here in Japan, so at first we were pretty confused." Matsushita is learning fast: It is making laptop computers for Tandy Corporation, Siemens and I.B.M. In Osaka, it is developing and advanced parallel processor, called Adena, a stab at the most advanced technology.
Matsushita is spending billions in its fight against Sony. Earlier this year it brought out the S1 "Single Hand Movie" camera, with features Sony lacks, such as a stabilizer to keep video images from shaking. Next Saturday, the same day as Sony, Matsushita will begin selling the world's first high-definition television sets -- for $34,000 apiece.
But turning now to Hollywood and the software battle, Matsushita may well find the cost of its new acquisition relatively small in the next few years compared with the enormous amount of management time that will be spent dealing with such a boom-and-bust industry. The cost of a big movie production these days runs about $60 million. Nevertheless, Japanese companies are finding Hollywood irresistible. Entertainment is what, in Japan's view, America is best at. It is the part of the business that defies Matsushita's skills. There is only so much of it around. And Matsushita does not want to miss out.
 
 
 
THE PERSONAL WEALTH OF MATSUSHITA
 WHEN Konosuke Matsushita died last year at the age of 94, he left not only a sprawling corporate empire but also what was easily the biggest estate in the history of Japan.
In life, Mr. Matsushita lived modestly, befitting a man who got his first job at age 9, as an errand boy, and raised capital by pawning his wife's kimono, so the legend goes. As his company's fortunes rose, he gave away a huge amount of his wealth, creating the Japan Prize and the Peace and Happiness Through Prosperity Institute, which now publishes an influential English-language magazine and scores of books. He built hospitals, recreational facilities and houses for his employees and a even special school he hoped would turn out honest politicians.
Still, at his death, according to the National Tax Bureau, Mr. Matsushita left an estate worth roughly $1.88 billion. Half of it went to his widow, and $687 million or so to his only child by marriage, a daughter.
Executing the will ran into complications, when four illegitimate children -- three sons and a daughter, each of a different mother -- emerged to claim shares. In the end, each of the four reportedly settled for $60 million to $70 million.

 
 
NORIO OHGA'S AMERICA
 WHEN the Sony Corporation paid $3.4 billion last year for Columbia Pictures -- and then upwards of $1.5 billion more for the services of one of Hollywood's hottest producing teams, Jon Peters and Peter Guber -- there was sniping on both sides of the Pacific that Sony would never make it all profitable. A year later, the sniping continues.
Sony does not report results for its subsidiaries, so it is impossible to tell exactly how the big venture on the silver screen is going. But evidence suggests the going is indeed rough.
Mr. Peters and Mr. Guber have been leading the way in Hollywood's rush to pay top dollar for scripts, directors and actors. And until recently, the box office take for films released by Columbia and its other studio operation, Tri-Star, has been nothing to write home about. "They will never make any money, ever," insists a top industry executive, who predicts that the talent will leave once Sony is no longer willing to finance their wildest dreams.
Norio Ohga, Sony's president, says that he has heard it all before, and is unworried. "I look at every budget," he says, and he has supported the big spending. "If we don't make really good movies, we throw away our money. Hollywood wants big movies now, and the production cost is high. But we can sell a big movie for 10 or 15 years." Anyway, Mr. Ohga argues, Columbia's revenues lately are above expectations and there were some profitable months in the fall.
But though Mr. Ohga has said he does not want to interfere with the "software" -- movies, music and TV programs -- he is spending a third of his time on the entertainment business, in part because of the head of CBS Records, which Sony bought in '88, was recently edged out. So much time on airplanes to the States, in fact, that Akio Morita, Sony's chairman, recently joked that corporate headquarters should be relocated to Anchorage.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday headed "Matsushita and MCA Compared," with an article about the Matsushita Electric Industries Company's negotiation to buy MCA Inc., mislabeled equivalents of Matsushita's revenues and earnings for the years 1986 through 1989. The equivalents for those years were in billions of special drawing rights -- units of value created by the International Monetary Fund -- not in dollars.
 
A caption with the article misidentified the birthplace of Tiffany, one of MCA's star singers. She is from California, not Long Island.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Akio Tanii, Matsushita president, at his headquarters in Osaka last year. (Caroline Parsons) (pg. 1); Universal: It all began with this building, circa 1915. (Camera Press); "Henry and June" with Fred Ward and Maria de Medeiros (Universal Pictures); Christopher Lloyd and Michael Fox: "Back to the Future Part III" (Universal Pictures); "E.T. -- The Extraterrestrial": an American classic. (Universal Pictures); Elton John, racking up records for Universal's parent, MCA. (Steve Granitz/Retna); Tiffany, MCA's teen-age pop star from Long Island. ( Jack Macoska/Star File); charts: Matsushita's and MCA's earnings and revenues, 1986-1990 (1990, first nine months) (Source: Company reports, Standard & Poors'); number of movies issued in Hollywood by the studio's (Source: Variety); Masushita's fiscal 1990 sales by division (
1990, year ended March 31) (Source: Company reports) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (94%); SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (94%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC CORP (94%); SONY CORP (93%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO; MCA INC

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); PUBLISHING (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E ELTON JOHN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



765 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: Existing home sales for October.
 
TUESDAY: Balance of payments for the third quarter. * Conference Board releases its consumer confidence index for November. * Former chairman of Ashland Oil to be sentenced in New York for conspiracy and wire fraud. * Auto sales for mid-November.
 
WEDNESDAY: Appeals court hearing in New York for Leona Helmsley.* Durable goods orders for October. * Corporate profits and revised gross national product for the third quarter. * The Treasury auctions five-year notes.
 
THURSDAY: Personal income and consumption expenditures for October. * The Treasury auctions three- and six-month bills.
 
FRIDAY: Index of leading economic indicators for October. * December heating oil and gasoline contracts expire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: ASH (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (91%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (91%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (91%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ASHLAND INC (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); GASOLINE (88%); CONSUMPTION (88%); EXISTING HOME SALES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); HEATING OIL (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); SENTENCING (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (86%); AUCTIONS (86%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (86%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (85%); FACTORY ORDERS (85%); DURABLE GOODS (85%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); APPEALS COURTS (55%); WIRE FRAUD (55%); 

PERSON: LEONA MINDY ROSENTHAL HELMSLEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



766 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
The Winners Are Those Who Didn't Play

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
IN the late 1980's, the takeover game often seemed like the only game on Wall Street. Those who wouldn't play were dismissed as irrelevant. Now, it appears, the only survivors after this recession may be those who by luck or brains managed to stay on the sidelines. The rules have changed.
Michael Milken, the man who more than any other wrote the rules of the last decade, learned last week that in the new one he will have to either cooperate with the Government -- rat on his accomplices, to use the type of language normally reserved for a different class of criminal -- or spend a large part of this decade in prison. 
 It is widely believed that Mr. Milken will emerge from prison a rich man. But given that many of his investments seem to have been in securities of the leveraged companies that dominated the Drexel client list, it appears certain that he is less rich than he used to be, perhaps a lot less.
Another supposed winner, Martin Sorrell of Britain's WPP Group, who for a time seemed intent on gobbling up every advertising agency that his London rivals Saatchi & Saatchi failed to buy, last week allowed that profits were going to be a bit below forecasts. The stock fell $9.625, to $6.125 in New York trading. And that in a generally dull week when the Dow Jones industrial average slipped 23.02, to 2,527.23.
How can a profit disappointment cause a company to lose most of its value? Simple. The worry is that WPP will default on loans it took as it bought such agencies as J. Walter Thomson and Ogilvy & Mather. Last year's Ogilvy acquisition now seems especially expensive.
It is not Mr. Sorrell's fault that advertising revenues are soft in most markets of the world. But he seems to have left his company in a vulnerable position for that eventuality.
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation feels that weakness even more directly. Last month he was saying he did not want to sell assets in the current atmosphere of deteriorating prices. Now he is looking for buyers for $1 billion of properties as he asks the banks for easier terms on existing loans. Moody's last week cut the company's debt ratings from a relatively high level of "junk" to a lower one.
News shares have risen in the last couple of weeks, on the welcome news that the company had cut a deal to merge with its rival in British satellite television. But while that will stem some losses, assuming a new British Government does not block it, it does not solve News's need for cash.
A year ago, it would have been taken for granted that operations like WPP and News would simply borrow more money to keep going. But now there is, in Moody's delicate phrase, "greater conservatism within the capital markets," meaning that bankers have found religion when it comes to loan standards. And neither of those companies looks quite as sterling as it did a year ago.
Shareholders of both companies may have some nervous moments while waiting for the bankers to reach their decisions.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Dow Jones average, Nov. 16-23, 1990; weekly close of WPP Group stock, June, 29-Nov. 23, 1990; weekly New York close of News Corp. stock, June, 29-Nov. 23, 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (70%); WPP (LSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (81%); WPP PLC (70%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (55%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (55%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (84%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD MICHAEL MILKEN (73%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



767 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/November 18-23

BYLINE: By Allen R. Myerson

 BODY:
COMPANIES
 
Milken's Exile From the World That Milken Built
 
He spent tens of millions on his defense, and his lawyers were the very best. But on Wednesday, Michael R. Milken, the most powerful financier of his time, was sentenced to 10 years in prison, to be followed by 3 years of community service. It was the toughest sentence by far for anyone caught in Wall Street's recent scandals, from a judge familiar with the financial community's ways. Federal District Judge Kimba M. Wood gave up a lucrative partnership in a New York law firm, specializing in antitrust law, for the relatively modest pay of the bench. She offered Mr. Milken the prospect of a milder sentence if he helped prosecutors snare others, but he is banned from the securities industry for life. Some mourn Mr. Milken's exile, saying that the collapse of the "junk bond" market since he left Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. proves how indispensable he is. But how much are those bonds truly worth if their value depends on the fate of one firm and one man?

Accountants Go Under
 
Laventhol & Horwath ultimately couldn't even balance its own books. The nation's seventh-largest accounting firm asked for bankruptcy protection from creditors on Wednesday -- apparently the largest such filing by a professional services firm. The firm had a negative net worth of $6.9 million as of Oct. 13. It also faces lawsuits seeking nearly $2 billion over its handling of such clients as the P.T.L. ministry and its favorable feasibility studies for real estate projects that would have needed divine intervention to succeed. Those trying to collect from Laventhol at this point might do just as well directing their prayers to Jim and Tammy.
 
Bad Mortgages at Citicorp
 
How can a bank lose by pumping out plenty of mortgages when the housing market is strong? As long as borrowers provide a fat down payment, why bother pawing through piles of their financial records? Citicorp's latest experience is providing some answers. The company said mortgages delinquent 90 days or more or in foreclosure have risen from 3 to 3.6 percent of dollar volume during the third quarter. Falling home prices, especially in the Northeast, are partly to blame, but Arthur P. Soter, a banking analyst at Morgan Stanley, also points to relaxed lending criteria. The surprise is that it happened at Citicorp, the nation's largest home lender. "This is not some mad dash for growth by an inexperienced, wet-behind-the-ears player," Mr. Soter said. Citicorp has decided to take more care in verifying applicants' income and down-payment sources. But more loans might go sour. As Mr. Soter said, "Problems related to real estate tend to have a fairly long tail."
 
Move Over, Wayne Gretzky
 
The sports world's probable greatest money-earner was laid to rest in an oak coffin a week ago at age 29 in Canada, where he was bred. Northern Dancer's achievements only began with his victories in the 1964 Kentucky Derby -- a track record -- and the Preakness. At stud, he enriched his thoroughbred breed with foals, including 123 stakes winners, that won more than $26 million. His descendants included more than 1,000 stakes winners. Bidding by European breeders and Arab sheiks for his royal bloodline pushed prices for his yearlings past $10 million, and his stud fee to $1 million. "He was a national hero in Canada, along with Wayne Gretzky," the hockey star, said Bernard McCormack, general manager of Winfields Farm near Toronto, where Northern Dancer rests. Wait 'til all the athletes concerned that their multimillion-dollar salaries are lower than someone else's hear about all this.
 
Buyout Funds Reborn
 
Merger mania still lives. Forstmann Little & Company and Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company are having some initial success in raising new buyout funds of $1 billion to $2 billion.
 
CBS Plot Thickens
 
Maybe CBS should consult a script doctor to straighten out its tortured plot. The network is in the awkward position of telling affiliates about its weaknesses and advertisers about its strengths. CBS executives said last week that they expect a loss this quarter, and they asked affiliated stations to swallow a 20 percent, $30 million cut in payments to carry CBS shows. Instead of planning the usual three-day bash for affiliates in Los Angeles next year, with parties, invitations to spouses and walk-ons by network stars, CBS will hold a sober day-and-a-half meeting in New York in June just for station managers. Laurence A. Tisch, president of CBS, said increased competition for viewers and advertisers is "changing the fundamental economics of network television." CBS is boasting to advertisers, meanwhile, that it will remain the best way to reach a huge audience, with spots on "60 Minutes" likely to have as many viewers as a blanket campaign on cable networks.
 
Air Fare Bonanza
 
The airlines might fill up their seats with two-fers, but barely have money to go on with the show. In a frenzy to retain market shares, the nation's airlines are offering free companion tickets, most until Feb. 28. "The industry is going to lose a fortune," said Helane Becker, an analyst at Shearson Lehman. With the high cost of fuel, she added, "A couple of airline companies are going to have great difficulty surviving." Buy now, she said, because the deals are unlikely to last into March.
 
 
 
THE ECONOMY

 
Easing Up on Bankers
 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady promised last week to do more for bankers than urging them to be generous with loans. Mr. Brady, sharing the Bush Administration's concern that tight credit is choking the economy, asked regulators last week to go easier in examining bank finances. "Use some judgment," he said. "Don't overreact." Bankers say they need an overhaul of regulations that fragment and restrict their industry, and Mr. Brady promised to recommend new laws by next year.
 
Trading at a Crawl
 
A power outage halted trading for 94 minutes Friday at the New York Stock Exchange. Business was so sluggish that some said they failed to notice when trading resumed.
 
Oil prices rose $2.12 last week, to $31.90, after President Bush's tough talk in the Middle East.
 
What little other economic news there was last week was discouraging. Initial unemployment claims for the week ended Nov. 10 rose to 488,000, the highest level in seven years. "An ominous sign," Lacy H. Hunt, chief economist of Hongkongbank said.
 
Economic Justice
 
The economic slowdown has struck some of the healthiest states the hardest, while leaving weaker states improved. October unemployment figures indicate that even with the auto industry in retreat, Michigan's jobless rate was lower than a year ago, as the agriculture and machinery sectors picked up. In Texas, farm exports and Mexican trade quickened before the jump in oil prices, leaving unemployment just one-tenth of 1 percent higher than New York's. And California, its defense plants and real estate ailing, has a higher jobless rate than the nation's.
 
Fear of Science
 
Americans continue to shun advanced study in technical fields essential to the nation's economic health. According to a recent survey, only 43 percent of the 933 doctorates in mathematics awarded in the United States in the last academic year went to American citizens -- a record low. Engineering and several other sciences show similar trends. Many foreign students do stay to seek their fortune in the United States. But for top scientists and engineers, it is a scant fortune: a median starting salary for mathematicians of about $32,000, less than many Wall Street M.B.A.'s earn their first six months out.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL


The Bush Mold in Britain?
 
Will Great Britain turn to a George Bush, of sorts, for conservatism with a lighter hand? After 11 1/2 years of unwavering right-wing rule under Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, her Conservative Party chooses a new leader, and Prime Minister, this week. Michael Heseltine, whose challenge brought about her resignation announcement on Thursday, proffers a renewed role for government in aiding the poor, improving schools and reviving inner cities. But Mrs. Thatcher's resignation also throws the contest open to two members of her Cabinet. Douglas Hurd, the Foreign Secretary, is more pragmaticthan she is -- and, like Mr. Heseltine, more pro-European. Only John Major, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, might closely follow the Thatcher line. A defender of free markets and a critic of a federated Europe, he appears to be Mrs. Thatcher's first choice.
 
Guinness in Spain
 
When Ernest Hemingway was in Spain, it is said, he liked nothing more than an aged Rioja. Guinness P.L.C. is betting that Spaniards and latter-day Hemingways will switch from sherry and red wine to beer. The London-based company last week announced an agreement to pay $1.02 billion for the Spanish brewer La Cruz del Campo S.A. Cruzcampo has more than a fifth of Spain's beer market, with the fastest growth and strongest profits.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Federal District Judge Kimba M. Wood (Roger Sandler/Black Star); Michael Heseltine: Next prime minister? (Associated Press); The late Northern Dancer (United Press International); graphs: initial unemployment claims, July 1-Nov. 23, 1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); change in the unemployment rate from Oct. 1989-Oct. 1990 (Source: Labor Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JUDGES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); SENTENCING (77%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); FORECLOSURE (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (66%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (59%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



768 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: A New Geography For the Coal Industry

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
THE rumble of change is being heard in the coal fields of America.
Utilities are exploring the costs and availability of lower-sulfur coal. Miners in central Appalachia and the western United States are contemplating big gains in production. Railroads expect a surge in shipments. And the high-sulfur mines of the Midwest and northern and southern Appalachia are looking at leaner times. 
 Under the new Clean Air Act approved by Congress last month, restrictions on sulfur dioxide emissions, which contribute heavily to acid rain, will take effect in 1995 and tighten in 2000, with each round requiring more coal-burning utilities to find lower-sulfur fuel or to install scrubbers or other cleanup technology.
These restriction have not previously been applied to old plants. By some estimates, one-eighth of the coal-burning plants in the United States will have to shift to different suppliers, sometimes more than 1,000 miles away. Supply relationships that have existed for decades will be disrupted.
"This is going to be the biggest change in the use of coal at utilities in the past 50 years," said Scott B. Sitzer, an economist at the Department of Energy.
Among producers, Ashland Coal will see compound annual earnings growth of 20 percent through 1995 because of increased demand for central Appalachian low-sulfur coal, said Rafael A. Villagran, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. Another Appalachian producer, Westmoreland Coal, and a company in the Powder River Basin of northeast Wyoming, Nerco Inc., will also benefit, he said.
The losers will probably be "mom-and-pop" mining companies that lack the resources to buy low-sulfur reserves or build the mines to produce them. Bigger companies may already have such reserves or be able to acquire them. The largest company, Peabody Holdings, a subsidiary of Hansen P.L.C., has big low-sulfur reserves in Montana, but offering that coal to its customers may mean a cut in profits. Because of daunting transportation costs, Western supplies, even with their attractive low sulfur levels, sell for less at the mine than do Peabody's extensive coal holdings in the East.
Consolidation Coal, a subsidiary of Du Pont, is the second-largest American coal producer, and does not have extensive low-sulfur reserves, but it is regarded as highly efficient and, as one expert said, will "be the last guys to go."
Among railroads, CSX and Norfolk Southern would benefit because they would haul more coal from central Appalachia, said Sandor J. Toth, senior analyst at the Fieldston Company, of Washington, a coal transportation publishing and consulting firm. In the West, Burlington Northern Union Pacific and Southern Pacific would haul more coal, he said.
Eastern Enterprises, which owns the Midland Enterprises barge company, would also benefit, said Mr. Villagran of Shearson. Its barges ply a variety of inland waterways, including the Ohio and Mississippi rivers.
AS for consumers, higher transportation charges and the cost of scrubbers will almost certainly push up electric rates sharply in places -- primarily in the Middle West -- now using high-sulfur coal. Coal accounted for 32.3 percent of the energy produced in the nation last year, and represents the vast majority of American fossil-fuel reserves. The United States has more than one-third of the world's coal reserves.
When the Clean Air Act was first passed, in 1970, it meant big changes for new generating stations, but older coal-using plants were exempt.
This time, all the older plants are affected, and some experts say that so many utilities will rush for new supplies at once that they will bid up the price of rail freight. The market for coal at the mine is also likely to change, with the now-modest price spread between low- and high-sulfur coals likely to widen. Similar price changes occurred in the oil market back when regulators set limits on sulfur dioxide emissions from oil-burning plants.
C oal does not now operate in a national market. For one thing, the product varies sharply from deposit to deposit in energy content per pound and other factors, and most boilers can handle only a small range of coals. For another, proximity has historically been the most important determinant, with relatively little coal shipped over long distances.
Currently, the difference in price between low-sulfur and high is small. In Eastern Kentucky, where high- and low-sulfur coals are available, the premium for low-sulfur is usually about 25 cents per million British thermal units, said A. Denny Ellerman, a vice president of Charles River Associates, a consulting firm. (A million B.T.U.'s is an amount of heat sufficient to make about 100 kilowatt-hours of electricity. That is a little less than the typical American household uses in a week.) But the premium exists only for the lowest-sulfur coals; intermediate grades actually sell for about the same as high-sulfur fuel.

THE reason is that under the current regulations, a generating station is either in compliance or it is not; being most of the way there is of no help. The new act, however, allows averaging of the emissions of plants owned by the same utility.
According to Department of Energy figures, coal-fired plants comprise 300 gigawatts of electrical capacity, or 44 percent of the total generating capacity. The balance includes plants fired by natural gas and oil, nuclear reactors and hydroelectric stations. The coal plants work more of the year, however, producing about 56 percent of the electricity.
Of the total capacity of 300 gigawatts, 70 gigawatts are already treated with scrubbers, according to the Department of Energy. Additional plants with a total of 42 gigawatts of capacity will probably switch to lower-sulfur coal, and plants with 92 gigawatts of capacity will install scrubbers, said C. Hoff Stauffer Jr., a vice president of Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc.
Shearson's estimate runs a little lower: plants with 40 gigawatts will switch fuels and plants with 55 to 60 gigawatts will add scrubbers.
A few plants will try other solutions, like building new boilers that produce less pollution, or burning coal with natural gas to cut emissions. But under a system of emissions-trading approved by Congress, not every plant will have to change. A utility that adds a scrubber to its biggest, dirtiest plant would save so much sulfur dioxide that it could apply its "overcompliance" to smaller units that it did not clean up.
Even with the wide expectation of large-scale coal switching, the low-sulfur coal producers are not rushing into new investments, however. At ARCO Coal, in Denver, which owns the Black Thunder mine, the biggest in the country, Curtis E. Burton, a spokesman, said the first step was to see which strategy the electric companies favor to comply with the new rules -- low-sulfur coal or scrubbers. "Every utility has to sit down and do some serious calculation, what makes sense for them to meet the new standards," Mr. Burton said.
The Black Thunder mine, in the Powder River Basin in northeast Wyoming, produces nearly 30 million tons of coal a year, or about 3 percent of the United States' total. It is very low-sulfur coal, suitable for blending with high-sulfur coal to produce a mix that still burns with emissions below the Federal limit.
AN ANALYSIS performed for the Environmental Protection Agency by ICF Resources Inc. in July predicted that a bill like the one that eventually passed Congress would cut coal production by up to 97 million tons from the high-sulfur areas of the Middle West and northern Appalachia by the year 2005, compared with what production would have been without a new law. The replacement coal would come mostly from central Appalachia, with some from the West. The Western coal is extremely low sulfur, below 0.7 percent; central Appalachian coal is between 0.7 and 2 percent.
Companies in both the Appalachians and the Powder River Basin have ample capacity to produce low-sulfur coal and can expand capacity quickly, so big low-sulfur price changes are unlikely. Mr. Burton said his company foresaw "very small increases" in prices. Even with a higher demand for Powder River Basin coal, he said, competition would still be strong among producers of that type. "We're going to have to go out and hustle for every new piece of business," he said.
A bigger barrier for Western coal is the cost of transportation. Delivery to power plants in the Middle West or Southeast can run as high as $25 a ton. Coal from the region generally sells for $5 to $7 a ton, so transportation can account for four-fifths of the delivered cost for the coal, although this is an extreme case; rail charges are usually closer to half the cost.
But the effect of the Clean Air Act on the price of rail transport is hard to predict because costs are expected to rise sharply with volume, Mr. Toth said. If many utilities switch quickly to Western coal and begin hauling their fuel 1,500 miles instead of 200 miles, "you're talking about a lot of new cars, and a lot of new locomotives," he explained, adding, "Unless the railroads do some upgrading, we think there will be some problems."
At the moment, Mr. Toth noted, "You can get rail rates from the Powder River Basin of a penny a pound a mile." And "Some utilities are going to make their investment decisions based on that number." That could turn out to be a big mistake. If railroad costs rise, he said, a trip that formerly cost $12 a ton could jump to $14.
In any event, the railroads are reluctant to take major steps, he said, until it becomes clearer precisely what steps and what combinations of strategies the utilities are going to pursue, just how much low-sulfur coal will be shipped and how many new scrubbers will be installed instead.

 
 
TRADING IN THE RIGHT TO POLLUTE
 THE new Clean Air Act will let coal-burning utilities produce, buy and sell something besides electricity: the right to pollute.
In a system that has some economists cheering and utility regulators scratching their heads, the law will allow utilities to overcomply -- by reducing sulfur dioxide emissions below the legal limit -- and then "sell" the extra to another company.
Suppose two companies each have to remove 1,000 tons of sulfur dioxide a year; one can do the job for $400 a ton, the other has to spend $600. The first can remove 2,000 tons and sell the extra reduction of 1,000 tons to the second company. If the price is more than $400, the first company makes a profit; if less than $600, the second company saves money.
Scrubbers are, in fact, most cost-effective on big plants, especially the nation's 107 "big dirties," as they are known. A scrubber on a big dirty might cut sulfur-dioxide emission by 99 percent -- from 5 pounds per million British thermal units, say, to 0.05 pounds. Since the standard, when fully phased in, is 1.2 pounds, a plant that installed a scrubber would have 1.15 pounds to sell or to store against problems that might come up in the future.
Estimates vary on the worth of this pollution commodity, but Paul R. Portney of Resources for the Future, in Washington, puts the figure at about $2.5 billion.
"There is a shared savings," said Ashley C. Brown of the Ohio Public Utilities Commission, adding that savings can reduce rates.
But it is not clear who should benefit, shareholder or consumer. Normally, electric customers pay for all construction through their electric bills, and get the benefit in available electricity. They could be asked to pay for extra anti-pollution equipment, and, indeed, get the benefit in reduced rates if the pollution trade works.
But there will be some risk, both in trading in the volatile energy market and in using machinery that can quickly become obsolete. If the trade goes bad -- if the utility, say, finds itself having spent more to create a pollution credit than it can sell the credit for -- then the investment might be judged imprudent by state regulators. In that case, shareholders might have to eat the loss in the form of reduced dividends.
Should the shareholder be asked to assume that level of risk without the possibility of gain?

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Consolidation Coal plants (above, in West Virginia), efficiency helps offset a lack of low-sulfer supplies. (Jose Lopez/The New York Times); map: supply regions for coal grades commonly used to generate electricty in the U.S. (Source: Shearson Lehman Brothers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WLB (NASDAQ) (54%); UNP (NYSE) (52%); NSC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (54%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (54%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (54%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (54%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (51%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

COMPANY: NERCO INC (66%); FIELDSTON CO INC (61%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); WESTMORELAND COAL CO (54%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (52%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (51%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CLEAN AIR ACT; SULFUR DIOXIDE; PRODUCTION; MINES AND MINING COAL MINING (93%); COAL INDUSTRY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); MINES & MINING (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); ACID RAIN (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (69%); RIVERS (69%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



769 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: All About/Movie Theaters;
The Crunch Comes to Cinemas

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
WHEN movie ticket sales peaked seven years ago, the theater chains continued to expand. They added 4,000 screens, for a 1989 total of nearly 23,000. Only now are they retrenching, trying to sell their theaters as well as their tickets.
Average ticket prices have risen to $4.58 last year from $2.69 in 1980, but after inflation the increase is slight. "It is a nongrowth business that has become highly competitive," said Sumner Redstone, whose National Amusements Inc. owns nearly 700 screens. "Real growth does not come from raising your admission prices year after year. With everyone fighting for market share, the question is: how well can companies manage what they own?" 
 Many companies have not managed very well. The nation's three largest chains -- United Artists Theater Circuit, with 2,550 screens, Cineplex Odeon, 1,690 screens and American Multi-Cinema, 1,620 screens -- are all selling off some holdings. During the late 1980's, companies like American Multi-Cinema Inc. of Kansas City seemed to open a new multiplex, or theater with more than one screen, every week. Now, heavily indebted, they are cutting back. American Multi-Cinema and Cineplex Odeon both had losses last year.
Meanwhile, film rental and advertising costs are going up, and a higher minimum wage has raised the cost of labor. "Margins are being squeezed for almost all circuits," said Jack Holland, vice president of marketing for American Multi-Cinema.
 
Synergize, Synergize

When Piggybacking Seemed So Sensible
In the giddy 80's, every studio executive, an investment banker by his side, was primed to bid for theater chains. "Synergies," they said -- combine studios with theaters, and inevitably there would be synergies.
And once a film company saw a competitor buying theaters, it feared having its own offerings shut out of major markets. For the studios, "owning theater circuits became a defensive strategy," said Jeffrey Logsdon, an analyst at the Seidler Amdec Inc. investment firm in Los Angeles. Paramount Pictures and Warner Bros. became joint partners in CineAmerica. MCA bought a stake in Cineplex Odeon, and Columbia bought Loews Theaters. Only the Walt Disney Company, among the major studios, held back.
Theater owners, meanwhile, went into movie production. As ticket sales flattened, they thought that making movies would raise their share of theater admissions and bring them earnings from distribution. The United Artists Theater Circuit was encouraged to launch a film production business in 1988 because the company's parent, Tele-Communications Inc., is the nation's largest cable operator. Executives reasoned that as long as Tele-Communications controlled the distribution of films through cable, movie theaters and an investment in the Blockbuster Video stores, it could profitably expand into film production too.
But making hits takes very different skills from distributing them, United Artists found. "There was no synergy in the way that was originally visualized," acknowledged John Neil, president of United Artists Entertainment. "At least there is nothing that I have noted."
United Artists closed its film production division earlier this year and chose 400 theaters, out of 2,700, to sell. "We are already down to 2,550," Mr. Neil said. "We have closed some, but we have sold more than we have closed."
Garth Drabinsky, as chairman of Cineplex Odeon, also launched a film production division. In December 1989, Mr. Drabinsky resigned after an unsuccessful bid to take the company private. New management is holding a huge yard sale, selling off theaters and its half interests in the Film House production laboratory and Universal Studios in Florida. The Cineplex film production unit is being disbanded.
Harold Vogel, a media analyst at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, said that theater owners have given up the synergistic search, frustrated that they reaped neither increased market share nor profits. They are left with a familiar excuse. In Mr. Vogel's words, "At the time it looked like a good idea."
 
Hot Tickets, No Legs

This Year, a Dearth Of Durable Hits
Too few Batmen, not enough Pretty Women mean meager profits for the owners of theaters. The decline in major releases, to 472 in 1989 from 515 films in 1984 , has hurt them, even though the cause has been small, independent companies going out of business.
Compounding the theaters' problems this year was a dearth of durable hits. Eager for megahits like the previous summer's "Batman," many studios produced big-budget action films and promoted them with brassy advertising. "Another 48 Hours," "Days of Thunder" and "Air America" all had sensational openings, but, in the industry's term, no legs. Some, like "Days of Thunder," soon yielded to days of silence, leaving the theaters after a few weeks.
Theater owners were sorry to see them go. The owners prosper most when the same movie fills their theaters month after month, buoyed by good word-of-mouth. After they keep enough of the box office receipts to cover their operating costs, theater owners split their gross with the distributors. Initially, the distributor gets 90 percent. Only after a film has been playing for several weeks does the exhibitor claim a increasing share. "Batman" was a bonanza, showing for months and giving exhibitors time to take a healthy cut of the box office gross.
Disney's "Pretty Woman" and Paramount's "Ghosts" were successful this year, but not as successful as "Batman." Several owners say total revenues are down at least 5 percent at most of their theaters this year. And Mr. Logsdon estimates that the lack of other durable hits has cut the theaters' take of box office revenues from 52 percent in 1988 to 48 percent this year.
How about the current Christmas season? Theater owners are hoping that Paramount's "Godfather III," bursting with blood and gore, will still give the year a happy ending.
 
The Small Survive

Once More, Into the Niche
In the theater business, size does not necessarily spell success. It might be an obstacle.
Consider Carmike Cinemas of Columbus, Ga. With 982 screens, Carmike shuns major markets for cities like Albany, Ga., and Montgomery, Ala. First it opened theaters across the South, then reached into the smaller towns of the West. Sending an endless stream of "Rambo" and Arnold Schwarzenegger films into cities near the South's many military bases is a Carmike specialty. Revenues grew from $54.9 million in 1988 to $65.0 million last year, while profits rose from $3.3 million to $6.2 million.
At National Amusements Inc., Mr. Redstone has built a distinctive company by buying, rather than leasing, his sites, and building large, technically advanced multiplexes. "We will spend several years developing a single multiplex, preferably at the intersection of major highways, which has the advantages of accesiblity and visibility," Mr. Redstone said. "We spent three years finding the site and getting the correct zoning for a site in Berlin, Conn., that is scheduled to open on Dec. 7." National Amusements is privately owned, but competitors say it has done well -- well enough to have helped Mr. Redstone buy Viacom Inc., the diversified media company.

 
 
GOING ABROAD FOR GROWTH
NOW that American theater chains have glutted their own market with screens, they are looking abroad. The major companies are buying land, signing up partners and building more theaters, especially in Western Europe.
The theater chains have found a ready market, with American films as popular as ever. They have concentrated on Europe for its healthy economic growth and more reasonable land costs than Japan. In many European countries, movie theaters never expanded into the suburbs. Theaters there are often outmoded, with picture and sound equipment that American companies consider antique.
Perhaps the greatest growth has come in Great Britain, because of the common language. Five years ago, ticket sales were sagging as viewers favored videocassettes at home over larger screens in shabby, outdated theaters. The industry, spearheaded by American companies, then added more than 300 movie screens for a total of 1,700. British ticket sales rebounded from 52 million in 1988 to 92 million last year. Industry executives estimate that one-fifth of those sales were generated by new multiplexes.
Cinema International Corporation, a joint venture of MCA and Paramount, plans to continue building in Britain, to raise its screen count from 131 this year to 310 in 1991. Sumner Redstone's National Amusements is also expanding in Great Britain. Mr. Redstone said that he has built seven multiplexes, buying the land as he goes, much as he does in the United States.
American companies are active, but less ambitious, elsewhere overseas. Cinema International is carrying out plans to nearly double its screen count on the Continent to 80 from 42 this year. Time Warner Inc. is building a theater complex in Germany, and has a joint venture for two complexes in Denmark. It is also looking at locations in Spain, Portugal and the Far East. And, to make sure the Soviet people enjoy the full benefits of glasnost, the company has announced plans for theaters in Leningrad and Moscow.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After years of growth, theater chains are contracting. Theaters in Manhattan, left, and suburban New York. (John Sotomayer/The New York Times; Barton Silverman/The New York Times); charts: revenues, profits and margins of movie theaters in the U.S., 1983-1989 (Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (93%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (93%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (84%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS512132 DRIVE-IN MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (71%); SIC7833 DRIVE-IN MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (71%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (71%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (63%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (63%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMC ENTERTAINMENT INC (93%); LOEWS THEATRE MANAGEMENT CORP (84%); BB LIQUIDATING INC (84%); NATIONAL AMUSEMENTS INC (71%); WALT DISNEY CO (63%); UNITED ARTISTS THEATRE CIRCUIT INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES MOVIE THEATERS (91%); TICKET SALES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (65%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (60%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE SUMNER REDSTONE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



770 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
The Hot New Global Income Funds

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to mutual fund marketing, only three things matter: yield, yield and yield. So that's what folks think about when they dream up new fund products, and they've hit the jackpot with short-term global income funds.
These funds promise higher yields than money market funds or certificates of deposit -- and less fluctuation in value than long-term bond funds. They've become the hottest funds of the year. 
 Assets of short-term global income funds have soared to nearly $7 billion, from $400 million at the beginning of the year, with most of that growth coming since late summer. Nearly a dozen funds have hit the market and several more are in the works.
 But even as money flows into these funds at an astonishing rate, at least five big groups -- Franklin, Dreyfus, Federated, Vanguard and MFS -- have decided not to set them up. They worry that investors don't understand that these funds carry some risk and that they may not be able to sustain the high yields, now about 10.5 percent.
"We feel there are risks involved that we don't feel comfortable with," said Chuck Johnson, senior vice president of corporate development for Franklin Resources Inc., in San Mateo, Calif.
The granddaddy of short-term global income funds is the $3.4 billion Alliance Short-Term Multi-Market Trust, which started in the spring of 1989, pretty youthful for a granddaddy. Since then, it has built a remarkable record: For the 12 months ended Nov. 1, it has yielded an average of 10.9 percent, and its total return -- yield plus changes in principal value -- was 12.95 percent. That compares to a 10.48 percent return for all world income funds, said Lipper Analytical Services, which tracks mutual funds.
Meanwhile, the value of the fund's shares has remained stable. The fund's net asset value, which equaled $9.70 when the fund was first sold in April 1989, hit a low of $9.55 in June and a high of $10.01 in September. Its principal-only return -- which reflects changes in the value of fund shares, without yield -- was -2.1 percent. By contrast, the average long-term bond fund lost 4.8 percent, according to Lipper.
How does Alliance do it? It takes advantage of interest rates elsewhere that are higher than United States rates, and invests in securities that mature in less than three years. Short-term holdings minimize interest-rate risk, and the average maturity of Alliance's holdings ranges from 6 to 14 months. And to minimize credit risk, the fund holds government securities and corporate short-term paper, which are rated AA or better by Standard & Poor's, and certificates of deposit.
The fund must keep at least 25 percent of its assets in American dollar-denominated paper. Right now, the rest is in other currencies: Canadian (15 percent), Australian and New Zealand (15 percent) and a basket of European currencies (45 percent). Having such a large part of its portfolio denominated in dollars means that some currency risk is eliminated, but it could also cut the return.
The heavy exposure abroad, by contrast, increases currency risk -- but also potential return. To minimize swings in share price, Robert Sinche, the fund's manager, relies on sophisticated hedging techniques. The cost of an ordinary hedge would bring the yield on the foreign paper down to United States rates. So Mr. Sinche "cross-hedges" instead -- he buys long a high-yielding currency and sells short a low-yielding one. That is less expensive than straight hedging but riskier: For the system to work, the relationships between the high- and low-yielding currencies must remain stable.
And stability can be elusive. For example, last year the spread between the West German mark and the British pound ranged from 3.03 to 2.74 -- a variance of about 10 percent. "There's margin for error here," Mr. Sinche said.
There are other problems. Effective hedging requires fancy footwork. "Few fund managers are able to hedge successfully on a consistent basis," said Catherine J. Gillis, senior analyst with Morningstar Inc., Chicago-based mutual fund consultants.
And because these funds' yields are compared to money market yields, investors might think they are just as safe. Are they? "Absolutely not," said Mr. Sinche. Global income funds are permitted under their bylaws to have a much longer average term -- three years rather than one for money market funds -- which increases interest-rate risk. They also carry currency risk, unlike money market funds, and the value of their shares can fluctuate.
"The funds claim that they hedge, but you can't hedge 100 percent and still deliver excess yield, which is the deceptive part of this product," said Greg Melvin, a vice president for Federated Investors, in Pittsburgh.
As investors burned by junk bond funds have learned, you pay for high yields one way or another. The high yields aren't much good if the principal is eroding. The global income funds are"an attractive package," Ms. Gillis said, "but it has that familiar ring of a hot product that can quickly go awry."

 
 
UNDERVALUED SINGLE-COUNTRY FUNDS
 SINGLE-COUNTRY funds look like bargains now because they are selling at steep discounts. Prices for these closed-end funds, which trade on exchanges like stock, are set by supply and demand, and fund shares trade at a premium or discount to the value of the stocks in their portfolios.
While the single-country funds were the most overpriced closed-end funds on the market when the year began -- the outlook for foreign economies was much brighter then -- they are now the most undervalued group. After a stable spring, discounts deepened on bad news in the Middle East, hitting nearly 15 percent during panicked selling in September. While discounts have shrunk, prices are still down and that's "a clear buy signal," said Thomas J. Herzfeld, a Miami-based investment adviser. He said prices should stay low through yearend as people sell investments that have gone sour in order to take a tax loss for 1990.

GRAPHIC: Chart: assets of short-term global income funds in 1990; discount or premium to the net asset value of an index of 20 single-country funds, Jan.-Oct. 1990 (Source: Thomas JU. Herzfeld Advisors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BEN (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (81%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (87%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE CLARE SHORT (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



771 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Has Become a Technological Wasteland

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Japanese companies, you report (front page, Nov. 11), have begun to establish theoretical computer science research institutes in the United States, staffed by scientists lured from American universities and industrial research laboratories.
This is a deeply distressing development, but it is no surprise to those close to the American technology scene. Fresh Masters of Business Administration, with two or three years of postbaccalaureate education, get salaries of $50,000 and up in this country; established lawyers in the New York area are reputed to average $250,000 a year.
Contrast the case of a Doctor of Philosophy scientist with five to eight years of postbaccalaureate study, largely consisting of on-the-job training in research. He or she will start with at most $40,000 in a Government or industrial lab.
Those Ph.D.'s impecunious enough to consider university research jobs are faced with typical starting salaries in the low to mid $30,000's as postdocs or assistant professors. Typically, such researchers must then spend at least a year, sometimes much longer, on a full-time search for research funding before they can seriously resume their work. This situation is worst in mathematics and applied mathematics, fields in which theoretical computer scientists often take their degrees.
Stars can make more money, but it takes years of hard work and low pay to establish a scientific career. Some of us keep at it, but the grossly declining pool of Americans pursuing Ph.D.'s in science and engineering should come as no surprise.
Salaries are just a symptom of the generally low value placed on the technical elite who generate ideas and technologies that drive the United States and world economies. Japanese companies have apparently realized this and are out to correct it, naturally for their own profit.
Unfortunately, the state of the marketplace probably makes the Japanese vertical integration of the semiconductor industry, from wafer production to software, irreversible. An entire industry will have been moved across the Pacific in less than 20 years, starting from nothing but a well-considered and directed plan and intent. It is unlikely that United States industry and academia can compete with Japanese companies, in salary or the preferred perquisites of scientists -- access to the newest and best research equipment.
The impoverishment of our universities in equipment has been documented in Department of Energy and National Science Foundation studies. Studies indicate a "deferred technology base maintenance" deficit of tens of billions of dollars in equipment alone. This money will not be coming from Federal or other sources in the foreseeable future.
Furthermore, salary distortions and other factors have led to gross declines in the undergraduate science and engineering student base that supports faculty hiring in these fields.
This has also been documented in National Science Foundation studies.
Graduate education is in worse shape, with about half the graduate engineering students in the United States resident aliens. This proportion is, of course, much higher in the elite universities (for example, 65 percent in some Stanford University departments). The nationals of some countries apparently know a closeout bargain when they see one.
The United States electronics industry is shorn of the mass-market manufacturing profit base that for years supported the David Sarnoff Labs, A.T.& T. Bell Labs and the like. These research facilities have largely been sold, closed or redirected in ways that are causing wholesale desertion of their staffs, as you mention. Struggling to maintain profitability in our much-vaunted "free trade" environment, these companies can ill afford to enter a bidding war in the high-risk area of research, which can obtain long-term returns at best.
A colleague of mine built a complete microfabrication facility at San Francisco State University, containing millions of dollars in equipment, for $50,000. Behind this accomplishment is the collapse and dismantling of high-tech industry in the United States. Facilities that cost tens of millions of dollars and hundreds of man-years to establish are being sold for scrap or donated to ambitious and frustrated university researchers who don't need to show a profit.
Every month I visit yet another closed-down semiconductor custom manufacturing facility in New Jersey to scavenge donations of valuable equipment for my lab. Bitter employees show and tell the unsurpassed technical and manufacturing feats of their moribund employers, then tell a familiar story of foreign acquisition or predatory competition, followed by financial failure and dismantling of the facility.
There has been no reported foreign rush to hire American M.B.A.'s, lawyers or financiers, stars or otherwise. As the old Silicon Valley joke goes, it takes a good lawyer, a good M.B.A. and a good engineer to start a computer company. When the company is sold or goes broke, the M.B.A. has all the money, the lawyer has all the patents, and the engineer is looking for a job.
It appears that, if he or she is good enough, the engineer may at last find prospects for a great job looking up -- working for a Japanese company, of course.
 
C. J. MARTOFF
Associate Professor of Physics, Temple University,
Philadelphia, Nov. 11, 1990

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: NTSC (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (85%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (85%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (85%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); RESEARCH COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MATHEMATICS (74%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



772 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TENSIONS;
Can the Sanctions Work? Many Aides Are Doubtful

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24 As President Bush pursues authorization from the United Nations to use military force against Iraq, Administration officials and Congressional critics are increasingly focusing on the question of whether economic sanctions alone could force Saddam Hussein's hand.
State Department, Defense Department and intelligence officials say the sanctions have succeeded in blocking nearly all of Iraq's international trade and financial transactions and are causing shortages of many items, including tires and grains.

 BODY:
 But they added that despite these successes, the sanctions would not significantly hamper Iraq's military for at least six months. President Saddam Hussein, they say, has managed to protect vital civilian and military industries and services by manipulating his state-planned economy to shuffle resources.
 
What Hussein Is Doing
 To alleviate the pain for his civilian population, the Iraqi leader is shifting factory workers back to the countryside, where they are expected to increase food production over the next several months. Mr. Hussein has also hoarded food stolen from Kuwait and closed nonessential factories to preserve spare parts for vital plants.
Even if the civilian population begins to feel the pain, Administration officials doubt that Mr. Hussein will care, or that his security apparatus will have any trouble squashing any incipient social unrest.
The officials say the sanctions are not likely to topple Mr. Hussein or bring about an Iraqi retreat from Kuwait before the spring at the earliest, an analysis that has provided ammunition for those who think the United States should act militarily, sooner rather than later.
Shortly after President Bush announced earlier this month that he was sending an additional 150,000 or more troops to the Persian Gulf, a senior Administration official explained: "We're not prepared to give this guy unlimited time, whoever's side time is on. Clearly, sanctions are not at the point where he is seriously constrained."
 
Disagreement in the Senate
 But others disagree, including Senator Sam Nunn, the chairmen of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Senator Claiborne Pell, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. The two senators, who plan to hold hearings on the Gulf crisis over the next two weeks, have wondered in recent days why the United States should risk the lives of tens of thousands of American soldiers before giving the near-airtight sanctions the time to strangle President Hussein.
President Bush, speaking as he returned to Washington on Saturday, refused to specify how long he would wait for sanctions to work against Iraq. He said that at the United Nations, "We'll be discussing not only the need to consider further action, but perhaps a time frame."
Administration officials say the goals of the embargo remain the same as those stated when the sanctions were approved by the United Nations Security Council in the weeks following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2: to incite a military or popular revolt, or persuade Mr. Hussein that whatever benefits he gained from conquering Kuwait are not worth the economic punishment. But officials concede that none of the preferred outcomes are likely to occur any time in the next six months, and possibly not for another year or more.
"Are the sanctions biting?" the State Department official asked. "The evidence is contradictory." The official said that while a country like the United States needed two years to get its economy on a war footing, Iraq's system of economic planning was ready to withstand hardships from the very beginning of the crisis.
 
Breakdown of Effectiveness
 Officials and foreign-policy specialists familiar with the sanctions offered the following breakdown of their effectiveness:
*Administration officials say that 90 percent of food imports have been halted, and that supplies of tea, sugar, rice and white bread are running short. Rice, flour and cooking oil are being rationed. Some foods have risen in price by as much as eightfold. But Iraqis are not going hungry, and the markets remain full of most foods. Stolen Kuwaiti frozen and canned foods and grains should assure stocks of vegetables for months to come.
*Approximately 40 percent of the nation's industrial capacity has been shut down. But careful Government planning is helping to limit the damage. Nonessential plants, like those producing clothing, have been closed to save lubricants, chemicals, spare parts and electricity for vital industries, particularly those that are military-related. This "cannibalism" of parts from one industry to another will eventually damage machinery, but that will take several months.
*The embargo is costing Baghdad $1.5 billion every month in lost oil sales, figured at pre-invasion oil prices. The embargo has succeeded in blocking all but a trickle of Iraqi oil exports. Administration officials say that the oil that filters through the Jordanian border is not a serious problem because its sale merely pays off Iraqi debts and does not raise new capital.
*Administration officials say international authorities have succeeded in freezing virtually all Iraqi and Kuwaiti bank accounts. But they are not certain whether the embargo has succeeded in halting the Iraqis from selling gold stolen from Kuwaiti coffers, valued at up to $500 million.
*An Iraqi official said last weekend that medical supplies, which are exempt for nonmilitary purposes, were running short, but State Department officials were dubious of the report.
 
Well-Stocked Military
 Administration officials note that Mr. Hussein has said his troops will be the last touched by the sanctions.
For more than a decade, the Iraqi president employed his nation's oil wealth and borrowings to buy and stockpile enough guns and ammunition to sustain his million-man army for the long war with Iran. Since the Aug. 2 invasion, Mr. Hussein has hoarded additional supplies of fuel and food -- sometimes depriving his civilian population in the process -- in order to keep his military well stocked.
Administration analysts doubt the embargo will lead to a military revolt, but they suggest it might hurt Iraq's ability to fight in the event of war. There have been reports of difficulties in retreading tires for military trucks and armored vehicles, shortages of spare parts for their French-made radar systems and their elite fleet of Mirage F-1 fighter jets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GULF STATES (78%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (70%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); EMBARGOES; MILITARY ACTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



773 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 36; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Irish Wait to Escape Emigre Shadow

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

 BODY:
A furtive existence, life in the shadow of the law, is about to end for thousands of Irish immigrants who have been living in this country without visas or legal documentation.
They work as nannies in Manhattan, taking the subway in from Queens to look after other people's children, or in pubs at the north end of the Bronx, pouring pints of Guinness while cursing English soccer teams on television. Many work as drivers in the horse carriage trade around Central Park. Above all, they have tried to remain invisible to Federal authorities. 
 Now, communities of young Irish immigrants in New York, Boston and San Francisco are awaiting President Bush's signature on an immigration bill that would more than double the number of visas available to natives of Ireland. They see the immigration bill as their ticket out of a life in fear of discovery. "Ireland is an economic disaster right now," said Finola Doherty, who came to New York two years ago and found a home, and a succession of jobs, in Woodside, Queens. "Here, there is work and a community where you can fit in, but we've had to keep our heads down."
 
Expired Tourist Visas
 The Irish, of course, are not singular in their status in America as illegal aliens. But they have been hard hit by recent immigration policies that have made it impossible for most of those who wanted to stay in this country to become legal residents, with work visas known as green cards.
The overwhelming majority of the Irish here illegally have overstayed six-month tourist visas. The bill, which Congress passed in October, will guarantee that applicants for work visas will not be arrested or deported for overstaying while the application is processed.
Since 1980, more than 180,000 Irish, or about 5 percent of the population, have left the Republic of Ireland. Fleeing a country where nearly one in five people are out of work, the new Irish immigrants have come to America, in large part, for the same reasons that drove previous generations across the Atlantic. More than 40 million Americans now trace their ancestry to Ireland, according to the Census Bureau.
But unlike earlier Irish immigrants, most of the new Irish exiles are hiding from Federal authorities, rather than registering with them.
 
Immediate Family
 "When you're looking at this country through a barred window, you can't take full advantage of it," said Sean Minihane, national chairman of the Irish Immigration Reform Movement, an organization that advises immigrants.
Of the more than 600,000 applications for visas in the last three years, about 54 percent were from natives of Ireland; the vast majority of those Irish were turned down, in part because immigration policy favored applicants with immediate family mmembers already in the United States. A gulf of nearly 40 years between the last big wave of Irish immigrants and those who have come in the last decade has made it hard for most of those who want to stay now to qualify for work visas. Recent immigrants from Latin America, Southeast Asia and Africa more commonly have immediate family members here.
In an attempt to redress the imbalance, Congress included a provision in the new immigration bill that would grant work visas to nearly 50,000 Irish over the next three years -- more than double the number granted in the last three years. All told, the new immigration bill would allow about 700,000 people to come to this country in the next three years, up from 500,000 that would have been admitted. Federal officials say between 40,000 and 110,000 Irish are living in this country illegally, and most will be able to stay, either with the new work visas or through marriage to Americans.
 
Black-Market Birth Certificates
 In New York, they have transformed parts of the Bronx and Queens into neighborhoods where Gaelic can be heard and Irish soda bread is sold alongside potato knishes. Cafes display appeals for hunger strikers in Northern Ireland, and folk songs heavy with expressions of lyrical sorrow are sung late into the night.
Some of the new arrivals say they have purchased false birth certificates, which are sold on the black market for prices that can equal a month's salary.
Most of the illegal Irish immigrants live on a cash economy, the men working day labor jobs or in bars, the women working as baby sitters or house cleaners or waitresses. Without a green card, they have been unable to get driver's licenses, open checking accounts or qualify for health insurance. When they are injured on the job, they cannot qualify for public health care or assistance.
Their biggest fear, they say, is being deported. In San Francisco two weeks ago, a group of Irish immigrants were rounded up by Immigration and Naturalization Service officials who were acting on a tip from an informant, their lawyers said. They were allowed to stay in this country pending a hearing.
"Quite a few people have been picked up here in the last year," said Maire O'Mahony, a schoolteacher from Ireland who works with immigrants in San Francisco. "Following the earthquake, there was a lot of work here for the Irish in construction, but now they are encountering a great deal of heartache."
 
Threats and Insinuations
 Fewer run-ins with immigration officials have been reported in New York. But the fear of being turned in and sent back to Ireland is no less real. The informants, in some cases, have been Irish-Americans, say some immigrants.
Derry Clark, trained as an electrical technician in Ireland, has been working in New York as a bartender and in day labor on construction jobs. He is paid in cash and has had to live with threats and insinuations about his legal status. The Government's shadow, he said, is never far.
"Last August when I went home for my sister's wedding, the American immigration authorities were there at the airport in Ireland with a list of questions about what I planned to do," he said. "I told them all I wanted was to find some work."
As soon as the immigration bill is signed, he plans to apply for a work visa, which would allow him to stay in this country indefinitely. "I'm tired of having to put up with all the whispers and uncertainty," he said.
The threat of deportation has been used by landlords to deprive tenants of a damage deposit that may rightfully be theirs or by employers to withhold wages, say those who work with the Irish.
"They came from a place where there is no work and very little future, so employers tend to take advantage of them, playing off that fear of having to go back," said Sean Benson, who has worked on behalf of Irish immigrants who say they have been cheated by employers. "Whenever you have a group that is not protected by the laws, they can be exploited. Employers feel these people have no resources, no place to turn."
It has also worked the other way around.
"I find, in this town, that the Irish accent is an advantage," said a red-bearded bartender from the Bronx named Colin who has been living as an undocumented alien in New York for four years. "In some bartending jobs, I've got one up on the other lad by virtue of how I sound."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Whenever you have a group that is not protected by the laws, they can be exploited," said Sean Benson, who has worked on behalf of Irish immigrants who say they have been cheated by employers. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LAW AND LEGISLATION IMMIGRATION (94%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); SOCCER (71%); CENSUS (65%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



774 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 40; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: FLORIO UPSETTING CONSERVATIONISTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
When Gov. Jim Florio came into office with a strong environmental record in Congress, New Jersey environmentalists saw him as a savior. But in less than a year they have grown disillusioned, worrying that the Governor may be too accommodating to industry and developers.
"I think they forgot their job is to protect the environment," said D. W. Bennett, executive director of the American Littoral Society. "They don't seem to have in the upper echelon people whom I would call flamethrowers -- people who reflect a real keen interest in natural resources, open space and the ecosystem. 
 "I think the idea was Florio was going to be the environmental governor and maybe he'd be the flamethrower. So far, this administration has been somewhat of a disappointment."
Mr. Florio's aides defend the Governor's record, saying his commitment to the environment remains firm. They say he is simply trying to strike a balance between environmental protection and growth as the state's economy and building industry sags.
 
Knight in Tarnished Armor
 Many environmentalists, however, are unpersuaded and share Mr. Bennett's misgivings. The concern was unexpected a year ago, given the image of ardent environmentalist that Mr. Florio had shaped in his 16 years in Congress. He was a principal author of the Federal Superfund program to clean up toxic waste sites around the country.
"Deep in our hearts, we thought he was a knight in shining armor and we'd see big changes," said Marie Curtis, head of the New Jersey Environmental Lobby. "And we haven't."
William R. Neil, an assistant director of the New Jersey Audubon Society, said, "On 'green-side' protection -- which is land conservation -- the signals from the Governor have been very cautious and deferential to the business community."
Environmentalists say they see no signs of a major retreat in Mr. Florio's strong environmental philosophy. In fact, some of his first acts as Governor elated them. They include naming a special environmental prosecutor against polluters; pushing for one of the nation's toughest clean-water bills, the Clean Water Enforcement Act; declaring a moratorium on construction of huge garbage-burning incinerators and setting a statewide goal to recycle 60 percent of all trash.
 
Trenton Hirings Questioned
 Since these early high points, the signs have been unsettling, environmentalists complain.
For the Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, Mr. Florio named a state judge, Judith A. Yaskin, who once threw out on technical grounds a state indictment against Ciba-Geigy, the pharmaceutical company. Joseph Finan, a lawyer for Ciba-Geigy who won dismissal of that indictment, is now Ms. Yaskin's chief aide for policy and planning. Another of her top aides, John Keith, is former environmental affairs manager for Hoffman-LaRoche Inc.
In an interview, Ms. Yaskin said the two men were hired for their management skills. But environmentalists say they fear their presence gives the regulated industries in New Jersey a sympathetic ear in the highest echelons of the Environmental Protection Department. Also, the post of deputy commissioner -- normally filled by a strong environmentalist -- has been vacant for months. State officials say they are still interviewing candidates.
Ms. Yaskin and Mr. Finan have begun overhauling the 20-year-old, $200 million department, in part because of persistent complaints by industry and state legislators that it is a slow, inefficient bureaucratic behemoth.
 
Reorganizing a Behemoth
 The reorganization would create tougher pollution controls on industry and a single office to issue all air, water and land discharge permits for industry. It would centralize various related environmental functions like hazardous-waste cleanup, land management and water and sewer planning, now scattered across several divisions of the department.
Environmental groups say they endorse the overhaul as long as environmental standards are not relaxed. At the same time, they worry that rules against construction in protected wetlands are being chipped away.
In response, Jon Shure, the Governor's director of communications said:
"What there's going to be and needs to be is a sense of balance. He will accept nothing short of super-aggressive environmental protection. But he wants people who need permits to get them in a timely manner. The objective is to make sure air and water is as clean as possible, to prevent and clean up pollution, and to save time by not creating unnecessary obstacles for growth of the state."
On the issue of building in wetlands, environmentalists fear two plans. One state proposal in Westfield would allow the filling of one acre of wetlands for construction of court-mandated housing for poor and moderate-income people. Ms. Yaskin defended the idea as a "public-purpose development."
The other plan deals with a private housing development in 150 acres of woodlands sliced by streams and ravines in Norwood, in northeastern Bergen County. Environmentalists say they were not informed of talks between the state and the developer on a revised stream encroachment permit, which the department granted.
Ms. Yaskin said that she was aware of their objections to the project and that the new permit was as restrictive as legally possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (50%); NOVN (SWX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (50%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (57%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTALISM (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SUPERFUND (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (72%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); WATER POLLUTION (70%); LAWYERS (69%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (67%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (65%); INDICTMENTS (65%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); JUDGES (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); YASKIN, JUDITH A

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



775 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT AIMS AT A HEART TEST TO TRIM EXPENSES

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Since the early 1900's, physicians have relied on a brief test called an electrocardiogram to measure the heart's impulses and alert them to signs of problems. And insurers and patients have usually paid whatever the doctor charged for the test.
Now the Government, trying to slow the growth of medical costs to help balance the Federal budget, has decided that physicians are charging too much for the electrocardiogram and 1,400 other procedures they perform on the elderly and disabled patients insured by the Federal Medicare program. 
 It plans to save $725 million over four years by trimming about 40 percent from payments for this heart test. Many heart specialists and spokesmen for other medical specialties are angry, and say they hope to persuade Congress to change the law before it goes into effect.
 
Battle on Many Fronts
 The battle is a prime example of many being fought between the people who pay for medical care and those who provide it. Medicare has already sharply reduced its payments to doctors for cataract surgery, reading X-rays and other diagnostic tests, and is planning further cuts in many other procedures. At issue in these cases is whether doctors have raised their fees too high, well aware that payment will come in most cases not from the patient but from the Government or a faceless private insurer with seemingly deep pockets.
In challenging the payments for electrocardiograms, the Government's rationale is simple, said Tom Scully, associate director of the Office of Management and Budget: "Should doctors get paid an additional $20 to $30 for reading an electrocardiogram, which normally takes an average of 30 seconds to 60 seconds to read, when they are already being paid" for doing the tests and for interpreting other tests in the price of an office visit? In an electrocardiogram, wires placed on the chest and limbs pick up patterns of electricity generated by the heart, which are recorded on a paper chart.
 
'Potentially Harmful'
 Physicians argue that reading an electrocardiogram can be important in life-and-death situations, requires specialized knowledge and should be paid for accordingly. They also say their charges for electrocardiograms partly compensate for inadequate Medicare payments for the office visit.
"The law is potentially harmful to the patient and unfair to the physician," said Dr. Adolph M. Hutter, a heart specialist at Massachusetts General Hospital and vice president of the American College of Cardiology. Reducing payments "will be a tremendous financial disincentive" for doctors to perform an electrocardiogram, which could mean that an important diagnosis might be missed, he said.
Medicare paid doctors $470 million for 29 million electrocardiograms that the Government classified as routine in 1988, the latest year for which statistics are available. The expenditure caught the attention of Congressional and White House negotiators last month as they searched for items to trim in the 1991 budget. Some negotiators -- it cannot be determined exactly who, since no one is now willing to accept responsibility -- suggested that savings could be realized by eliminating payments to doctors for interpreting the routine electrocardiograms.
Currently, Medicare pays an average of $20 for doing a routine electrocardiogram and an average of $12.50 more for interpreting the test. Some doctors may have been charging an additional amount to the patient. Medicare also pays $25 for the office visit during which the test was administered. (Electrocardiograms given to patients admitted to a hospital are paid for under different rules.)
 
Assertions of Overpricing
 "There is no doubt that the electrocardiogram tests were overpriced," said Dr. John M. Eisenberg, an internist and professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania who is a member of a Congressional advisory commission on payments to physicians. "A modestly trained person can perform an electrocardiogram and provide it to the physician for interpretation. And the equipment is relatively inexpensive." The equipment typically costs $2,000 to $15,000, depending on how sophisticated it is.
Dr. Eisenberg said if a physician is uncertain about how to interpret a test, the results can be sent electronically to a hospital or specialist for a quick review. Specialists themselves can then bill Medicare.
William Hsiao, a medical economist at the Harvard School of Public Health who has directed Federally financed studies of Medicare payments, found that a typical office visit to an internist required four times as much time and six times as much mental effort, clinical judgment and technical skillas taking and interpreting a routine electrocardiogram. Yet Medicare currently pays an average of only $25 for the typical office visit, and $34 for a typical electrocardiogram.
Fearful of Budget Squeeze
Recognizing that problem, Medicare expects to pay about one-third more for each office visit under fee schedules that go into effect in 1992. But many physicians wonder whether they will ever see those increases, given the budget squeeze.
In the search for budget cuts last month, the House voted to eliminate the Medicare payment for interpreting routine electrocardiograms. But Senate Finance Committee staff members noted that there had been little chance to consult with doctors and health economists. So the reductions were put off at least until January 1992 to allow time for further study.
Under the budget agreement signed by President Bush, Medicare will still pay physicians for administering the routine electrocardiogram. And the program will still pay for the interpretations of tests classified as more complex, like electrocardiograms during exercise on a treadmill.
"The fight will be over which electrocardiograms are, by definition, non-routine," said Gail R. Wilensky, who heads the Government agency that operates Medicare.
What Is Routine?
Indeed, some doctors argue that hardly any electrocardiogram for a Medicare patient should be classified as routine. "Very few electrocardiograms are done as a routine," said Dr. Glen F. Auckerman, the president of the American Academy of Family Physicians. He said his patients in rural Jackson Center, Ohio, are often people "who come in complaining of chest pains and passing-out spells, or emergency rescue squad patients."
Budget negotiators estimated that the cuts in payments for electrocardiograms would yield only half the potential savings because some doctors would compensate by increasing other charges. "Physicians have become very sophisicated in figuring out how to get paid," said Representative Pete Stark, a California Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee on health. "It is always a close call: 'Is this a routine or complex procedure?' "
The agreed-upon savings on electrocardiograms of $725 million over four years would be part of $9 billion to be subtracted from Medicare payments to doctors in the budget law. All told, Medicare payments are to be cut by $34 billion over five years, with most of the rest coming from payments to hospitals. The program will get $10 billion more from increases in premiums and deductions paid by people receiving Medicare. (Working people will pay $26 billion in added payroll taxes.)
 
Doctors Are Critical
 Spokesmen for doctors criticized the cuts. "Every time you take more money out of the system it means you can provide less services," said Dr. James S. Todd, executive vice president of the American Medical Association.
While Medicare paid for 29 million routine electrocardiograms and 3 million classified as complex, about 136 million more were given to patients covered by other insurance programs or paying out of their own pockets. While doctors often try to make up for Medicare cuts by charging their other patients more, private insurers often fight back by following Medicare's example in how much they will pay. As a result, many private insurers will probably lower their payments for electrocardiograms, adding to the financial pressure on the doctor.
The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, for example, pays separately for electrocardiogram interpretations, but some insurers like Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Kansas already do not allow such charges.
No one seems ready to take responsibility for the electrocardiogram cuts. Mr. Scully, the White House budget negotiator, said the idea had come from the House Ways and Means Committee. Committee members said that was not so.
"This proposal did not come from Congress," Representative Stark said. "It came from the Administration."

GRAPHIC: Chart: Amount Medicare currently pays for electrocardiograms and office visits (Source: Harvard University study for Federal Health Care Financing Administration) (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

SUBJECT: HEART; MEDICARE; ELECTROCARDIOGRAMS; FEES (PROFESSIONAL) MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (91%); MEDICARE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (72%); STATISTICS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); CATARACTS (67%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



776 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2844 words

HEADLINE: Hard Work Can't Stop Hard Times

SERIES: Scraping By: First of three articles.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WATERLOO, Iowa

 BODY:
Donald and Mary Dalton followed all the rules and held fast to the American dream. They worked five days a week, saved their money and reared five children. Someday, they hoped and believed, they would retire to a lake in Minnesota.
Then, in the mid-1980's, the bottom dropped from their lives. Like millions of other working people around America in the last decade, the Daltons were swept into a kind of economic free fall. At middle age, they became casualties of the new and sometimes brutal order remaking the nation's workplaces. 
 Some people, especially those in low-wage work, have lost ground just by standing still. They stayed at their jobs through a decade or more in which inflation rose faster than wages. Their money has bought less each year, withering the belief in economic self-improvement that is so dear to Americans.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the earnings of American workers in fields like construction and manufacturing and in clerical jobs like store clerks plunged sharply from 1970 to 1989. Workers who were earning an average of $186.94 a week in 1970 were making just $172.74 in 1980, when inflation is taken into account, and only $166.52 in 1989.
Others, like the Daltons, paid an even steeper price. Battered for more than a decade by nonunion competitors and falling profits, the aging Rath meat packing plant where Mr. Dalton had worked for 38 years went bankrupt and closed its doors.
As other factories in town laid off workers, the grocery that employed Mrs. Dalton for 21 years went out of business. Mr. Dalton lost most of his company pension in a futile attempt by employees to keep the plant running. Within two years, the Daltons' income fell to $6,000 a year from $35,000.
The couple found themselves, in their 50's, suddenly scrambling to survive, burning up their meager savings and living off food stamps and whatever work they could find.
"I didn't expect to work most of our lives to have it come to this," said Mrs. Dalton, who is now a clerk at the local Wal-Mart, making $4.75 an hour. Her husband took on everything from janitorial jobs to parking cars at the dog track until illness forced him into disability. "We never meant to quit our jobs," he said. "They quit on us."
In recent months, fears of a recession have become widespread across the country. But for many men and women who planned their futures on the assumption that their blue-collar jobs would provide economic security, the real damage has already been done, and is likely to remain long after the latest swing or two of the economic pendulum.
Over the last decade, industries pressed by low-wage competitors overseas, among other factors, have trimmed their work forces or closed aging factories, eliminating more than 850,000 jobs in manufacturing, most of which paid well.
In their place have come millions of new jobs. But not only do these jobs generally pay less and offer fewer benefits; many are also part time.
What emerges is an economy riddled with sometimes cruel ironies, an economy measured in recent years by falling unemployment rates and record levels of job creation, but also an economy in which more and more people have all they can do to make ends meet and afford basic needs.
According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington, which studies economic trends, the number of working people whose incomes fall below the poverty level has increased by 28 percent since 1978. The poverty level is $12,675 for a family of four.
 
 Shocks Across Economy
 These economic shocks, rippling through society, produce countless varieties of havoc. Many blacks, just now struggling to enter the middle class, must spend much of their money and energy caring for relatives and friends who lag behind. Young people who hoped to skip college and follow their fathers into stable blue-collar work confront instead a bleak array of jobs paying barely more than the minimum wage, always with the threat of layoff just ahead.
The dismantling of the old blue-collar world has left its debris in nearly every town and city in America. In Ware Shoals, S.C., most of the 900 workers at the Reigle textile plant, the town's largest employer, either retired or left town when the company, crippled by low-cost foreign imports, closed its factory for good in the mid-1980's.
And in Berkshire County, Mass., plant closings by both the General Electric Company and the Sprague Electric Company eliminated hundreds of good-paying manufacturing jobs in the late 1980's.
Lawrence Mishel, the research director at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, a group that studies job and wage trends, said the shift toward lower-paying jobs has profound effects that go beyond simple questions of income and poverty.
 
Deep Worries in Waterloo
 "What happens to families where both the parents are now working more hours just to stay even, often at crazy hours, at more than one job?" he asked. "What does this do to our notions about traditional values and family life?"
During a week of conversations with dozens of people in Waterloo, a manufacturing city of 70,000 people in northeastern Iowa, these kinds of deep worries were mentioned again and again, by many of the very people who are now trying to make sense of their own place in the new economy; people who work, but who are barely making a living.
Like many others, the Daltons have been forced to forgo their dreams. With the help of friends, they were able to hang on to their three-bedroom house in Reinbeck, near Waterloo. But there are no vacations now, and there is no more talk of a retirement cottage.
 
 The Comeback

Building on Jobs That Pay Less
Just five years ago, cynics in Waterloo used to joke, "Will the last one out of Waterloo please turn out the lights."
Back then, local unemployment was 12 percent. The Rath meat-packing plant had just closed, permanently laying off more than 1,000 workers, and the John Deere factory -- the town's economic anchor and largest employer, the place generations here have referred to as Papa John -- was sending more than half its workers home for good. Hard hit by the sinking agricultural economy, which dried up the market for its tractors and other farm machinery, Deere reduced its employment here to 6,200 from 16,300.
Amid this gloom, voters elected Bernie McKinley as Mayor. Mr. McKinley was a former insurance man who used to preach at motivational seminars for company salesmen, and his buoyant optimism seemed the perfect tonic for the times. In appearances before business people and city officials, he preached an insistent gospel of civic self-assurance.
"We can be anything we want to be, if we just set our minds to it," he told the City Council, and then exacted a pledge from his fellow civic leaders that Waterloo would do whatever was necessary to add 1,000 new jobs each year.
 
8,000 Jobs in 4 Years
 In fact, Mayor McKinley and the city's economic development boosters have done far more than that. In four years, Waterloo and surrounding Black Hawk County have added 8,000 new jobs and more than 120 new businesses.
Some are manufacturing jobs in small, nonunion shops. But most are service jobs in the new health centers and strip malls and other businesses that have appeared along roadsides, emblems of Waterloo's growing, nonindustrial job base.
Mr. McKinley, a nattily dressed man who drives a blue Cadillac, likes to take visitors on tours of the new Waterloo. He shows them the $2 million renovation at Crossroads Mall on the south side. There are three new motels and a sleek greyhound racing track that employs 200 people.
 
Factory Wave of Future
 Northwest of town, near the airport, two new telemarketing companies employ a total of 400 people. And in the cornfields east of the town, the biggest catch of all: the factory of IBP Inc., formerly Iowa Beef Processors.
If the old Rath plant represented what used to be -- an old, inefficient behemoth where workers earned more than $10 an hour and full benefits -- IBP is the new wave. It built a sleek, $50 million, technically advanced meat-packing plant where starting wages, under a new contract with the United Food and Commercial Workers, are just $6.50 an hour and everyone pays $30 a month for minimum family health coverage.
Mayor McKinley acknowledges that the work pays only a fraction of the wages and benefits that workers earned at Rath, or the $17 an hour still paid at Deere.
"But before IBP came here, we had people riding up to Charles City, more than 100 miles round trip, just to work in a chicken factory for $3.75 an hour," he said. "These days jobs don't pay what the old jobs did. But any job is better than no job."
 
 The Struggle

Life for Four On $4.20 an Hour
In the living room of John Terrones's small, cluttered house in nearby Cedar Falls is a cardboard box piled high with travel booklets; bright, glossy brochures put out by state tourist agencies in South Carolina, Michigan and Colorado.
Late at night, after his two children are put to bed, Mr. Terrones says he sits down and browses through the catalogues, lingering over the photographs of sunsets and green mountain vistas.
"I don't know if I'll ever be able to really see any of these places," said Mr. Terrones, who is 30 years old and works 40 hours each week as an orderly at a nursing home, where he is paid $4.20 an hour. "But this way, at least I can say I know what they look like."
Every two weeks, Mr. Terrones brings home about $300. On weekends, he makes a few dollars more, cleaning houses or doing yard work for neighbors for $5 an hour.
 
Mother Must Stay Home
 Out of that, he pays rent of $150, a car payment of $131 and utility bills of about $100. The telephone costs another $25 and gas that much more again. In the end, there is barely enough left over for groceries.
Mr. Terrones's wife, Linda, does not work. She has to stay home with their son, Tony, 2, who has developmental problems and can neither speak nor sit up.
This year, because of Tony's medical disability, the Terrones began receiving supplmental Social Security payments of about $386 a month. Still, the family's annual income totals barely $13,000, which puts them just over the poverty line.
"I've looked around for other jobs, but they all pay around $5 an hour," said Mr. Terrones, who has worked in the past as a clerk in a fast food restaurant and as a school janitor.
When Mr. Terrones graduated from high school in Cedar Falls in 1979, he said, he hoped to be a cook and someday run his own restaurant. These days, he will settle for something much simpler. "What I wish for now is a decent job at decent wages," he said. "Someday, I'd like to be able to live without having to scrimp for every penny."
 
 A Divided City

Declining Hopes Amid Decay
From his rectory windows, the Rev. George Karnik can see the towers of the Rath plant. Abandoned, it looms over St. John's Roman Catholic Church and the surrounding neighborhood, a symbol of a time that has gone and will probably never return.
The city would like to tear down the old packing plant, at one time the world's largest, employing 7,000 workers, and turn the site into a riverfront industrial park. But the plans will have to wait. The demolition bill alone is estimated at $5 million.
"You can't begin to absorb what it means when a plant like that closes," Father Karnik said.
The city has changed. To the south and to the west of Waterloo, there are new stores and new houses, even a whole new high-rise office complex where, Mayor McKinley hopes, as many as 2,000 workers will be someday.
 
An Area Left Behind
 But here, on the east side, there is a feeling of a place and of people left behind.
Al and Myrna Costa used to stand behind the bar at Babe's Tavern and count out as much as $100,000 in cash every payday, waiting on the regulars who would stop in after their shift ended to cash their paychecks and have a few cold ones.
"Now I'm lucky if I see a couple of Social Security checks," said Mr. Costa, who not long ago had to take a second job, working as a bank courier, so he and his wife could keep the bar open.
"Used to be, you worked hard, you figure you got someplace," he said. "Now I got to work two jobs to stay even."
The changes sadden Father Karnik. "The days, the weeks, used to have a rhythm for people," he said. "People came home at night. They had weekends. Now people got to settle for whatever jobs they can get. They work odd hours. They come and go at different times of the day. They work whenever they can."
In the waiting room of the Cedar Valley Food Bank, a half-dozen people sit on folding metal chairs. It is quiet. No one looks up when someone walks in the door.
A volunteer is at the front of the room. Every so often, she calls out a number, and a person stands up and steps forward to fetch a cardboard box in which there are breakfast cereal and rice cakes, day-old baked goods and butter, crackers and cookies.
 
Still a Need for Food
 Ruth Toney, the director of the food bank, said the number of hungry people who are coming in for help has stayed constant or grown slightly over the last four years, despite the thousands of new jobs in town.
Meanwhile, donations of money and food have declined. "People don't want to hear the bad news," Mrs. Toney said. "They hear about all these jobs, and they see the new stores on the edge of town, and the ads on TV where IBP is looking for workers, and they don't think people are hungry or need help."
A growing share of the food bank's recipients are now working people, Mrs. Toney said. "They have jobs," she said. "But what difference does it make if those jobs just don't pay a living wage?"
Jethroe Parsons, his wife, Linda, and their three young daughters, live in a tumbledown house on the edge of downtown Waterloo. Sheets and blankets are stretched over the windows in place of curtains. The living room and dining room are empty, except for a plaid sofa and a plastic milk box that the Parsons turn upside down and use sometimes as a stool, sometimes as a dining table.
Two months ago, they moved from Milwaukee's inner city, seeking steady work and a better life. In Wisconsin, they were living in public housing in a neighborhood plagued with drug dealing and crime. Mr. Parsons said he had worked there, but the jobs were usually in the suburbs and only paid a dime or so above minimum wage.
 
Misfortune and Problems on the Job
 At first, the Parsonses thought they had struck gold in Iowa. Both were hired at IBP, working separate shifts and earning about $400 a week between them. Their children were in good schools. And they found a three-bedroom house to rent for just $325 a month.
But Mrs. Parsons became ill and had to quit. Then Mr. Parsons pulled his thumb out of its socket on the job, and he said he got into a dispute with a foreman over whether he was well enough to come back to work.
Company officials said that was not the problem. They said he missed too many days of work during his 90-day probationary period. He was dismissed in early November and is now looking for work again.
"We'll make it, one way or the other," Mr. Parsons said. He said he had been to the employment office and there were other jobs, which pay minimum wage mostly, as a night janitor or a nursing home orderly. "All in all, we're still better off here than in Milwaukee," he said. "Half a loaf is still better than none. In Wisconsin, we didn't even have any bread."
 
 The Future

Working More And Playing Less
As the economic landscape of Waterloo has changed, so have the demographics of work and play.
When Rath was running at full speed and Deere employed twice the people, said Adrian Erickson, the owner of the town's biggest bowling establishment, Cadillac Lanes, he used to work around the clock, running industrial leagues.
As recently as 1982, nearly 12,000 men and women were enrolled in leagues in Waterloo, filling Cadillac Lanes' 50 alleys. Last year league membership fell below 5,000.
"People don't have the big paychecks anymore," Mr. Erickson said. "And they don't have the leisure time. Both the husband and wife work, sometimes at more than one job."
Nearby, at Local 838 of the United Automobile Workers, the average age of the membership has climbed steadily as the union's membership rolls have declined.
Layoffs at Deere took the younger workers. Now, most Deere workers are men with at least 14 years of seniority, those in their early to mid-40's, said Jim Schuler, the union's regional representative.
"Young people don't really have much of a chance here anymore," Mr. Schuler said, recalling the days when, as a high school student in Waterloo, he would talk with friends about whether they would try to get a job at Rath or Deere after graduation. "Nowadays, you listen to the kids, and they're talking about what state they are going to go to look for work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald and Mary Dalton, who lost their jobs that they held for years in Waterloo, Iowa (pg. 1); The city of Waterloo, Iowa, hopes to tear down the old Rath meatpacking plant and turn the site into a riverfront industrial park. The cost of the demolition, estimated at $5 million, caused the plan to be put off; John Terrones with his wife, Linda, and their children, Tony and Tina, at their home in Cedar Falls, near Waterloo. Every two weeks, Mr. Terrones brings home about $300; . "All in all, we're still better off here than in Milwaukee," said Jethroe Parsons. He and his wife, Linda, moved to an apartment in the downtown section of Waterloo with their children, Kijafa, left, Kelah, center, and Katonya. (Photographs by JIM WILSON/The New York Times); graphs: civilian unemployment, entire U.S. and Waterloo area, 1980-1990 (1990, through August); Waterloo jobs in manufacturering, 1980-1990; food bank demands in Waterloo, 1980-1990 (1990, estimate) (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Iowa Dept. of Employment Services, Cedar Valley Food Bank) (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES; 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BLUE COLLAR WORKERS; PRICES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (87%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CLOSINGS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (69%); STATISTICS (68%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (67%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



777 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: ANTI-DRUG EFFORT DRAGS OUTSIDE U.S.

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24

 BODY:
Nearly two years after President Bush declared his war on drugs, Administration officials say they have made little progress toward blocking narcotics trafficking from Latin America into the United States.
"We've had a degree of success," said Melvyn Levitsky, Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics Matters, "but nowhere near what we want to have." 
 Administration officials say better progress has been made on cutting demand for drugs. They say that drug consumption has been reduced among some sectors of American society and that this answers Latin American criticism that not enough is being done to tackle drug abuse at its true source -- the abuser.
But the Administration's program, as outlined in a White House report to Congress in January, includes among its goals a reduction of imports of cocaine and other illegal drugs by 15 percent by the end of 1992 and by 60 percent by the end of the 1990's. Administration officials said they could not be sure if imports of cocaine, the drug that is exacting the greatest toll on the United States, had been cut by even 5 percent in the last year.
 
Shipments Redirected
 The officials noted that while they have succeeded in stemming nearly half of the cocaine trafficking through the Caribbean into Florida, statistics on drug seizures indicate that shipments have merely been redirected through Central America and Mexico into the American Southwest.
John P. Walters, who will be acting director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy when William J. Bennett's resignation takes effect at the end of the month, acknowledged that "there's the risk of failure" in American efforts.
"These are countries with enormous economic and social problems," Mr. Walters said of the Latin American drug-producing nations. "At times, we're working in areas where governments don't even exercise control."
For example, Administration officials said that while the Colombian Government has made much progress interrupting the operations of the cocaine ring based in Medellin, Colombia, it has overlooked the growth of the country's other major cocaine ring, operating out of Cali. The disruption of the Medellin ring has also encouraged new drug gangs and coca cultivations to appear in Bolivia, Ecuador, Brazil and Venezuela.
"It's like hitting mercury with a hammer," said a State Department official who deals with drug policy.
 
Panama Banking Laws an Issue
 The problem extends even to Panama, where the United States invaded 11 months ago to overthrow a Government allegedly linked to drug traffickers. American officials noted that the new Government is resisting attempts to rewrite banking secrecy laws that are utilized by drug money launderers. Panamanian officials insist that the current laws are more than adequate to prevent such abuses.
Some officials said they worried that while the Administration concentrated on limiting cocaine production and shipments from the Andean countries, cultivation of heroin poppies was rising in Guatemala and Mexico.
The Bush Administration approach links trade preferences to anti-narcotics efforts and emphasizes disrupting trafficking organizations by destroying processing labs over the more traditional approach, crop eradication. Central to its war on cocaine is the so-called Andean Initiative, a five-year, $2.2 billion aid program to break up cocaine production and trafficking organizations and strengthen local economies and government institutions.
Administration officials said that the disruption of some trafficking has caused a substantial drop in coca leaf prices in parts of Bolivia and Peru, prompting some peasants to switch voluntarily to legal crops, and that a modest decrease in cocaine imports in some parts of the United States resulted in a decrease in the potency and an increased in the price of cocaine sold in several American cities.
 
$2.2 Billion Aid Program
 But American officials point to Peru as the toughest problem facing the Administration's drug war in Latin America. With 300,000 acres of land planted in coca and 200,000 peasants employed in its cultivation, Peru is by far the largest source of the raw material for cocaine. The Peruvian Army is reluctant to disrupt coca-growing for fear of driving the farmers into the arms of the leftist Shining Path guerrillas, and the rebels profit from the coca trade by taxing traffickers.
A State Department official who recently traveled to Bolivia described visiting a farm owned by a peasant named Florencio in the Chapare coca-growing region. Florencio had destroyed more than 40 acres of coca plants in the last year in exchange for thousands of dollars in American economic aid, and now cultivates papayas, black pepper and macadamia nuts.
But not all is going well at Florencio's farm. He and his family still live in a dilapidated shack. He complains that life was easier in the days when the cocaine middlemen used to come to him to buy coca leaves; now he has to drive his pickup truck four hours on bad roads to sell his produce. And he continues to grow a few acres of coca as a hedge.
"Florencio is the model but he is still not getting ahead," said the State Department official. "He told us he made more money last year growing coca. It's discouraging."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); PANAMA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; LATIN AMERICA

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); COCAINE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SHIPMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); BANKING LAW (63%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



778 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-21
Military strategists in Iraq are taking steps to offset the technological superiority that will be the U.S.'s major military advantage in any Persian Gulf conflict, defense and intelligence specialists say. Page 1
Iraqis to release 11 from Britain 13
Can sanctions work? Many aides are doubtful 12
The "Harlem Hell Fighters," a National Guard unit consisting of black and Hispanic soldiers, have become the New York City's first Guard unit sent into Saudi Arabia. 14
In Beirut milestone, the last militia starts pullout 12
News analysis: Mikhail Gorbachev presented a blueprint for a politically redesigned Soviet Union that promises greater sovereignty to the republics, but no guaranteed shrinkage of the central Government. 16
The winner of the Polish elections for president will face difficult political and social choices in the struggle to rebuild the country's devastated economy. The front-runner is Lech Walesa, the Solidarity leader. 16
Kohl savoring "this happy hour" 16 Margaret Thatcher's resignation has stunned the opposition Labor Party in Britain, erasing its lead in polls and leaving it with few perceived policy differences with Conservatives. Polls show that Labor would trail Conservatives if elections were held now. 3
And the wagerers say... 3
Tea factories shut after threats by militants 17
A wave of new arrests in Myanmar, formerly Burma, has come in response to a rise in opposition activities. Despite liberalization around the world, the Burmese military maintains its tight hold on power. 20
Asians at U.N. reluctant to criticize Burmese for rights abuses 20
South Asia leaders ask anti-drug effort 21
Rival black group offers to join Mandela 4
Ethiopian combatants agree to open port to food 6
Anti-drug effort clogs outside U.S. 9
Argentine union leader blunt about payoffs 10
Kasparov and Karpov adjourn in first game in France 38
 
National 24-35
Doctors overcharge for a heart test, the electrocardiogram, and 1,400 other procedures they perform on people insured by Medicare, the Government contends. Budget officials plan to save $725 million by trimming from payments for the heart test. 1
U.S. Supreme Court to hear case on obesity 32
Tough times are hitting workers in America. Many low-wage earners have seen their paychecks eaten by inflation. Others, like Donald and Mary Dalton of Iowa, have been thrown into an economic free fall by plant closings and layoffs. 1
An underdog computer technology called massively parallel processing has emerged as the solution to what will power the next generation of supercomputers. The technology involves scores of independent processors working as one computer. 1
A major entertainment company, MCA Inc., which owns Universal Studios, and the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company of Japan are expected to announce as early as today that they will merge. 1
 A dig for gold in California will be undertaken on public land by a Canadian mining company. In an extraordinary agreement, environmentalists gave their blessings and the company agreed to concessions never made before by the industry. 24
Thousands of Filipino veterans who served in the United States military in the Far East during World War II hope that after 45 years a new law will finally give them recognition. 24
Chicago Journal: Seeking new harmony but finding racial rift 24
U.S. is scrutinizing immigration fraud 25
Addicts stealing diapers to resell 29
Again in Capital, a homicide record 31
Past catches up with convict, who faces a stiffer sentence 35
 
 Regional 36-44
The first black Republican to be elected to the House of Representatives in over 50 years is Gary Franks, a little-known alderman from Waterbury, Conn. He has modest hopes for his first term, but Republican leaders are hailing his election. 1
The hardest part of being on strike for Ruben Vazquez, one of 2,300 people striking The Daily News, is hearing the squeals of his youngest granddaughter and knowing he will not have much money to buy presents this Christmas. 36
Communities of Irish immigrants who live illegally in New York and other cities are awaiting President Bush's signature on an immigration bill that would more than double the number of work visas available to natives of Ireland. 36
The Neediest Cases Fund of the New York Times begins its 79th annual appeal today in the midst of economic hard times, making the needs of the poor all the greater but contributions all the harder to raise. 36
Once divided by war, now united by tourism 37
Training to crew on QE2: It's not all sun and beaches 38 Environmentalists in New Jersey have grown disillusioned with Gov. Jim Florio, who was seen as a savior when he came into office. They worry that he may be too accommodating to industry and developers. 40
New York Hospital receives $25 million from foundation 44
Obituaries 42
Fred Shero, coached Philadelphia Flyers to Stanley Cup
Archie Brown, union leader
Arts/Reviews 67
Campus Life 47-53
Fashion 60, 62
Life Style 56
Pastimes 68-71
Weddings 63-67

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (60%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (60%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (60%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (60%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MYANMAR (94%); FRANCE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN MINING CO INC (60%); PANASONIC CORP (60%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); DRUG POLICY (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); PLANT CLOSINGS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (67%); TEA (65%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (65%); COFFEE & TEA (65%); OBESITY (63%); CLOSINGS (60%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (60%); MEDICARE (54%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



779 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Believed Near Purchase Of the Owner of Universal Studios

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
MCA Inc., one of the nation's largest entertainment companies, and the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company of Japan are expected to announce as early as today that Matsushita is acquiring MCA.
People involved in the negotiations cautioned yesterday that some issues remained to be settled. But simply that the negotiations have come so far, in a difficult economic climate, reflects the voracious foreign appetite for American entertainment companies. 
 The board of MCA, which owns Universal Studios, Universal Pictures and MCA Records, is expected to meet in New York today and accept Matsushita's offer, which is believed to total $6.7 billion to $6.9 billion.
That would bring MCA stockholders $72 to $74 a share. In recent days MCA's stock has been trading in the high 60's. When the companies first disclosed in late September that they were negotiating, MCA stock was trading around $34.50.
If the deal is completed, Universal will become the third major Hollywood studio to be acquired by foreigners in about a year. In the fall of 1989, the Sony Corporation, a rival of Matsushita, bought Columbia Pictures for $5 billion. Last month, the Pathe Communications Corporation, owned by the Italian financier Giancarlo Parretti, completed its $1.3 billion acquisition of the MGM/UA Communications Corporation. A fourth studio, 20th Century Fox, is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, which is incorporated in Australia.
Matsushita (pronounced maht-SOOSH-tah), best known for its consumer-electronics products sold under the Panasonic, Quasar and Technics brand names, controls an empire of 87 companies in Japan and nearly as many abroad. [Business, section 3.]
The drive by foreigners to acquire American movie companies is a natural one, given that no other country's film industry has ever been able to produce movies with worldwide appeal. And American moviegoers, who make up one of the world's biggest audiences, have little interest in foreign films. As such, foreign entertainment companies have difficulty selling their films in the United States. Taken together, those conditions make movies one of America's biggest net exports.
MCA owns an extensive film library -- including the "Jaws" films and "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial." It also operates a broad television production business that has produced "Miami Vice" and other hit series. Its relatively small record division was recently bolstered by the acquisition of Geffen Records, whose artists include the rock group Guns 'n' Roses.
The company's other main business is theme parks. MCA operates the Universal Studios tour in at the company's headquarters in Universal City, Calif., just outside Los Angeles. Recently, it opened a second studio tour in Orlando, Fla.
 
Skyrocketing Costs
 At least in the opinion of some experts in the movie business, profits may have peaked and it is time to sell. Certainly the Japanese are buying in as film production and distribution costs are skyrocketing and as profit margins for many American film companies could begin to slide.
"Profits will be down slightly in 1990, down more in 1991, and they could be down again in 1992," said David Londoner, a media industry analyst at Wertheim Schroeder & Company. "Basically, things have just gotten out of hand. Costs have skyrocketed, but the box office is essentially flat. The home video business is still growing, but more slowly."
But how well the Japanese investment will pay off remains unclear.
In buying first CBS Records and then Columbia Pictures, Sony officials said they wanted to achieve "vertical integration," in which their company would make and sell hardware for entertainment -- Walkman tape players, videocassette recorders, compact disk players and so on -- and also produce the "software" played on those machines.
Since then, vertical integration has become an entertainment industry buzzword, and Matsushita and its president, Akio Tanii, apparently felt compelled to follow Sony's example.
 
Long View of the Japanese
 Harold Vogel, a media analyst at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, notes that the Japanese are known to take a long-term view.
"The assumption is that the ability to sell multimedia products is the key to future market share growth," he said. "But there is no indication to date that the strategy will be successful in the movie business. At this point in time, the theory has not proven right or wrong."
If the MCA deal is completed, Matsushita plans to keep MCA's management in place, people involved in the negotiations say. But Matsushita has not said how closely it will oversee them.
Sony, on the other hand, spelled out a hands-off management strategy for Columbia. But that goal has run into an unexpected hurdle at Sony's record division. The Japanese had counted on Walter Yetnikoff, the chairman of CBS Records, who orchestrated its sale to Sony, to stay in place. But Mr. Yetnikoff said recently that he had decided to step aside. Sony's president, Norio Ohga, is effectively running that company for the time being.
 
Boon for Shareholders
 However the anticipated MCA deal works out for Matsushita, it should prove a boon for MCA shareholders. Lew Wasserman, who has been MCA's chairman for decades, had originally hoped to get as much as $90 a share for the company, according to industry reports. While the purchase price will be lower, it is nevertheless higher than MCA's stock has ever traded.
Mr. Londoner, the media analyst, estimated that if a deal was completed at $72 a share, MCA shareholders would receive $69 in cash and a share of stock or a fraction of a share of stock worth about $3 in MCA's television station in the New York City area, WWOR-TV.
The merged company would be forced to create a separate company to own WWOR-TV, Channel 9, which is based in Secaucus, N.J., because Federal laws prohibit foreign ownership of broadcast stations.
MCA, founded in 1923 by Jules Stein as the Music Corporation of America, has one of the most stable managements in the entertainment business. Along with Mr. Wasserman, its president, Sidney J. Sheinberg, has been at the company for decades.

 
Biggest Beneficiaries
 The merger will make Mr. Wasserman and Mr. Sheinberg enormously wealthy. Another beneficiary will be David Geffen, the record executive who acquired 10 million shares of MCA stock when he sold Geffen Records to MCA this year.
The final negotiations have had their moments of volatility, particularly because Mr. Wasserman is an unusually tough negotiator who resisted selling his company during a decade marked by mergers, despite repeated interest from blue-chip buyers.
After negotiations started in New York last Monday, things did not go smoothly, and as recently as Wednesday night there was considerable skepticism among the negotiators that a deal would be reached.
Mr. Wasserman was said to be unhappy with the price that Matsushita was offering.
But by Thursday the mood was better, a person involved in the talks said, and the price gap narrowed.
 
Shuttling Between Law Firms
 Bankers, lawyers and the principals themselves shuttled between Simpson Thatcher & Barlett, the law firm representing Matsushita, and Watchel, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, MCA's law firm, throughout the weekend.
Felix G. Rohatyn, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company, the investment banker representing MCA, returned from a Thanksgiving holiday for talks on Friday and Saturday.
Herbert Allen, a partner at Allen & Company, the investment banking firm representing Matsushita, joined the negotiations, as did Michael Ovitz, head of Creative Artists Agency, which had brought the two companies together.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Akio Tanii of Matsushita. (Caroline Parsons); Lew Wasserman of MCA Inc. (Laura Luongo/Gamma-Liaison) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (96%); NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); SON (LSE) (69%); SNE (NYSE) (69%); 6758 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (96%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (68%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); AUSTRALIA (74%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC CORP (96%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); NEWS CORP (82%); SONY CORP (69%); PATHE COMMUNICATIONS CORP (68%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCA INC; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO; UNIVERSAL STUDIOS

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; MOTION PICTURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); FILM GENRES (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); LIBRARIES (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



780 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 36; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Lean Times for Daily News Strikers

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
For Ruben Vazquez, the hardest thing about being on strike against The Daily News is hearing the playful squeals of his youngest granddaughter, Ivana.
"I don't have money to buy presents for my granddaughters, and it makes me feel so sad that I don't look foward to Christmas," he said as the toddler tumbled into his lap in his Bronx apartment. "I see them and it breaks my heart to think that on Christmas I will come up short." 
 As one of 2,300 striking union members, Mr. Vazquez is having to scrimp to make ends meet with meager strike benefits, limited savings and a new-found frugality. Co-workers who have crossed the picket line have suggested he follow them back to work, saying that his $53,000 job supervising the computer room is still open. But he has refused, saying that he will only return when his union, the Newspaper Guild, has signed a new contract.
He spent the day after Thanksgiving doing some cajoling of his own in front of the stores on Fordham Road in the Bronx, buttonholing Christmas shoppers and pressing leaflets into their hands urging them to boycott stores that advertised in The News.
 
$800,000 Strike Fund
 Other families are cutting back expenses, juggling bills and feeling the pressure as the strike enters its second month. Members of eight of the nine striking unions are entitled to as much as $150 in weekly strike pay as long as they put in a minimum of 16 hours a week distributing handbills or walking the picket lines. Only drivers union members get no strike pay. If the strike continues into mid-December, all the strikers will be eligible to collect several hundred dollars more each month in unemployment benefits.
Barry Lipton, president the Newspaper Guild of New York, said the strike benefits provided by the international headquarters of his union were, on average, higher than the other unions'. His local had also built up an $800,000 strike fund, augmented by $35,000 in donations from sympathetic people and unions in other industries, which the union is using for printing, telephones and transportation.
In cooperation with the New York City Central Labor Council, the Guild has set up a telephone number for strikers to call if they need personal or financial counseling or help working out payment problems with creditors. One local bank is offering $2,000 loans to qualified strikers, Mr. Lipton said.
 
Determined to Make It Through
 Mr. Vazquez, a boyish, quiet-spoken 49-year-old whose black hair is flecked with gray, is determined to make it through the strike. At the outset, he and his wife, Millie, huddled with their children and set financial priorities, deciding that the rent, utilities, food and credit card debt would take precedence over any other expenses.
Luckily, they pay only $405 monthly for the five-and-a-half room apartment in the Morris Heights section of the Bronx where they have lived since they were newlyweds.
They no longer eat out, and Mrs. Vazquez buys food in bulk, foregoing red meat for chicken and carefully saving leftovers. Their two grown daughters who live with them, Vicky, a law firm secretary, and Elena, a corporate travel agent, have also begun to chip in, bringing home sacks of groceries and helping with a few hundred dollars here and there. Their two other children who are married, Julie-Ann, a bank secretary, and Eric, an appliance salesman, have helped, too.
The couple also got a two-month deferment from credit card companies to whom they owe $6,000.
 
Dipping Into Savings
 The Vazquezes have dipped into the $10,000 they had saved toward retirement, and say that as a last resort, they will sell the quarter-acre they own near Fort Myers, Fla., on which they had planned to build their retirement home.
Mr. Vazquez said that the strike benefits and the $264 he expected to collect in unemployment insurance would help. "I feel I can budget myself, counting there is no illness or something tragic," he said.
In their bright living room, where one wall is covered with dozens of pictures of their children, Mrs. Vazquez said that the strike has helped bring the family closer together, with most of them -- including grandchildren in strollers -- regularly going out to rallies along with their father.
She said she sat down with the children in the early days of the strike while her husband was out of the house and bluntly told them that the uncertain future would test their mettle.
 
'We Have to Pick Him Up'
 "Now Daddy is down and we have to pick him up," she explained. "That moral and emotional support surprisingly helps a lot. If I nagged him about the bills, that would destroy him."
Still, she said, she is worried about the toll the strike has taken on her normally cheerful spouse, saying that he can overreact to the slightest irritation and that most mornings he awakens at 4 o'clock and lies in bed staring at the ceiling. "All of a sudden this Rock of Gibraltar is being moved," she said.
Mr. Vazquez said he has invested too much time in the union to back off now, even though his wife had urged him to look for another job rather than endure the constant tension.
"This is not for me, but for the labor movement," he said. "It's because of the unions that the average person in large cities is making a better salary."
He said that if he saw no progress in the strike by early next year, he would consider looking for a part-time data-processing job that would leave time to devote to the strike.
 
Some Have Not Waited
 Some strikers have decided not to wait, including a number of high-profile writers who joined other news organizations. Mr. Vazquez said he understood the defections.
"Offers only come around once, especially nowadays, no matter how good you are," he said.
But he does not understand those who have crossed the picket line, including those who have told him they could not bear the financial burden of striking. He said he had reminded them of single mothers who had vowed to stand firm despite the hardship.
"We all need the money, but if these girls can stay out on strike, how could somebody else be so weak?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruben Vasquez, a striking Daily News worker, with his wife, Millie. In the background were his daughter Vicky and his granddaughter Ivana. "Idon't have money to buy presents for my granddaughters, and it makes me feel so sad that I don't look foward to Christmas," said Mr. Vasquez. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAILY NEWS (NEW YORK)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; STRIKES; NEWSPAPERS STRIKES (91%); CHRISTMAS (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); FAMILY (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



781 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Minors and Majors Are Ready to Split

BYLINE: By CLAIRE SMITH

 BODY:
"Bye-bye, minor leagues."
Margaret Bavasi, the co-owner of the Class A minor league team in Everett, Wash., was devastated when she saw that headline recently in a local newspaper. 
 "People here are confused," Bavasi said from her Washington home. "The city of Everett trusted us to have baseball here, in place. What they're reading in the paper makes them think we won't have baseball here anymore. What is happening has threatened my livelihood, my family, my community."
What has happened? Negotiations between the major and minor leagues have failed to produce a new professional baseball agreement. The current contract expires Jan. 11. With it could go a relationship that has existed since 1901.
Close to 60 minor league clubs have seen their contracts with the parent clubs expire. Other clubs are still affiliated with major league teams, but they also belong to the National Association, the minors' governing body. And that association vows to fight on the merits of its positions even if it means bolting from the majors. Sal Artiaga, commissioner of the National Association, said: "We feel we have to retain the right of self-governance. That's free enterprise. You have to have the right to control your own destiny."
 
Thorny Questions
 The very idea of two minor league systems is already prompting questions, such as who will own the territorial rights to cities and what assignments of players will be honored if the majors start moving players from the secessionists to new outfits.
As much as fans might like to think otherwise, the idyllic image of a minor league life style may be shattered for good by the economic hardball and power plays more readily associated the big leagues. That should not surprise, however. The relationship between the majors and minors has changed. It has done so, in large part, because the minors -- and their worth -- have changed, something the majors couldn't help but notice.
"The 26 major league clubs pay the travel expenses to and from spring training for the players, signing bonuses, the instructors, the managers, the coaches, the trainers," said Bill Murray, the majors' director of baseball operations. Now, he said, the minors' latest proposal would add $150,000 per team to what each major league club already pays, approximately $4.5 million to $6 million per year.
"We train them in spring training, then drop them off on their doorstep," Murray said. "Look, all we're looking for is a fairer shake in setting the structure, seeing to it that it is able to meet the needs of our clubs."
If that is not attainable through negotiations, Murray said, the 26 major league clubs are willing to start a new farm system. And he has warned that a negotiating session in New York on Tuesday may be the last before the split does, indeed, occur.
 
Clock Is Ticking
 How close is that? "I believe the clock is relevant now," said Marvin Goldklang, a limited partner of the Yankees and co-owner of four minor league teams, including Triple-A Oklahoma City. "And I believe it's tied very closely to the timetable of winter meetings."
The minors will gather in Los Angeles and the majors in Chicago the first week of December. "That's where contingency planning sessions will be held and that irreversible step could take place," Goldklang said. Still, Goldklang, for one, remains optimistic. "I believe this will be resolved because people, for the most part, do not commit mass suicide," he said. "It's simply got to be resolved because, if it isn't, if ball parks across the country start going dark, we're not only all going to be losers, but big losers."
Bavasi, though, is more than concerned. "This has really blindsided us," she said, even though her team is still affiliated with the San Francisco Giants. "It shows us we really aren't in control. For seven years, we had an excellent relationship with the Giants. Now, we can't sell season tickets or advertising. We really thought our future depended on how well we operated. I didn't think that major league baseball, or make that the commissioner's office, would come in and do this to us."
 
Seen as Encroachment
 The latter comment refers to an issue that has apparently touched quite a few nerves. The majors have attempted to formalize rules regarding scheduling, travel and ownership transfers. Minor league owners see that as attempted encroachment not by owners but the office of the baseball commissioner.
"The commissioner has always had the authority to step in," Murray said, referring to a "best interest of baseball" clause historically included in contracts between the majors and minors. The new proposals, he said, came from the ownership committee, not Fay Vincent, the commissioner. "It's important for us to know that the system works well," Murray said. "We don't think that it does."
Still, the proposals were so troublesome to Bavasi she decided to try to go right to Vincent. He declines to speak publicly on the contract issues, however, saying he is not a part of the negotiations. Instead, he refers all questions to Murray and the owners involved in the negotiations. And Murray, the chief negotiator, has talked to Bavasi.
Still, Bavasi said: "We need to know where the commissioner stands on this. What is broken that he thinks needs to be fixed? He seeks to control us, we've been told, but he has yet to say anything on the problems we're having in negotiations. I don't know what kind of man he is. Can we trust him? I don't know who's hands my future is in."
 
Business Is Booming
 Just as sensitive an issue is economics. The minors are enjoying a resurgence. Attendance in the 17 leagues exceeded 25 million this year, a 37-year high. While there are "mom-and-pop" operations among the approximately 170 teams across the United States, Canada, as well as the Dominican Republic and Mexico, there are also big-business success stories.
In 1976, Joe Buzas bought a team in Reading, Pa., for $1. Ten years later, he sold it for $1 million. Ben Bernard, who bought the West Haven, Conn., team for $75,000 in 1979, then moved it to Albany a year later, sold that club for more than $2.5 million in 1985. The Edmonton team in the Pacific Coast League is reportedly changing ownership for $6 million in Canadian currency. Teams in the Class A California League that sold for $125,000 a few years ago now go as much as $1.2 million.
The majors look at such numbers, their expenses and wonder about the formula. Murray, giving one example, said the average expenditure for player salaries on a Triple A team is $785,000. The parent club pays all but $21,000.
"We've indicated our willingness to play a greater economic role," Artiaga said. The minor leagues have offered to relinquish annual payments made by the majors for the right to beam national television broadcasts into the minors' territories; the fees totaled $1.8 million last year. The minors have also offered to hand over 5 percent of their net ticket revenue; that could amount to $1.5 million in 1992.
While the minors would prefer the status quo, some owners say the money is negotiable, but only so long as the control issue is taken off the table. And the minors are not ready to give up as much money as the majors want.
So there's no settlement. Bottom lines being what they are, neither side has moved far away from its own to make a difference yet.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Waterbury Indians playing at Municipal Stadium. Negotiations between minor and major league teams have failed to produce a new agreement. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES; MINOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS BUSINESS (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



782 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: The New Order;
Peace Isn't So Simple as the End of Cold War

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
WHEN revolutions or wars turn things upside down, the politicians, craving stability, always start trying to institutionalize the new world order. After Napoleon came the Holy Alliance, after World War I the League of Nations, after World War II the United Nations. So last week, 34 countries -- the United States, Canada and all the European states except Albania -- had a go, around a hexagonal table in Paris, at inventing something to replace the cold war and its institutions.
The conference did better at architecture than at construction, describing and to a degree designing the common European home that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union likes to talk about, but not actually building much. 
 It ratified the end of the cold war -- even Mr. Bush finally overcame his reluctance to confine that conflict to the dustheap of history -- but all it actually created were three offices (in Warsaw, Prague and Vienna) and a schedule of future meetings for foreign ministers and heads of government.
Worse, all sorts of uncertainties kept crowding in upon those who had come to Paris, reminding them how many unresolved questions they faced.
Groping its way toward a new foreign policy whose prime aim may be to contain conflict that threatens its economic interests, rather than containing Communism, and toward a new multilateralism, based in considerable degree on the United Nations, the United States finds itself curiously dependent upon the old adversary, the Soviet Union.
Before and during the conference, Mr. Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d held three long and apparently difficult meetings with Mr. Gorbachev and with Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister, seeking, in effect, their blessing for the use of force against Iraq. The United States no longer feels completely comfortable about going to war, as it did in Vietnam, without clearing it with the Soviets and with many others.
If the United States needs the Soviet Union in that respect, Moscow desperately needs Washington and Washington's old cold war allies if it is to have any hope of successfully tackling its economic difficulties. Facing the onset of winter with grocery store shelves bare, Mr. Gorbachev went shopping in Paris for food.
He gave Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada a list of shortages that included flour, pork, cooking oil and other commodities, and he won the promise of an early visit from a high-level European Community delegation bearing the details of emergency assistance worth at least $1 billion.
The United States is reluctant to pour money into what it sees as an impossibly inefficient system. But even if most of the effort is wasted, Washington will find itself obliged to try to help ward off famine; that issue, along with new arms-reduction initiatives, is sure to stand at the head of the agenda for the next Bush-Gorbachev meeting, tentatively scheduled for January.
But an even greater concern was discussed here, though not reflected in any of the official documents or much mentioned at news conferences. Finnish, Czech and Polish officials talked openly with their colleagues about their fears that Mr. Gorbachev may open his borders, allowing millions of refugees, many with ethnic ties outside the Soviet Union, to head west.
Such a tidal wave of migration, if it developed, might put a particular strain on Germany, which is already struggling to bring its eastern regions up to the level of the western areas, and which must also absorb ethnic Germans from the wobbly new democracies across Eastern Europe.
There is little that the rest of Europe can do about migration; there is nothing it can do about the threat of national disintegration in the Soviet Union. While Mr. Gorbachev has comprehensively reorganized his country's system of government for the second time in a year, there is no assurance that the new system will take hold in the republics far from Moscow, and Boris Yeltsin is still threatening that Russia may have to raise its own army.
There is much irony in all of this, of course. Perestroika and glasnost have made freedom in Eastern Europe, arms reduction and the end of the cold war possible; in that sense they have helped to build stability. But they have raised expectations where once there were few, unleashing economic and ethnic and political forces that have helped to destroy stability.
The tanks facing each other across central Europe are no longer the problem, in other words, but the economic and political tumult swirling about them can be every bit as lethal.Jozsef Antall, the Hungarian Prime Minister, spoke here of the dangers of replacing the Iron Curtain with a Welfare Wall.
In such a situation, there can obviously be no certainty that Mr. Gorbachev will last until January. The tenuousness of power was demonstrated for all to see during the conference, not only by his troubles, rumbling away over the horizon, but also by those of leaders who live nearby. The minority Government of Premier Michel Rocard of France survived a censure motion by only five votes, and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher didn't survive at all.
Mrs. Thatcher's downfall introduces another uncertainty into Mr. Bush's calculations. If Mr. Gorbachev has been the agent of change over the last decade, working with two American Presidents to dismantle decades of hostility, the Iron Lady has been the most reliable ally in all things, from the bombing of Libya to preserving NATO to the crisis in the Persian Gulf.
 
A New Tune?
 None of the three contenders to succeed her is likely to change the words that constitute British foreign policy, but each will have his own music -- Michael Heseltine, who first challenged Mrs. Thatcher and ran her a close enough second on a first ballot for the Conservative Party leadership that she chose not to stay in the race for a second, or John Major or Douglas Hurd, who both joined the fray after Mrs. Thatcher withdrew on Thursday.
The Soviet Union and Germany want the mechanism established here, known rather cumbersomely as the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, to grow eventually into a pan-European security system to replace NATO and the Warsaw Pact.
Britain and the United States have prevented that, for the moment. But the leader who succeeds Mrs. Thatcher, together with Mr. Bush, will eventually have to find some means to ease Moscow's feeling of isolation from Europe's main organizations, NATO and the Common Market, and to assure Eastern European nations that they are not permanent poor cousins.
Vaclav Havel, the President of Czechoslovakia, says his country and others in Eastern Europe sense that they are in "a political and security vacuum." That kind of feeling breeds resentment, especially when accompanied by reawakened nationalist emotions.
If they are to achieve the stability they want, the leaders of the big countries will have to find ways to address that problem, along with all the others, before meeting next in Helsinki in 1992.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%); POLAND (79%); VIET NAM (75%); CZECH REPUBLIC (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (75%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EAST EUROPE; PARIS (FRANCE)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); FAMINE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



783 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 4; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Leftovers;
Musings on Cold Turkey

BYLINE: RICHARD F. SHEPARD

 BODY:
THE weekend after Thanksgiving is one that finds the American home deep in the leftovers that are a challenge to the hands that rule the kitchen. The turkey often gains flavor on the second day, certainly when, with the help of barley and vegetables, it is transformed into turkey soup, or, in a lighter vein, into turkey salad and, not at the top of every gourmet's list, turkey croquettes. It is also, perhaps, a time for musing about leftovers of other kinds.
The idea of leftovers is one that runs through the story of humankind, where what to do with surpluses on the one hand and shortages on the other
have led to war, to invention, to skullduggery, to idealism. 
 A political visionary named Joseph limned an economic program for Egypt whereby the leftovers of seven good years would put pita on the table during seven lean ones. For thousands of years, the idea of storing left-over water from flood periods kept slaves building dikes along great rivers of the world.
Left-over people are basic to the ethnic conflicts erupting in areas where enclaves of groups, like Armenians, Indian Moslems, Jews and Arabs, Greeks and Turks, were left over during the great migrations.
In many ways, the left-over situation is one that hints of a prosperity, a surplus to be disposed of, a superfluity that may benefit others. The United States is lucky to be a country strong on leftovers. Excess grain is shipped off to places that are short on wheat. Army and Navy surpluses are sold in stores that cater to the chic or the frightened, with the heavier leftovers, like old airplanes, tanks and bombs, going to fuel the smaller wars whose players are willing to fight with leftovers.
The idea of having something left over is built in to the psyche of a country that counts Ben Franklin, the American Adam Smith who preached that a penny saved is a penny earned, among its founders. Savings implies leftovers, so it is small wonder that the spectacular failure of savings and loan institutions not only hit the nation in the pocket but in its belief that savings insured there will be something left over.
Paradoxically, the concept of left-over goes hand in hand with the concept of shortage. The label endangered species is an urgent call to preserve a breed -- elephant, rhinoceros, bald-headed eagle -- that has been hunted to the point where it has become a leftover, not a surplus but a struggling remnant. Left-over timberland, left-over houses of rare vintage, all of these become more dear as there are fewer of them. The left-over automobile of last year goes into a scrap heap, the automobile left over from 50 years ago becomes a rarity.
The rule is that a big left-over may be a problem, but if it dwindles to a minuscule left-over, it becomes precious.
But not always. The danger of degenerating into a left-over hangs over persons, peoples and nations. The homeless, the jobless, the rootless, all are part of the left-over problem in a nation grown used to surpluses, mostly of the good sort.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARMENIA (79%); EGYPT (76%); INDIA (76%); 

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING DAY THANKSGIVING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); ARMIES (71%); RELIGION (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); RIVERS (67%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (63%); SAVINGS & LOANS (61%); MAMMALS (51%); BANK FAILURES (50%); 

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



784 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: The Region;
Albany Looks Longingly at Land It Can't Pay For

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
QUIETLY but arduously, New York State has been negotiating over the last few years to buy some of the most spectacular plots of privately held land in the state. Among these are Sterling Forest, an 18,000-acre parcel in Orange County that is the largest stretch of woodlands left in the New York City metropolitan area, and the Whitney Property, 51,000 acres of wilderness that includes one of the largest undeveloped lakes in the Adirondacks.
But with the voters' rejection earlier this month of the $1.975 billion Environmental Quality Bond Act, nearly half of which was to be spent on land acquisition, the state has no secure source of funds with which to buy such properties. And in the midst of the current financial straits -- legislative leaders will confer here this week to consider Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's call for up to 10,000 layoffs of state workers and sharp cuts in aid to local governments -- the odds that much money will be found in the general budget look slim. 
 Land acquisition was by no means the only casualty of the bond act's defeat, which lost in a 51 to 49 percent vote in the Nov. 6 election. The $175 million for park renovations and historic preservation and $100 million for part of the much-delayed, post-Westway esplanade along the Hudson River in Manhattan will not be forthcoming either.
There is also the loss of hundreds of millions of dollars that the state would have shared with local governments for closing leaking landfills, protecting water supplies and initiating recycling programs. Officials here say the state simply cannot provide anything close to these amounts without the level of borrowing that the bond act would have entailed.
Wittingly or unwittingly, the voters seem to have said that the costs of many projects would have to be borne at the local level, which most municipal leaders have already said will lead to steep tax increases. Closing landfills, upgrading sewage-treatment systems, even recycling -- all are burdens for local governments, many often mandated by the state. The only question left is how they will pay for them.
Land acquisition, however, is a separate issue. Nobody, it seems, "has to do it." But the bond act's defeat raises serious issues of whether the state would be wise to forego all land purchases, particularly those above the Long Island aquifer or in the Catskills watershed that help protect the drinking supply for millions of people in the downstate area.
Some efforts have been made to protect such land by revising zoning restrictions, but they have been known to run into legal challenges and often wind up forcing the state to pay anyway, by indemnifying private owners against any loss in land-use value. Not only has New York no money to buy land outright, but it has also run out of funds to purchase such conservation easements.
 Since the days of Theodore Roosevelt, the state has had a conservation tradition that served as both a legacy to future generations of New Yorkers and a model to other states in the nation. Forest preserves in both the Adirondacks and the Catskills, for instance, were set aside and declared, in the words of the state's constitution, to be "forever kept wild."
But for all the eloquence that Governor Cuomo sought to muster during his exhaustive personal campaign to push through the environmental bond measure, the voters' decision has, for now, left the state without the financial means to act on preservationist visions.
To many of the groups that fought the bond act, this is not a bad thing.
"Our basic position was that the state already owns nearly half the land in the Adirondacks," said Frederick H. Monroe, chairman of the Adirondack Fairness Coalition, which represents a group of North Country residents embittered by the push for wilderness.
 
Economic Issues
 Members of the coalition believe that preservation comes at the expense of the local economy, which is already depressed.
"The question that they wouldn't answer," Mr. Monroe said, "is, when is it all supposed to end?" About 13 percent of the state is owned by the state government, 300,000 acres of it bought with $240 million that came from two now-depleted 1972 and 1986 environmental bonds approved by voters.
Proponents of land preservation, however, ask the question differently: is now the time to stop altogether? Even some of the state officials who argued against the bond act on fiscal grounds, including State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, said they certainly did not believe that the state had run out of environmentally sensitive parcels to protect.
Many environmental groups, while bitterly disappointed at the bond act's narrow loss, are trying to put a brave face on the situation. "Whenever you have a defeat, you have an opportunity," said David J. Miller, the Northeast regional vice president of the National Audubon Society. "It awakens people."
The defeat "was by no means a vote against the environment," Mr. Miller added. "It seems to have sprung from fiscal concerns."
If borrowing to buy land is not in the offing, several environmental leaders said, then now is the time for the state to establish a permanent fund for land acquisition, probably with tax revenues set aside specifically for that purpose. Last year the Legislature created a new 2-cent-a-container tax whose revenues -- around $84 million -- were to be used to pay off debt on the bonds. Now that money will become available for other needs, with literally dozens of interests competing for it.
The state's environmental conservation commissioner, Thomas C. Jorling, has said the state must look for alternative ways to finance land purchases, but he has yet to propose specifics.
The Governor, who was one of the few people anywhere in the state to warn early on that voters' fiscal concerns could easily run afoul of their Earth Day fervor and who is currently struggling to close large gaps in his budget, has already said that land acquisition cannot now be a priority.
"He made it clear all along -- without the bond act, the money would simply not be available," said Frank Murray, Mr. Cuomo's chief adviser on environmental affairs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: State plans to buy Sterling Forest, privately held land in Orange County, have been delayed indefinitely. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); Table listing what was lost from the rejected Enviromental Quality Bond Act. (Sources: New York State Legislature; Governor's Ofiices)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ZONING (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); WILDERNESS (72%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (71%); CITIES (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (70%); LAYOFFS (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); WATER QUALITY (65%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



785 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
For Immigrants, Tough Customers

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
JOHN EDWARDS sometimes hears from angry customers who come into his clothing shop in Chicago's mostly black Roseland neighborhood, bringing their complaints about the Korean merchants whose stores are up and down 113th Street.
They tell him the Koreans are rude. They say they charge too much or sell produce that is not fresh. They say the Koreans treat all black people as if they were shoplifters. 
 "But mostly, they don't like it that these stores in their neighborhoods are owned not by black people, but by Koreans or Arabs," said Mr. Edwards, a black who is president of the local merchants association. "Their main complaint is, why are these people here?"
 These are increasingly familiar laments about the Asian, Arab and other foreign-born merchants who dominate the network of street-corner markets and liquor stores in inner-city neighborhoods around the country. Whatever the city and whatever the merchants' origins, the stories are strikingly similar.
The most clamorous fight is in Brooklyn, where a boycott of two Korean-owned markets is nearing its anniversary despite negotiations, a court order and a report from a mayoral task force that distributed blame in several directions. The picketing began after a black woman was chased from one of the stores last January. The grocers said she had refused to pay for all her purchases; the woman said she was assaulted without provocation.
In Philadelphia, two black men were shot in separate incidents last summer by Korean shopkeepers who said the men were attempting to rob them. The incidents provoked angry protests and picketing.
The targets of resentment are sometimes Indian or Chinese or Cuban, and in the Midwest, particularly, they are likely to be Arab. Earlier this year, Arab-American groups in Chicago were outraged by a sign that a white storekeeper put in the window of a store he was remodeling in a mostly black West Side neighborhood. It advised that "no Arabs will be involved" in the store's management.
For decades, many poorer neighborhoods, both black and white, have been served by small shops run mostly by immigrant entrepreneurs. Where there are Arabs and Koreans today, there were once Jews and Italians and Greeks, who pooled family resources and turned to wives and siblings and cousins to work long hours for a slim profit.
"To them, the store is everything," said Cherif Bassiouni, professor of law at DePaul University and president of the Mid-America Arab Chamber of Commerce. "It is their future and their hope. So when they see kids shoplifting, this is like taking the food from their mouths. They will fight back."
Among many Koreans, mostly immigrants who scraped together what they could to buy a small foothold on the American dream, complaints like the ones Mr. Edwards hears are galling. Yoon Lee, a sociologist and president of a Chicago-based Korean-language cable television station, said Koreans resent being cast "as scapegoats for the failure of American society to deal with the inequality among the races."
"I know black people look at us and see us succeed, and it only reminds them how far they are still behind," said Mr. Lee. "But you cannot blame Koreans or Arabs for that."
Many blacks see something different. "What they see are people who are not black, who are soaking up economic opportunities that ought to be available to them," said Ivan Light, a sociologist at the University of California at Los Angeles who has studied immigrant entrepreneurs. "They see people who are taking their money out of their neighborhood."
This resentment is compounded by cultural misperceptions. Koreans or Arabs who do not make eye contact or engage in small talk with customers, for example, are often perceived as rude when they are behaving as shopkeepers in their home countries do.
Judith Goode, a sociologist at Temple University, said foreign-born merchants do not necessarily share retailing traditions like "service with a smile."
"Americans manufacture affect as a part of commerce," she said, "whereas others feel business is to be done brusquely and quickly."
According to Dr. Goode, the number of mom-and-pop stores owned by immigrants also reflects the realities of the inner-city market. While such enterprises are opportunities for those with poor language skills, very few upwardly mobile blacks -- or, for that matter, American-born whites -- want to invest in small, marginal businesses in declining and sometimes dangerous neighborhoods.
And less well-off blacks who might be interested in a vacant store simply do not have the networks of informal financial support and business advice that is commonplace in immigrant communities.
Last summer, the tensions in the Roseland neighborhood led to picketing of some Korean-owned stores, as well as a march organized by Robert Shaw, a Chicago alderman. In response, the merchants promised, among other things, to hire more blacks and to deposit some receipts in black-owned banks.
Even Alderman Shaw now applauds the Koreans' efforts. And while he is still unhappy that it is Koreans or Arabs, rather than blacks, who are running stores, he said the real culprits are not the immigrants but lenders who won't help blacks buy into the American dream.
"I'm talking about black banks, too," said Mr. Shaw. "They loan somebody $80,000 in a blink to buy a new Mercedes, but they won't come up with $18,000 to make a down payment on a food market."
Unless black small business is encouraged, said Mr. Shaw, the situation will never change. "Except," he said, "that 20 years from now, it will be some other immigrant running the store where black people will still be spending their money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Merchants who are targets of resentment in minority neighborhoods in the Midwest are likely to be Arabs or Koreans. Sign displayed earlier this year by a white Chicago storekeeper advised that "No Arabs will be involved" in the store's management. (Jim Klepitsch/Chicago Sun Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ASIAN-AMERICANS; ARAB-AMERICANS; URBAN AREAS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) CITIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ARAB AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); STRIKES (87%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); SHOPLIFTING (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); MEN (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); RELIGION (65%); SOCIOLOGY (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E JOHN EDWARDS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



786 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 31; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: A Defense of Doctors In Treating AIDS

 BODY:
In a very informative article on the AIDS challenge in the suburbs ["The Challenge AIDS Presents in the Suburbs," Nov. 4], the limitations of space severely curtailed the elaborate commentary I provided on physicians' responsibility and involvement with AIDS in Westchester County.
I would like to elaborate on the complex issues relative to this incapacitating illness and assure the public that Westchester physicians are already extensively involved in the management of these patients -- and point out the factors that limit their ability to further participate. 
 It is quite unfair to suggest, as did the executive director of AIDS Related Community Services, that the Westchester County Medical Society has "not taken the leadership role it could have."
First and foremost, neither that organization nor its executive director has ever approached the Westchester County Medical Society asking for assistance.
The Westchester County Medical Society is a representative organization for physicians, not an advocacy group. The Medical Society represents physicians in economic, legislative, peer review and regulatory affairs, and the Academy of Medicine of the Westchester County Medical Society is its educational arm, providing continued medical education and assuring the quality of medical programs for physicians in Westchester.
In fact it is the Westchester County Health Department (a component of the New York State Department of Health) that has the responsibility for health-care advocacy, particularly for the disadvantaged with health-care problems. In spite of this clear division of responsibility, the County Medical Society has been and remains open to all who seek its assistance on health care matters -- when they are asked and to the degree they can offer moral directions, because there is no public financing available to the Medical Society, as there is to the Health Department.
The involvement of the Medical Society and individual physicians, however, is curtailed by the vastness of medicine and the interests of physicians in a multitude of worthwhile pursuits. AIDS may be of paramount importance to some, but I dare say that heart disease, cancer, lupus, sickle cell disease, cystic fibrosis, Lyme disease and a thousand other afflictions demand and receive the attention of physicians. I don't believe on this basis alone, or on the relative prevalence of these diseases, that physicians in Westchester have not reasonably participated in the management of Westchester patients afflicted with AIDS and its related syndromes.
The real impediment to physicians' involvement with AIDS patients is an outrageous, cumbersome regulatory process imposed on physicians in New York State. It is based on the belief, held uniquely in New York State, that AIDS is not a communicable and sexually transmitted disease.
Long ago, New York State physicians asked that AIDS be treated in the same fashion that syphilis, tuberculosis, polio and all communicable diseases have traditionally been treated in this state. Recognizing AIDS as a communicable disease would have allowed physicians to directly test their patients in the privacy of their offices, allowed enhanced epidemiological assessment and permitted contact tracing.
Instead, only in New York State is elaborate counseling mandated before testing is begun, and physicians are virtually compelled to refer patients for testing to State Health Centers. The anonymity required and the time involved in the burdensome regulatory process imposed on physicians has discouraged physician involvement with these patients.
There are many other problems that may be limiting physicians in caring for AIDS patients. This is a new disease, involving sophisticated understanding of the immune system. Many physicians, as yet, may have had little experience or training in managing this disease and its associated severe complications. As physicians are further exposed and their knowledge increases, so will their involvement. (A similar experience is evident in the care of Lyme disease in Westchester County.)
Under the best of circumstances AIDS in its debilitating phases is an illness that requires frequent consultation by experienced hands. That is why there already exists an elaborate network of experienced clinicians, oftentimes in hospital-based clinics, managing these patients with elaborate referral conduits to and from the Westchester County Medical Center and community hospitals.
AIDS is economically disabling even to the private paying patient, and medical (or public) assistance is often needed. For such visits the practicing physician is allowed $7.50 ro $11 per office visit, in spite of the time and effort involved in the care of these patients. Yet Medicaid pays hospital emergency rooms and clinics $60 to $80 a visit. Is there any wonder why there might be some reluctance to treat an AIDS patient in the office?
There are other troubling aspects about the directions health care is taking these days. There are still some aspects of this disease that expose physicians to enormous risks. In the current era of demeaning the medical profession, of constant challenge, unrelenting and oppressive regulation and significant curtailment of the economic rewards of medical practice, physicians are beginning to adjust to the public perception that medicine is just a business. They are accepting their loss of public esteem by looking at their own self-interests, in terms of their availability and the degree to which they are willing to accept risks, especially those that jeopardize their families.
But while such baser instincts are still in the minority, the inflammatory threats that emanate from the Department of Health and the public do bridle physicians -- as in your article, "many doctors will not treat patients with AIDS, although they face legal complications for refusing AIDS patients."
Unfortunately, too many patients still don't know how to find or choose a personal physician. If you live in Westchester, the simplest way is to obtain the name of a primary-care physician from your local community hospital or from the County Medical Society's referral panel. Then call the doctor, indicate you are sick and ask for an appointment. Don't challenge the doctor with the admonition: "I have AIDS! Will you see me?"
Once seen by the doctor, be guided by his advice or referral and try not to impress him with your superior knowledge. Most physicians are caring, supportive and will undertake to do as good a job as they are capable of performing.
There may, in fact, be some reluctance to treat AIDS patients on the part of some physicians, unable to deal with what they believe to be this population's antisocial behavior, or the moral judgments of some physicians, or the economics of the situation; unable to comply with and cope with the regulatory process, or the unavailability and access to adequate backup resources. There may even be physicians who are unable to face the trauma of watching the young die -- while being relatively helpless in the process.
However, the major obstacle to reasonable access of AIDS patients to routine care is the failure of the state to recognize AIDS as a communicable and sexually transmitted disease with office-based testing of patients and the same protections for privacy that have always existed for every other communicable disease.
It is the cumbersome environment that exists in this state that has retarded earlier recognition and more office-based treatment of AIDS patients, and that is where the blame should be placed. Physicians in this county have and will continue to do more than their fair share, irrespective of the derogatory inferences suggesting otherwise.
 
 DR. SANFORD A. KAPLAN
President-Elect
 Westchester County
 Medical Society

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: HISTORY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (87%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); CANCER (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HISTORY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); LYME DISEASE (71%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (71%); LUPUS (71%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (61%); 

PERSON: WRIGHTSON, KAROLYN

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



787 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 31; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: For a Nickel, You Get History

 BODY:
The residents of Westchester may be shocked to learn that they are getting something for a nickel these days. And yet, that nickel could soon be eliminated or cut to a few cents ["Budget Plan Links Cuts to Fate of Sales Tax," Nov. 18].
Taxpayers in Westchester, which has one of the richest histories of any county in the United States, are pressing legislators to cut county spending. The County Board of Legislators is caught between the "rock" (mandated programs) and the "hard place" (popular services like the parks). 
 History could appear frivolous when weighed on the scale of human needs. No one freezes on a park bench when historical services are cut. No one gets sick or dies.
When historical services are cut, we take the incredible risk that we allow history to repeat itself. We lose our ability to connect with the past that has shaped us. And if we cannot make these connections, we lose our ability to plan for the future.
If we cannot teach students how their village's history relates to national and world history, we fail to place events on their most personal and meaningful level. History remains something far away and vague that happens on the beaches of Normandy, not in Peekskill or New Rochelle. World War II is something fought far away if you don't know that parachutes were made in Yonkers and airplanes in Tarrytown.
The county annually gives the Historical Society what amounts to a nickel per citizen, for collecting and saving the enormous history of the people, institutions and events of the past. The bulk of our budget comes from membership dues, corporate and personal donations and grants for specific projects.
So what do county taxpayers get for their historical nickel?
1. Two cents rents the only professionally staffed historical library in the county. It is open to the public free. This library, started in 1874, has by far the largest, most comprehensive collection of local history in Westchester, and it is maintained in a temperature- and humidity-controlled space (so the documents won't turn to dust before the next century when our grandchildren need to use them). The library is used each year by hundreds of researchers.
2. Two cents goes toward publishing The Westchester Historian, a quarterly journal now in its 66th year. We're one of the few historical societies that publishes a journal, and we do it because the printed word lasts long after an exhibition is dismantled or a program viewed. The Historian's articles and photographs tell the story of Westchester, such as the history of David's Island in New Rochelle and the almost lost industry of shad fishing on the Hudson. Almost every public library in Westchester subscribes to the journal.
3. The last cent means someone answers the telephone.
Three final points:
First, people sometimes say "Get your funds from the rich corporations." The reality is that a lot of Westchester corporations are not in the best of economic health. Some have merged. Some give only to health or homeless projects. Sadly, a growing number of Westchester corporations are now controlled by conglomerates whose top officials see no need to support Westchester.
Second, why do we need the Westchester County Historical Society when we have so many local historical societies? Because we do not duplicate what they do, and we do things they cannot do. In addition we cover the many localities that have no historical societies.
Third, what happens if we don't have that nickel? The residents of the future will suffer the most: if our doors are closed, future residents won't be able to use the records we have saved up until today.
If you think you are getting your nickel's worth, write or call your county legislator and ask him or her to continue supporting the Westchester County Historical Society.
And if you don't think you are getting your nickel's worth, write or call me and tell my why, because we are here to serve you: 2199 Saw Mill River Road, Elmsford, N.Y. 10523; 592-4323.
 
 KAROLYN WRIGHTSON
 Executive Director
 Westchester County
 Historical Society

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (51%); 

STATE: NORMANDY, FRANCE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS) HISTORY (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTIES (78%); SALES TAX (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LIBRARIES (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, SANFORD, A (DR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



788 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 11; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
The 'Super' Concept

BYLINE: Tom Wicker

 BODY:
Now that the Soviet Union has been deflated, and may even be breaking up, does the world still need the U.S. as a remaining superpower?
Can the U.S. still play that role? It's clear that maintaining superpower status is becoming more difficult -- nearly impossible -- for the United States. Even in the Middle East, allies are having to pick up much of the tab, allies necessarily have substantial control over U.S. actions, and an ultimate triumph is by no means assured. 
 At home, and no matter what U.S. policies are abroad, American society and the American economy are anything but super. Congress and the President have just demonstrated that they can't even manage the Federal budget; and Washington veterans will be surprised if the nation finally sees anything like the $460 billion in savings projected for the next five years.
Nor is the deficit the only economic problem. Billions are needed for investment -- in education, in infrastructure, in environmental cleanup, to restore the dwindling ability of states and cities to provide necessary public services. The shameful savings and loan scandal adds to the problem. A struggling and badly undercapitalized banking system limits the availability of needed credit for the present, and threatens economic collapse for the future.
The nation's energy vulnerability has been dramatized by the Middle East crisis; but the country seems paralyzed when confronted with the obvious need for greater energy independence. Research and development, once a prime U.S. strength, lag behind the efforts of Japan and Western Europe.
Even a President who denies being a "gloom and doom person" concedes that the economy is heading into a recession, and some economists think it may be the worst of the postwar era.
Compounding all this is the apparent reluctance of the voters -- who now are only about half or less of those eligible -- to approve any form of new taxes. Yet, after a decade of reduced taxes and inflated military spending, there may be no way to attack some of these problems without well-targeted taxes -- on gasoline, for instance, to reduce oil imports, help clear the air we breathe and produce needed new revenues for, say, education and infrastructure. Better such a tax, even if stiff, than the higher price now being paid at the pump, mostly to enrich foreign potentates.
Where is the superpower in all of this? And where is it to be found in other American ills -- crime, homelessness, inadequate child care, limited and costly medical care, a growing underclass? Even the military, upon which so much American wealth has been lavished in the last half-century, demonstrated crucial weaknesses in the great victories in Grenada and Panama, not to mention Vietnam.
If the most pressing U.S. problems therefore lie at home (not least the lack of political will to face them), playing the superpower role abroad is hard to defend. It also emphasizes the corollary: Is it necessary?
The need to match a second superpower, dollar for dollar, bomb for bomb, has disappeared. The need to organize, arm and lead the "free world" in deterring and/or defeating the Communist world no longer exists. The need to provide capital to what used to be the Communist world, as well as to Latin America and other friendly nations, can far better be met by Japanese and European financial interests -- who have, in most cases, as much at stake as the U.S.
In a multi-polar world, composed of at least Japan, Western Europe, China and the United States, as well as whatever power (including nuclear) remains to the Soviet Union, the need for any one of these to claim status as a lone superpower -- policeman and banker to the world, the dominant voice among all -- is hard to see. The ability for any one to achieve or maintain such status may be nonexistent.
Regional discord no doubt will continue to require United States military power to be projected occasionally, at least in the third world; few would wish such power to be Japanese, German or Chinese. But that's a different scale of power, for a far more limited purpose, than the vast military establishment once required for what looks more and more like the outmoded concept of the superpower.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (52%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



789 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: 'I Was 17, Poor and Joined the Marines'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "(Class) War in the Gulf" by John Kenneth Galbraith (Op-Ed, Nov. 7): What nonsense!
I was once 17 years old, poor, a high school dropout with no ambition or plans for my life, and I joined the Marines. I went to China and Japan, all at the Government's expense. I survived, I returned home, I found ambition, I went to school on the G.I. bill, bought a house under a G.I. mortgage, worked hard, raised a family, worked hard, went to college, worked hard and became a professional and, like Mr. Galbraith, am relatively well off, and I use gas.
All thanks to the United States Government for giving me a stake and a chance to improve my life so my children will not have to put themselves in harm's way because they are economically disadvantaged or have no family.
Seems to me those deployed in Saudi Arabia, who are there for those reasons and who survive, should take advantage of the many opportunities afforded by the Government as I did (isn't that what the Armed Forces recruiters tout?). Get educated, work hard, raise a proper family and maybe, just maybe, someday they will be able to keep their children out of harm's way, that is, if they choose to do so. That is what the system is all about, thank you.
 
BOB DOMINIANNI
Hauppauge, L.I., Nov. 8, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (78%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; PERSIAN GULF; IRAQ; KUWAIT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ARMED FORCES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); MILITARY RECRUITING (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); 

PERSON: GALBRAITH, JOHN KENNETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



790 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: The Editorial Notebook;
Legal Crack? No Sale

BYLINE: DAVID C. ANDERSON

 BODY:
Crack created a crisis of criminal justice -- and revived support for legalizing drugs. Aren't the violence and other public costs of keeping drugs illegal even worse than the harm caused by the drugs themselves?
That's the question posed by a corps of responsible people, as conservative as William F. Buckley, the columnist, and as liberal as Ira Glasser, head of the American Civil Liberties Union. 
 They base their case on economic arguments, on the violence created by making drugs illegal and the fearsome public expense of arresting, prosecuting and incarcerating drug violators. Yet their arguments pass far too quickly over a single practical question:
How would legal drug distribution work?
Promoters of legal drugs say that's just a detail to be worked out by bureaucrats once society accepts the concept. But in fact, the "detail" is a central concern.
It is also the subject of an article in The Public Interest by James Jacobs, a New York University law professor. By fleshing out what legalization would mean in practice, Mr. Jacobs says he hopes to advance the debate.
That he certainly does. The "simplest, yet boldest scenario," he asserts, is to lift most prohibitions on drugs so that they may be sold as freely as alcohol or tobacco. Some supporters of legalization say that would not result in much more drug abuse than occurs now. Mr. Jacobs says that's naive, given America's interest in chemicals that seem to solve problems or bring happiness.
Legitimate purveyors of drugs would naturally seek to expand their markets. Inevitably, they would spawn side businesses -- magazines to educate consumers about drugs, legal crack houses where addicts gather to socialize. The likely result would be a dramatic expansion of drug addiction. Any gains from reduced criminal justice costs might be powerfully offset by increases in addiction, child abuse and similar social ills.
Other questions multiply. How would the present machinery for regulating food and drugs deal with heroin and cocaine? Would they have to run the formidable gantlet of Federal testing and review designed to show that they are "safe and effective for a specified use"? That would defeat the main goal of legalization: making drugs quickly available so as to put the black market out of business.
Yet exempting hard drugs from such regulation would create an awkward anomaly -- crack and heroin would be sold like candy, while many cough medicines, diet pills and antibiotics would still need a prescription.
Exempting the hard drugs from regulation would also increase, perhaps prohibitively, the manufacturer's liability for suicides, overdoses and injuries traceable to drug abuse. It's unlikely producers would feel protected by the warning label Mr. Jacobs imagines: "Crack is a powerful psychoactive product that can lead to hyperactivity, extreme depression, and addiction . . . . Use by pregnant women causes addicted and damaged babies."
Not all those who support legal drugs favor selling them over the counter. Some suggest distribution through "state stores" run by government agencies. It's an idea that collapses on a moment's reflection.
If such agencies followed the example of those regulating gambling in Nevada and New Jersey, it's likely they would soon focus on maximizing drug sales to maximize government revenues. But if they behaved more responsibly, limiting access to drugs, that would defeat the goal of destroying black markets.
"Advocates of drug legalization," Mr. Jacobs writes, "in effect are urging the country to engage in a massive experiment" with extreme risks. Those who think it can work have a responsibility to explain how.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (57%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (57%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC DECRIMINALIZATION (91%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); COCAINE (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HEROIN (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (73%); SUICIDE (73%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); WRITERS (71%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); PRODUCT LABELING (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%); DIETING (61%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, DAVID C IRA GLASSER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



791 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Cold, Fragile, Invisible

 BODY:
Economists argue: Will there be a recession? Are we in one already? But there are many for whom the debate is irrelevant, even frivolous. They are the poor, the fragile elderly, the homeless, the children of poverty. They need not consult economic indicators; they have been suffering the pain of recession -- no, of depression -- for a long time.
Many New Yorkers have adjusted their eyes and minds to ignore the visible symptoms of poverty and need, people who live in the street. But their presence tells only a small part of the story. Many more are invisible. 
 They are stored away in welfare hotels or in shelters that offer neither the safety nor comfort the term misleadingly suggests. They are children without a proper home, without even a permanent school. They are families, described as the "working poor," desperately hanging on to their threadbare lodgings.
More than a year ago, the Bush Administration promised a new "war on poverty, homelessness and despair." Perhaps victory in that war will come -- someday. But for those who are jobless and hungry and for whom the ravages of winter's cold are a present threat, there is desperate need now.
Private charity cannot be a permanent, or even an adequate temporary substitute for sound and compassionate government policies. Yet quick and non-bureaucratic help is more urgently needed than ever. Hope for a better but distant future cannot house today's dispossessed, comfort the neglected young or the impoverished, forgotten old.
One way to help now is to contribute to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, which begins its 79th annual appeal today. Once again, the urgent call goes out, as young and old prepare for the holiday season. It is a call to conscience that begs for an answer of generosity and civic responsibility.
The fund, known as the Hundred Neediest Cases Fund when created in 1912, has long since outgrown such limited numbers. Today, it reaches thousands.
The fund passes every dollar to the neediest through seven private social service agencies. No money is kept back for administration or solicitation. Contributions are deductible for income-tax and estate purposes. Any amount is welcome. Checks should be payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and mailed to Post Office Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; EDITORIALS POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); FAMILY (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (66%); CHARITIES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



792 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: Experimenting at Harvard

BYLINE: By AIMEE L. STERN; Aimee L. Stern is a freelance writer based in Cambridge, Mass., who often reports on business topics.

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
ON a crisp fall day recently, the 80 students in an accounting class at the Harvard Business School listened intently as Mary Barth, an assistant professor, described how bonds are classified on a company's balance sheet. The students nodded their understanding. Except for one, Alexei Maximov, who frowned and whispered a question in heavily accented English to his neighbor. He was completely lost.
With his faded blue jeans, scruffy loafers and harried, somewhat frantic expression, Mr. Maximov looks like any other first-year student at the school. 
 What sets Mr. Maximov apart is that he is one of four Soviet students in the class of 1992, the first Soviet group to pursue M.B.A.'s at Harvard and perhaps at any American business school. And aside from having problems with English, Mr. Maximov and his countrymen are struggling, like the Soviet Union itself is, to learn how to talk business in what amounts to a cram course in capitalism.
For Mr. Maximov, at least, the process already seems to be paying off. "Step by step, I feel as though I'm getting somewhere," said the 31-year-old student, who back home is a research associate at the Soviet Institute of Foreign Economic Relations.
The experimental Harvard program comes at a time of great change and confusion in the Soviet Union as the Kremlin gropes for ways to shift to a market economy and to find a new generation of managers to run its enterprises.
At home, students can now pursue M.B.A.'s for the first time at the Russian-American University, an independent school that opened this fall in classrooms at Moscow State University.
The program here is an outgrowth of a joint research project involving Paul R. Lawrence, a professor of organizational behavior at the business school, and the Soviet Institute of Foreign Economic Relations. Professor Lawrence traveled extensively through the Soviet Union to gather material for his book "Behind the Factory Walls."
When officials at the institute suggested that the business school admit Soviet students, Professor Lawrence helped to win backing for the idea. The business school "tends to be on the cutting edge," he said. "When the political situation changed, it became a natural for us." The program is jointly financed by the Soviet Government and Harvard.
THE first class of Soviet students was selected from a pool of approximately 100 applicants. The four men who made the grade passed a comprehensive English exam and then faced a battery of interviews with Harvard alumni; executives of Zyl, a Soviet truck manufacturer that had been studied by Professor Lawrence; staff from the foreign relations institute, and the business school's director of admissions, Laura Fisher.
The Soviet hopefuls also had to complete the business school's exhaustive 10-page application form.
In the Soviet Union, educational applications only request basic information like date and place of birth. By contrast, the Harvard Business School asks applicants to describe which character traits they wish to change or improve and to analyze an "ethical dilemma" they have experienced first-hand.
One of the four successful applicants, Alexei Kolesnikov, a 27-year-old senior analyst at the U.S.S.R. Chamber of Commerce and Industry, spent two months sweating over his papers. His early drafts contained short, factual answers touting his qualifications. After reading the questions and his replies countless times, Mr. Kolesnikov finally decided Harvard wanted to him to think, not just regurgitate facts. His final draft was calculated and intellectual, written as he thought an American would respond.
Besides Mr. Kolesnikov and Mr. Maximov, those accepted were Joseph Bakaleynick, 38, deputy director general of the Vladimir Tractor Works, and Besik Sikharulidze, 25, who two years ago helped found the Science and Engineering Development Center in Tbilisi, Georgia. All of the men brought their wives and children to the United States for the two-year program.
To limit the students' culture shock and help them develop a grounding in American business, they were each assigned to an internship with an American corporation for at least six months, beginning last January. The companies, which were suggested by business school alumni, amounted to something of a cross-section of American industry: S. C. Johnson & Son Inc. of Racine, Wis., the maker of household products; Johnson & Johnson, the baby care and pharmaceutical company based in New Brunswick, N.J.; Braxton Associates of Boston, a strategic consulting division of Deloitte & Touche, and Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc. of Des Moines, which develops computer systems. [See box.]
With capitalistic work experience under their belts, the Soviet students were ready to confront the rigors of Harvard's famed case-study method of business training. The case studies present actual business problems for which the students devise potential solutions. First-year students read an 12 to 15 cases each week.
THREE of the four Soviet students opted to attend a six-week summer course designed to introduce foreigners to the case-study method. Some business scholars criticize the case method as archaic, but the Soviet students say it offers snapshots of how American companies operate in their industries. To them, it is a good way to master how American managers think.
The Soviet students are still struggling with the dynamics of a free market system, however. Each is assigned to a study group which tries to address case questions before class. But for the visiting students, some of the questions contain an extra issue or two to puzzle out.
When a management communications class discussed the leak of a confidential company memo to a newspaper, for example, Mr. Sikharulidze had trouble sorting out the legal and ethical ramifications for all the concerned parties. After all, Mr. Sikharulidze said, newspapers in the Soviet Union don't exactly chase that kind of story.
"When you come from a culture that has been isolated from the rest of the world for many years, you're going to look at things differently," he said. "It's a terrific experience for me. After every class I've learned something new."
The business school works hard at assimilating foreign students into its culture, sponsoring numerous social and intramural sporting events. This year, 16 percent of the 800-member entering class is from outside the United States. The foreigners are split up and assigned to different sections of the class to speed the assimilation.
Mr. Kolesnikov says the integrated curriculum at Harvard helps him understand how different pieces of American business fit together. For instance, he studied inventory control systems in both his finance and marketing classes. In Soviet professional schools, he said, departments operate as fiefs and faculty rarely speak to their peers in other departments, much less plan classes together.
SOME business practices do transcend cultural barriers, the Soviet students have found. Mr. Bakaleynick, for instance, recently read a case study on just-in-time inventory control systems. Mr. Bakaleynick, who holds a Ph.D. in economics from Moscow State University, employed the same system as a top manager at the Vladimir Tractor Works, but referred to it by another name.
Next summer, the four students plan to get another dose of work experience as interns. And after their second year at Harvard, they all plan to return home, where they expect to work in international trade.
"I see myself as a bridge between different cultures because after school is over, I will know how both sides feel," said Mr. Maximov.
"My main role," added Mr. Kolesnikov, "is to bring a real knowledge of the American market system to Soviet business. It's easy to say we'll adopt cost accounting, but if no one knows what it really means, how can it be done?"
For now, though, the Soviet students are still hitting the books.
"Not all my questions are answered," Mr. Maximov said, "but I expect they will be by the end of the second year."
 
 
 
THE SIX-MONTH IMMERSION
 BEFORE starting classes this fall, the first Soviet students to attend the Harvard Business School worked for at least six months at a variety of companies in the Northeast and Middle West.
The internships gave the students some practical lessons in American capitalism as well as an eye-opening introduction to a very alien culture.
Coming from a country where shortages and endless lines are the norm, the Soviets were astounded by American stores and the sheer variety of merchandise they sold.
"People in the U.S. spend a lot of time thinking about money and how to spend it," said Alexei Maximov, who worked the first half of the year in Racine, Wis., at S. C. Johnson & Son Inc., the maker of household products. "I always just went to the store and bought something."
Indeed, for the Soviets, consumer marketing was a completely foreign element of the manufacturing process. Few Soviet companies, after all, have salespeople and once a truckload of goods leaves a factory, management rarely frets over its fate.
To learn about marketing, Mr. Maximov attended product development meetings, went on field trips and observed the development of a new advertising campaign for Pledge, the furniture cleaner. In the evenings, he paced the aisles of Racine grocery stores, trying to figure out what purposes all the different products served.
The interns were also struck by the diligence of American employees. In the Soviet Union, workers are notoriously lackadaisical, often working half days or failing to show up at all. There is little incentive to improve because performance usually does not translate into higher salaries and workers are rarely fired.
Alexei Kolesnikov, who spent his internship at Johnson & Johnson in New Brunswick, N.J., said he was impressed with "how hard the Americans worked."
He also said that it is much easier for American managers to confer with their superiors.
"If you don't know the top guy at a Soviet company when you start working, you'll never get to know him," Mr. Kolesnikov said. "There's an unofficial hierarchy which says you can only write a memo to the person one level above you. Other memos are signed by whoever is the boss and he takes credit for them."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 1990, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Nov. 25 about Soviet students at the Harvard Business School reversed the identities of two students. Besik Sikharulidze was at the right and Aleksei Kolesnikov at the center.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soviet students, left to right, Alexei Maximov, Besik Sikharulidze and Alexei Kolesnikov. (Jim Bourg for The New York Times); Joseph Bakaleynick, also a Harvard business student. (Alec Lessin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (56%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; FOREIGN STUDENTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); TRENDS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STERN, AIMEE L

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



793 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

 	 	 	 	INDEXES OF HOUSING COSTS N.Y.-Northeast N.J. area*	 	 	 			% change from % change from	 		Oct.	Sept.	Oct. 89		 	 	 	Rents	 163.5	 0.1	 7.9	Homeowner's costs	166.2	 0.0	 5.3	Fuel and utilities	104.9	 -0.3	 7.0	Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics	 	 	 		 	 	 		 	 	 	*Five counties of New York City plus Nassau, Suffolk,		 	 	 		 	 	 	Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Bergen,		 	 	 	Essex, Morris, Union, Hudson, Middlesex, Somerset and Passaic.		 	 	 	Indexes: 1982-84=100	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	 10.22	10.32	10.01	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.15	8.22	 8.67	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	 10.02	10.13	 9.82	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	7.93	7.95	 8.47	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	 10.12	10.20	 9.92	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.08	8.11	 8.65	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	 10.42	10.52	10.42	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.39	8.47	 8.39		 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	1-yr. Treasury security	7.30	7.35	 7.71	National Mortgage Contract Rate	9.67	9.70	 9.86	
 
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
 
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; PRICES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (91%); STATISTICS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1991



794 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 29; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: POP MUSIC;
In Havana, Where They Really Dance To the Music

BYLINE: By NED SUBLETTE; Ned Sublette, a composer and band leader, is a field producer for "Afropop Worldwide" on National Public Radio. He is setting up an American-Cuban cultural exchange program for Dance Theater Workshop in New York.

DATELINE: HAVANA

 BODY:
La Tropical is the only dance hall in Havana that's open regularly. It's a big, open-air beer garden that has seen decades of service. The legendary singer Benny More used to play here, and the dance band Conjunto Casino has been here plenty. On this night, as Conjunto Casino finishes its set, the club is jumping, packed with maybe 1,500 people.
Times are hard in Cuba, and getting harder. Manufactured goods are scarce, right down to matches. Billboards scream "Socialismo o Muerte!" ("Socialism or Death!"). Many items can be bought with only United States dollars, possession of which is illegal for Cubans. But among the things that can be bought with Cuban pesos are beer (which they do run out of), rum (which they don't seem to run out of) and music. It costs a peso (about 16 cents at the black-market exchange rate) to get into La Tropical, where you can hear some of the best dance bands in the world. 
 Conjunto Casino was formed in 1940, before its present lead singer was born, before the music they play was called salsa. The young audience mostly ignores the band. Then Irakere takes the stage. Known outside Cuba as a jazz band, Irakere can also play hard-charging music, and soon the stage is overrun with dancers. The teen-age girls are doing that dance, the one they call the pigue, rotating their hips wide and fast while moving their arms back and forth high above their heads, meanwhile sticking out their tongues and working their entire bodies up and down.
Most of this audience is black; indeed, at the core of Cuban music is African culture. Various African religions, brought to Cuba from the Yoruba, Congo, Dahomeyan and Ejagham civilizations, are widely practiced. And in the singing and drumming of religious ritual is a mother lode of rhythmic polyphony that permeates Cuban music at all levels.
While North American songs are popular -- people in Havana can tune to Miami radio, and late at night Cuban television runs a few current videos -- home-grown dance bands rule. A number of these bands go back to well before the revolution (one poster spotted recently advertised a band "founded in 1882"), and new ones are started all the time. The groups are large; 14 pieces is not unusual. Many bands are on salary with state-affiliated organizations, and the good ones rehearse every day, producing near-telepathic ensembles.
It would be only natural for Cuban dance bands to join in the world-beat explosion that has introduced the likes of Martinho da Vila of Brazil and Baba Maal of Senegal to listeners in the United States. But North Americans have only limited access to their neighbor's music.
Better-known Cuban bands play in Canada, Latin America, Europe and Japan, but not in the United States (a 1985 executive order prohibits granting visas to employees of the Cuban Government, which the State Department construes to include musicians). It's also not easy to find recordings of Cuban music. Until August 1988, it was illegal to import Cuban records; now they are allowed in as informational materials, and American labels can release already-produced Cuban recordings. But American companies may not finance recording projects, which would violate the Trading With the Enemy Act of 1917. Most post-1959 Cuban recordings on sale in the United States are imported from third countries or licensed through European intermediaries.
Of the bands Cubans are listening to, some, like Los Van Van and Orquesta Reve, have records on sale abroad; but most, like N. G. La Banda and Dan Den, haven't been heard in the United States.
Los Van Van, the most popular band in Cuba by almost any measure, was formed in 1969 but has released only one album in the United States: 1989's "Songo" (Island/Mango 9825; all three formats), a collection of their 80's hits but rerecorded in Paris. Led by the bassist-composer Juan Formell and powered by the percussionist Jose Luis (Changuito) Quintana, Los Van Van provided a point of departure for subsequent Cuban bands. By removing the bongo and the campana (the heavy cowbell usually played by the bongo player) and adding electric instruments to the typical charanga flute-and-violins orchestra, Los Van Van changed the timbre of Cuban records.
Their style, which they call songo (partly to differentiate it from salsa), is a marvelous balance of simplicity and complexity. They have retained the clave, the two-bar rhythm that is the spine of Cuban music, but have articulated it in such a way that the most leaden dancer can easily find the beat. Over the years the sound of Los Van Van has evolved. The present-day group includes an electronic wind instrument, two keyboard synthesizers and electronic percussion. But the group is still a charanga orchestra, with its original three violinists and flutist, plus three trombonists.
Los Van Van's best-known tune, "Muevete" ("Move"), was popularized outside of Cuba by Ruben Blades, who heard the song while sharing concert bills with the band in Europe; after writing new (and more political) lyrics, he scored a hit in 1985. Van Van's original 1984 recording, "Anda Ven y Muevete," is available in the United States on the compilation "Sabroso! Havana Hits" (Virgin/Earthworks 91312; all three formats), with a later version on "Songo." Van Van, which was dropped by Island Records after one album, is currently without label affiliation outside of Cuba.
"La Explosion del Momento!" (Virgin/ Real World 91304; all three formats), a compilation of three albums by Orquesta Reve, was released in 1989 and is easily available in the United States. Elio Reve's typical form is the changui, a fast-paced cousin of the son (the blend of African beat and Spanish song style that flowered in eastern Cuba in the early 1900's). But Mr. Reve's music also includes rumba, merengue, the Afro-Haitian drumming of eastern Cuba and African religious rhythms. The singers' high nasal style (known as "old woman's voice") was fashionable in the 20's; the electric bass plays with a fat, modern-sounding slap-and-pop. Live, the band's montunos, in which a chorus repeats a refrain while a soloist improvises, are extended to trance-inducing lengths.
Mr. Reve, who formed his orchestra in 1956, can count some of Cuba's top band leaders among his band's alumni, including Mr. Formell of Los Van Van. Now in his 60's, Mr. Reve still plays to large audiences of young people. When two prominent members of his band left to form the group Dan Den, he scouted the next generation of talent and continued unperturbed. "Suave Suave," his first hit with the new lineup, includes the lyrics: "I'm repeating the talk/ The street-corner talk/ They say la Reve/ That la Reve went to ruin/ I tell you, people/It was all a lie."
A band's street-corner reputation is everything in Cuba, where songs become popular long before a record goes on sale. The public learns the tunes from seeing bands live and on television. During the many months' lag between recording and pressing (a year or more is not uncommon), unreleased albums circulate informally, copied from cassette to cassette and heard blasting from windows and construction sites all over Havana. Radio stations play specially supplied copies.
When an album finally appears on the market, a group's popularity can be gauged not by how many copies it sells, but by how long it takes to sell out. There are rarely second pressings, so a popular album is a collector's item almost from the moment it's released.
There were long lines in front of the record store in downtown Havana last July when two eagerly awaited albums were released the same week -- the debut album by Dan Den, a sort of breakaway Orquesta Reve but funkier and more electronic, and "En la Calle," from N. G. la Banda, the most popular of the newer bands. N. G. (for Nueva Generacion, or New Generation) is led by Jose Luis Cortes, a former member of both Irakere and Los Van Van. Like Irakere, N. G. has a virtuosic horn section and aims at a dual dance-band and concert-stage identity. "La Expresividad" was probably 1990's biggest hit on Havana's streets. A Cubanized bomba with Van Van-style electronic percussion, it uses an old trick -- a long, catchy break in which each of Havana's barrios receives a salute in verse.
There are many other bands in Cuba. Import-watchers might look for albums by La Original de Manzanillo, Son 14 and Adalberto Alvarez y Su Son. And the spectrum of Cuban music runs from African- and Spanish-based traditional music to jazz, rock and experimental. Yet even when the influences come from outside, the music still sounds characteristically Cuban.
"Ancestros," a 1987 album by the group Sintesis, features scrupulously authentic performances of Yoruba and Arara ritual songs with the percussion stripped away and replaced by synthesizer-heavy pop instrumentation. Another album, set for release in Cuba in 1991, is a collaboration between a pop group, Mezcla, and Lazaro Ross, a master singer of Yoruba music. These two albums, by groups whose names mean "synthesis" and "mix," respectively, provide a refreshing counterpart to stateside pop musicians' attempts at cultural fusion. There are reports they will be released in Germany next year and may then be available in the United States at least as imports.
But Cuban musicians, who like their countrymen face tense conditions economically and politically, are expressing themselves with beauty and dignity -- whether North Americans hear it or not.
 
 
WHERE TO FIND CUBAN RECORDS
 The Center for Cuban Studies, 124 West 23d Street in Manhattan (212-242-0559), is a nonprofit research center and library that sells records and videos of Cuban music.
Elsewhere in Manhattan, the Times Square Record Mart (212-840-0580), in the Times Square subway station near the BMT line, has a good selection of Cuban music.
Many large record stores also carry some Cuban titles in their world-beat sections.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pedro Calvo, lead singer of Los Van Van, Cuba's most popular dance band (Adrian Boot/Mango, Antilles Records )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); SENEGAL (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA

SUBJECT: MUSIC SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); DANCERS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); RELIGION (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (56%); 

PERSON: SUBLETTE, NED

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



795 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Focus: Western North Carolina;
Homes Bloom in Piney Mountain Country

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

 BODY:
GROWING up on a farm in the western North Carolina mountain community of Whittier (pop. 1,000), Bill Gibson often felt isolated from the world and considered it a treat to meet someone new. Now, Mr. Gibson, who is 42 years old, feels fortunate to see someone he knows.
Newcomers are moving to western North Carolina at such a pace that people around there are chary of advertising the area's strengths for fear of attracting more. Real estate brokers attribute the growth to a greater awareness of the low cost of living and the four distinct -- but mild -- seasons. 
 In the last five years, thousands of primary and secondary homes, ranging from simple trailers to million-dollar mansions, have been built in the piney woods and on the mountainsides west of Asheville, 35 miles south of Whittier.
And there is no evidence that the economic troubles roiling real estate markets in many parts of the nation have hurt the market in that section of North Carolina.
In Flat Rock, about 50 miles south of Whittier, a 150-acre subdivision built on land that once was part of a large estate is a year ahead of its sales schedule.
In Hendersonville, Flat Rock's neighbor, the golf-course architect Tom Fazio is building a course-side golf community with lots selling in the $100,000 range.
In Tryon, 10 miles south of Flat Rock on the South Carolina's border, an upscale condominium project in what is known as Hunting Country, an area of horse farms and rolling hills, is finishing its last group of $139,000 to $400,000 units after a seven-year development schedule.
"One can pick a point along any major artery and the preponderance of license plates are out-of-state and most are from Florida," said Mr. Gibson, director of the Regional Council of Governments in Whittier, which provides planning services to local governments in the seven westernmost counties of the state. "In some counties, most property tax bills are mailed out of state.'
Mike Orr, a real estate agent in Hendersonville, said the reason for the growth is simple.
"People found out we have four distinct seasons and none of them are very harsh so they're starting to live here year-round," he said. "Florida is too hot in the summer."
Summer temperatures average about 72, with considerably less humidity than Florida's, and in winter they average about 39, with much less snow than New England gets.
Newcomers, Mr. Orr said, especially retirees, also like the low property taxes and the growing cultural activities. In Hendersonville, property taxes on a $100,000 house, with three bedrooms and a half-acre lot, are roughly $450 a year.
In addition, the community has a 70-member symphony orchestra made up of retired musicians. Nearby Flat Rock is the location of the State Theater of North Carolina, a summer theater of some renown.
In Mr. Gibson's area, the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the most visited of all national parks, Cherokee National Forest and Pisgah National Forest cover thousands of acres of preserved wilderness.
The growing construction of homes has left western North Carolina with a recession-proof economy, said Mr. Gibson. Those who are building -- practically all out-of-staters -- are either wealthy families building second homes or retirees who want to live in the region year-round.
 Yet, Mr. Gibson said, he sees a growing resentment among some residents, particularly among young people and even among those who make their living directly from second-home construction or from the tourist industry.
 Communities are grappling with over-burdened water and sewer systems, two-lane roads too narrow for heavy traffic and not enough enforcement by the state of its sedimentation pollution law, said Mr. Gibson.
"HOMES go up the hillside and the dirt comes washing down," he said.
He does not advocate halting development, but he said he wants to make sure it is compatible with the scenic beauty of the state, which is the location of Mount Mitchell, at 6,684 feet above sea level the tallest mountain east of the Rockies.
The state has moved to control some development, making it illegal to build tall buildings along the ridgeline of mountains. The law was passed a few years ago after public outcry over a 10-story condominium-hotel built on the ridgeline of Sugarloaf Mountain at Boone.
The state has also moved to entice some development. State and local officials see tourism and second-home development as a good primary industry for the historically poor area. But one obstacle has been the levels of three major western North Carolina lakes, which are controlled by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
Studies conducted for North Carolina suggest that the state loses $13.6 million a year in tourism because the T.V.A. drains water from the lakes early in the summer season and keeps the levels low until late fall. The state, in turn, has asked for a shorter drawdown term. The request is now under negotiation.
The drawdown produces electricity and makes room for any flooding that should occur with the spring thaw.
"They are making problems worse for an economically disadvantaged area of North Carolina," said John Morris, director of the water resources division of state government. "We feel they should work for the betterment of all the Tennessee River basin."
T.V.A., the largest utility in the nation, was founded during the first 100 days of Franklin D. Roosevelt's Administration in the throes of the Depression. The three-member commission appointed to oversee the authority was to expand hydroelectric generation, develop fertilizer and control soil erosion in the vast and poor Tennessee River Valley.
In those days, little thought was given to fostering recreational uses of the lakes built by T.V.A. But now recreation is seen as the best hope for bolstering the economy of the area surrounding Lake Fontana and Lake Chatuge, which in late summer look as low as a tidal basin at low tide.
SOME areas of Lake Fontana get so low that boats cannot be launched and docks are left high and dry.
"It begins to look like a little bit of water at the bottom of a canyon," said Mr. Morris, who added that the power produced by the water drawn from the North Carolina lakes mostly goes to people in Tennessee and Georgia.
"They are taking benefits away from us to serve another area," he said. "Plus other agencies operate under policies where they have to provide recreational benefits. It is just considered a cost of doing business."
The authority says it would cost millions to replace the power generated by hydroelectric plants with power produced at fossil fuel plants.
Earlier this year, T.V.A. undertook a study of North Carolina's concerns, among other things. One of its recommendations is to start the drawdown later in the year, but not as late as North Carolina would have it.
A decision is expected by the end of the year.
Mr. Gibson said the issue has been an emotional one for the people of his area; they want the levels kept high for their own use but do not necessarily like the idea of encouraging tourism and resort development.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A condominium project in Tryon, N.C., set in midst of rolling hills and horse farms. A condominium project in Tryon, N.C., set in midst of rolling hills and horse farms. (Lyn Riddle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (77%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH CAROLINA

SUBJECT: HOUSING GOLF (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (85%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); COST OF LIVING (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (65%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); MUSIC (60%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



796 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 24; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: A Business Seminar On Investment in Israel

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
DESPITE the heightened tensions in the Middle East, business opportunities for American companies trading with Israel appear strong, said speakers at a recent trade seminar here for county business people.
Several speakers noted the arrival over the last year of 100,000 Soviet immigrants to Israel, with an additional 250,000 expected over the next two years. 
 "By the end of the decade, that means that we will have a 25 percent increase in our population," said Shimon Bar-Tzill, an officer of Bank Leumi Trust Company, and one of the speakers. "That would compare with an increase of 60 million in United States population. And what it signifies is rapid growth for the Israeli economy."
The seminar, held at the White Plains Hotel this month, was sponsored by the County Office of Economic Development, the World Trade Club of Westchester and the U.S.-Israel Economic Forum.
 
200,000 New Jobs Needed
 Because Israel is on the edge of great economic growth, Mr. Bar-Tzill said, it offers unusual investment opportunities for United States participation. "We will need, for instance, 200,000 new jobs," he said. "Sixty percent of the emigres arrived highly trained for work in sophisticated industries, but they need to be retrained in Western ways of doing things."
Leon Fassler, vice president of Kings Electronics in Tuckahoe, a company that has been doing business in Israel for several decades, discussed the practicalities and difficulties of trading with Israel.
"It's not easy to do business in Israel, but it's not impossible, either," Mr. Fassler said. "Israel is a small market, but an intense one. There is great enthusiasm there to import products, services and technology."
Stressing that he believed the most important thing for would-be exporters is to be careful in selecting a firm to represent them, Mr. Fassler said: "Be sure your rep firm is large enough or broadly based enough to do your job for you. Israel is a very small country and everyone involved in the same marketplace knows everyone else."
The bulk of his company's exports to Israel goes to the military and government market, said Mr. Fassler, who added that "we find the commercial market tougher."
 
The Value of Co-Production
 Edward J. Borroazzo, president of Loral International in Yonkers, a division of the Loral Corporation, said his firm had received orders from Israel amounting to $300 million to $400 million in the last 15 years, but he stressed that co-production projects with Israel were part of Loral's involvement.
Forty-five percent of the financing for Loral from the United States Defense Security Assistance Agency, for example, was spent in Israel.
"The Loral-Israeli connection is a two-way street," Mr. Borroazzo said. "Our experience with Israeli industry has been very good. The work ethic, for example, is exceptional in Israel, and there is a wide breadth of technology there. But market penetration would not have been achievable without a transfer back and forth of technology."
Mr. Borroazzo said Israeli companies had the technology but might lack the manufacturing resources. "Our policy is to share equally in the development costs and production benefits," he said. "Our efforts to sell products through joint ventures with Israeli industry have been successful."
 
Expanding in the Defense Market
 Geotek Industries is a bi-national company with headquarters, finance and marketing divisions in the United States, and product design and development in Israel. Yoram Orom, president of Jerico Precision in Yonkers, part of the Geotek Defense Group, said a base in the United States was considered essential for his company's growth.
The company sells about 60 percent of its products to the defense market and needed to expand outside Israel, Mr. Orom said. "We couldn't push beyond the $5 million to $6 million sales figures because the Israeli market is too small."
So the company bought American companies on the edge of bankruptcy, with the aim of upgrading them. Jericho Precision in Yonkers, for example, which was acquired by Geotek in 1989, had suffered a $2 million operating loss.
"We brought in new management and reorganized the company," Mr. Orom said. "This year, Jerico should have sales of $18 million. Half our products are now sold in Israel, the other half in the United States. The research and development is conducted in Israel; production and marketing are done in both places."
 
Penetrating the Electronic Market
 The United States is the biggest market for welding electronic products used for construction, said Avi Mazori, president of Zika Electrode Works in Israel, the largest welding factory in the Middle East. Eight years ago he opened a warehouse and distribution network in the United States to penetrate the large American market.
"We realized immediately that to be successful we had to understand the U.S. customers' needs," Mr. Mazori said. "American customers want a lot of service and we know we have to provide it if we want to compete with the Taiwanese, the Chinese and everyone else who is supplying this market. And that, I think, is basically the most important factor in successful export: understanding the local market."
No other country tries so hard to promote trade as Israel, said David C. Williams, a lawyer who spoke about the free-trade agreement between the United States and Israel.
"Although the flow of goods between the two countries has tripled since the Free Trade Act went into effect in 1985," he said, "with Israelis selling high-tech products to the U.S. market, the U.S. consumer products exported to Israel have not fared as well as our commercial products because they are competing with European exports."
 
A Familiar Legal System
 But the Israeli legal system, which is based on the British system, makes it fairly easy for American companies to set up corporations in Israel, Mr. Williams said.
The "brain power" emanating from members of a large, well-educated and trained work force was referred to several times during the seminar as Israel's No. 1 export product.
"Because of our skilled work force, we expect our high-tech exports to increase by 20 percent by 1995," said Mr. Bar-Tzill.
Roni Hefetz, executive vice president of CI Systems in Hawthorne, the American branch of an Israeli engineering company, said the company began solely as a research and development organization.
 
Solving Complex Problems
 "In Israel, we were selling solutions to complex problems and we had a rep here," Mr. Hefetz said. "But some months ago we decided to develop our own products, mainly night vision devices that are used in defense projects. I was sent here with $5,000 to open an office and, hopefully, raise capital. I managed to raise $2.5 million from private investors and so the company was launched."
Now, he said, customers in other, non-defense markets "are asking us to design systems for them."
"There are many opportunities for Israeli-American companies to be successful when you use the special advantage that exists in each country," Mr. Hefetz said.
Another speaker, Asher Fensterheim, a lawyer with offices in Manhattan and White Plains, said: "Israel may get investment capital fairly easily because many Americans are concerned that Israel remain a successful Jewish state. It's an emotional thing, but it's still advisable to get professional business advice before you go to Israel."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Businessmen at a trade seminar in White Plains about business opportunities for American companies in Israel.
(Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUMI (TASE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (81%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LORAL CORP (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE CLUB OF WESTCHESTER; US-ISRAEL ECONOMIC FORUM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CORPORATIONS CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); JOB CREATION (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1990



797 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Mild Seasons And Low Taxes Bolster Market

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

DATELINE: WHITTIER, N.C.

 BODY:
Growing up on a farm in this western North Carolina mountain community (pop. 1,000) Bill Gibson often felt isolated from the world and considered it a treat to meet someone new. Now, Mr. Gibson, who is 42 years old, feels fortunate to see someone he knows.
Newcomers are moving to western North Carolina at such a pace that people around here warn each other against advertising the area's strengths for fear of attracting more. Real estate brokers attribute the growth to a greater awareness of the low cost of living and the four distinct -- but mild -- seasons.
 
 In the last five years, thousands of primary and secondary homes, ranging from simple trailers to million-dollar mansions, have been built in the piney woods and on the mountainsides west of Asheville, 35 miles south of here.
And there is no evidence that the economic troubles roiling real estate markets in many parts of the nation have hurt the market in this section of North Carolina.
In Flat Rock, about 50 miles south of here, a 150-acre subdivision built on land that once was part of a large estate is a year ahead of its sales schedule.
In Hendersonville, Flat Rock's neighbor, the golf-course architect Tom Fazio is building a course-side golf community with lots selling in the $100,000 range.
In Tryon, 10 miles south of Flat Rock on the South Carolina's border, an upscale condominium project in what is known as Hunting Country, an area of horse farms and rolling hills, is finishing its last group of $139,000 to $400,000 units after a seven-year development schedule.
"One can pick a point along any major artery and the preponderance of license plates are out-of-state and most are from Florida," said Mr. Gibson, who is the director of the Regional Council of Governments here, which provides planning services to local governments in the seven westernmost counties of North Carolina.
"In some counties," he added, "most property tax bills are mailed out of state.'
Mike Orr, a real estate agent in Hendersonville, said the reason for the growth is simple.
"People found out we have four distinct seasons and none of them are very harsh so they're starting to live here year-round," he said. "Florida is too hot in the summer."
Summer temperatures average about 72, with considerably less humidity than there is in Florida, and winter temperatures average about 39, with much less snow than there is in New England.
Newcomers, Mr. Orr said, especially retirees, also like the low property taxes and the growing cultural activities. In Hendersonville, property taxes on a $100,000 house, with three bedrooms and a half-acre lot, are roughly $450 a year.
In addition, the community has a 70-member symphony orchestra made up of retired musicians. Nearby Flat Rock is the location of the State Theater of North Carolina, a summer theater of some renown.
In Mr. Gibson's area, the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, the most visited of all national parks, Cherokee National Forest and Pisgah National Forest cover thousands of acres of preserved wilderness.
The growing construction of homes has left western North Carolina with a recession-proof economy, said Mr. Gibson. Those who are building -- practically all out-of-staters -- are either wealthy families building second homes or retirees who want to live in this region year-round..
 Yet, Mr. Gibson said, he sees a growing resentment among some residents, particularly among young people and even among those who make their living directly from second-home construction or from the tourist industry.
 Communities are grappling with over-burdened water and sewer systems, two-lane roads too narrow for heavy traffic and not enough enforcement by the state of its sedimentation pollution law, said Mr. Gibson.
"Homes go up the hillside and the dirt comes washing down," he said.
He does not advocate halting development, but he said he wants to make sure it is compatible with the scenic beauty of the state, which is the location of Mount Mitchell, at 6,684 feet above sea level the tallest mountain east of the Rockies.
The state has moved to control some development, making it illegal to build tall buildings along the ridgeline of mountains. The law was passed a few years ago after public outcry over a 10-story condominium-hotel built on the ridgeline of Sugarloaf Mountain at Boone.
The state has also moved to entice some development. State and local officials see tourism and second-home development as a good primary industry for this historically poor area. But one obstacle has been the levels of three major western North Carolina lakes, which are controlled by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
Studies conducted for North Carolina suggest that the state loses $13.6 million a year in tourism because the T.V.A. drains water from the lakes early in the summer season and keeps the levels low until late fall. The state, in turn, has asked for a shorter drawdown term. The request is now under negotiation.
The drawdown produces electricity and makes room for any flooding that should occur with the spring thaw.
"They are making problems worse for an economically disadvantaged area of North Carolina," said John Morris, director of the water resources division of state government. "We feel they should work for the betterment of all the Tennessee River basin."
T.V.A., the largest utility in the nation, was founded during the first 100 days of Franklin D. Roosevelt's Administration in the throes of the Depression. The three-member commission appointed to oversee the authority was to expand hydroelectric generation, develop fertilizer and control soil erosion in the vast and poor Tennessee River Valley.
In those days, little thought was given to fostering recreational uses of the lakes built by T.V.A.
But now recreation is seen as the best hope for bolstering the economy of the area surrounding Lake Fontana and Lake Chatuge, which in late summer look as low as a tidal basin at low tide.
Some areas of Lake Fontana get so low, boats cannot be launched and docks are left high and dry.
"It begins to look like a little bit of water at the bottom of a canyon," said Mr. Morris, who added that the power produced by the water drawn from the North Carolina lakes mostly goes to people in Tennessee and Georgia.
"They are taking benefits away from us to serve another area," he said. "Plus other agencies operate under policies where they have to provide recreational benefits. It is just considered a cost of doing business."
The authority says it would cost millions to replace the power generated by hydroelectric plants with power produced at fossil fuel plants.
Earlier this year, T.V.A. undertook a study of North Carolina's concerns, among other things. One of its recommendations is to start the drawdown later in the year, but not as late as North Carolina would have it.
A decision is expected by the end of the year.
Mr. Gibson said the issue has been an emotional one for the people of his area; they want the levels kept high for their own use but do not necessarily like the idea of encouraging tourism and resort development.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A condominium project in Tryon, N.C., set in midst of rolling hills and horse farms. (Lyn Riddle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WHITTIER (NC)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; CONDOMINIUMS GOLF (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (85%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); COST OF LIVING (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (65%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1990



798 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: National Notebook: Galveston, Tex.;
Picking Up The Strand

BYLINE: By LETTICE STUART

 BODY:
FOR 14 years, George Mitchell and his wife, Cynthia, have tried doggedly to revitalize the Strand, a 17-block historic district on the National Register of Historic Places adjacent to Galveston's downtown. They have spent more than $40 million buying and restoring 16 buildings and soon will start on a $6.3 million hotel, restaurant and retail development overlooking the harbor a block away.
The project, scheduled to start in January, will be the first phase of a $26 million waterfront festival marketplace planned jointly by the Mitchells and the Woodlands Corporation, the real estate arm of Mitchell Energy and Development Corporation, of which Mr. Mitchell is chairman and president. It is part of his overall aim to bolster the port's economy by increasing tourism to 8 million visitors a year from 5 million, making the city of 58,000 residents the state's No. 2 tourist attraction (San Antonio, with 13 million visitors a year, is No. 1).
The city, a 32-mile-long barrier island 50 miles south of Houston, was called the "Queen City of the Gulf" in the last half of the 19th century, when 60 percent of all goods shipped to the Southwest came through its port. During the island's golden era in the 1870's, the Strand, its commercial area, was known as the "Wall Street of the Southwest." In 1900 a hurricane killed 6,000 residents, and the dredging of the Houston ship channel, in 1911, drew business away from Galveston.
By the time the Mitchells bought their first Strand building in 1976, the area had become a skid row. They paid $50,000 for the dilapidated three-story brick League Building, with its a cast-iron front, and spent more than $1 million restoring it for shops and a restaurant. In 1985 they converted a former merchandise mart into the 120-room Tremont House Hotel. Then they revived Galveston's Mardi Gras celebration, which now draws more than 350,000 people each February.
Their latest project, on a 10-acre former banana terminal site leased from the Port of Galveston, will include a 40-room bed-and-breakfast-style hotel called Harbor House; it will occupy the second and third floors of a three-story building with 24,000 square feet of retail space at ground level. A 10,000-square-foot building for shops and a restaurant will be built next door, overlooking a small marina.
The project, whose architects are Ford Powell & Carson of San Antonio, will be financed in part by a $900,000 Urban Development Action Grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development and $2.4 million generated by city tax reinvestment zone bonds. The Mitchells and the Woodlands Corporation will put up the remaining $3 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Tremont House Hotel in Galveston, Tex., was a former merchandise mart. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (71%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: GALVESTON, TX, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WOODLANDS CORP (72%); MITCHELL ENERGY & DEVELOPMENT CORP (71%); FORD POWELL & CARSON INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GALVESTON (TEX)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; RESTAURANTS; OFFICE BUILDINGS HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); HURRICANES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); BONDS (72%); MARDI GRAS (70%); TOURISM (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (67%); 

PERSON: STUART, LETTICE GEORGE J MITCHELL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1990



799 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Economy

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Nov. 25

 BODY:
The Hong Kong Government Friday revised the growth forecast for this British colony's gross domestic product in 1990 to 2.3 percent from 2.5 percent predicted in August. It also revised the inflation rate to 9.7 percent from 9.5 percent. The Government's chief economist, K. Y. Tang, said the colony's economy could have been hit harder by the slowdown in domestic exports to the United States, Britain and Japan if not for continued strong growth in re-exports, which involve goods assembled in Hong Kong of components made elsewhere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HONG KONG

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); INFLATION (90%); TRENDS (88%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1990



800 of 943 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Direct-Mail Plan Upsets Newspapers

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
The newspaper industry is up in arms about a proposal by the United States Postal Service to create a new third-class mail category that could potentially cost newspapers millions of dollars in lost business.
The proposal would give a 20 percent discount to direct-mail companies that use the mail to saturate an area with advertising circulars -- in direct competition with newspapers. 
 "This is the first time the Post Office has proposed anything as blatantly discriminatory," said W. Terry Maguire, senior vice president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association.
The association's chairman, Lloyd G. Schermer, who heads Lee Enterprises Inc., an Iowa newspaper chain, has sent an urgent appeal to fellow publishers to write postal authorities in hopes of defeating the proposal. "Do not delay!" his letter urged.
The Direct Marketing Association, which includes direct mailers, and the Postal Service defend the discount as fair and sensible.
"It's an automation discount," said Chester G. Dalzell, a spokesman for the association.
The proposal, if approved in January by the Postal Rate Commission, would reduce the cost of mailing each advertising circular by 20 percent if the circulars were mailed to a minimum of 75 percent of the stops on a delivery route and arrived at the post office in the order in which they were to be delivered.
Direct-mail companies like Advo System Inc. usually want their advertising circulars to reach every household on a route and they would generally meet the 75 percent threshold.
With many advertisers wanting their circulars to reach every household in an area, newspapers have increasingly been offering total market coverage by distributing circulars in their papers and mailing circulars to nonsubscribers. Normally, nonsubscribers would account for about 25 percent to 60 percent of the residences on a given mail route, but would rarely reach 75 percent. Therefore, under the proposal, the newspapers would pay the higher postage rate.
 
 $168 Million Loss Is Possible
 Because cost of delivery is a main factor in the fierce competition between direct mailers and newspapers for advertising circulars, the Newspaper Advertising Bureau estimates that newspapers stand to lose as much as $168 million in lost circular delivery business.
Indeed, the bureau estimates that half of the 59 billion advertising circulars that are delivered by newspapers could be at risk if advertisers shifted to direct mailers to get the postal discount.
The fundamental objection of newspapers, Mr. Maguire said, is that the new rates are a calculated effort to favor mailers over newspapers because the Postal Service wants to attract more revenue. But, he argued, since the Postal Service is owned by the Government and is not a private enterprise, it is obliged to set rates that are nondiscriminatory.
Thomas P. Shipe, principal economist for the Postal Service, said the discount was justified because so-called saturation mail was a very cost-efficient method of delivery.
 
 Seeking 95 Percent
 Most saturation mailers aim for 95 percent or more of the 500 deliveries that comprise a typical mail route. Mr. Shipe said he conducted tests that demonstrated such near-total saturation was far less costly on a per-piece basis than 25 percent saturation because the saturation mail was easier to merge with other mail.
Newspaper executives have argued that there is no proof that 75 percent saturation is more cost-efficient for the Postal Service to deliver than, for instance, 40 percent saturation, which is a standard most newspapers might be able to reach.
With newspaper advertising in a deep trough in most areas, the prospect of the Postal Service giving an advantage to mailers is particularly threatening to newspapers.
Vincent Giuliano, vice president for government relations at Advo System, argues that newspapers have a "blended rate" for advertising circulars that is based on a mixture of carrier delivery and mail. This blended rate, he said, would keep newspapers competitive with direct mailers, even with the 20 percent mail discount.
 
 An Issue of Fairness
 But Phillip J. Meek, president of the publishing group for Capital Cities/ ABC Inc., said the main issue was fairness, not the cost structure of newspaper advertising.
Mr. Meek sees advantages on both sides of the question because he oversees both Capital Cities's 10 newspapers and also its saturation mailing operation, which covers 1.7 million households in California. But he opposes the discount proposal.
"Just philosophically, I think for a Government-mandated monopoly like the Postal Service to discriminate against any particular party because it thinks it can generate added revenues for itself through differential pricing is just unfair," he said.
The Postal Rate Commission, an independent body, must make its recommendation on the proposal and other proposed postage rate increases by Jan. 6. The Postal Service's board of governors will then set new rates, which are expected to take effect in February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VCI (NYSE) (84%); LEE (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (84%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (84%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: VALASSIS COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); LEE ENTERPRISES INC (70%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (56%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (91%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (91%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (56%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (56%); POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE; NEWSPAPERS; DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING; ADVERTISING; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; RATES DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (93%); POSTAL SERVICE (93%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (91%); POSTAL RATES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1990

 
