

401 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Pamela Thomas-Graham;
Author Explores Issues Through Heroine

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
PAMELA THOMAS-GRAHAM is not Nikki Chase, the heroine of her mystery novels, but the two have much in common. Both are black professionals with Harvard degrees, and through Nikki Ms. Thomas-Graham is able to explore many issues, including racial profiling, interracial dating and the role of flamboyant black activists.
Ms. Thomas-Graham, who lives in Chappaqua, is a graduate of Harvard-Radcliffe College, and the Harvard Law and Business Schools. She is the first black woman to be named a partner at McKinsey & Company in Manhattan, the world's largest management consulting concern. Recently, she was named by Consulting magazine as one of the 10 most influential consultants in the United States. 
 Her writing career began with "A Darker Shade of Crimson," a book set at Harvard, and continues with her new book, "Blue Blood," released in May and set at Yale (both Simon & Schuster). She is at work on a third "Ivy League Mystery," whose setting will be Princeton. Ms. Thomas-Graham is married to Lawrence Otis Graham, who drew national attention after writing about the racial attitudes he experienced as a busboy at a Greenwich country club. Here are excerpts from a recent conversation with Ms. Thomas-Graham:
Q. How much of Nikki is you?
A. We have some traits in common because we're obviously both young black women working in environments that are traditionally white male environments, and we're both deeply steeped in Harvard. But we're pretty different. I'm married, a mother and living in New York, and she's single, living in Cambridge, and she's certainly a lot more adventurous than I am.
Q. Both of you had Detroit roots. What have you left behind in Detroit?
A. It's one of the themes I explore in the book -- this whole idea of having grown up in a city like Detroit, which is a majority black population, a city which has a lot of economic difficulties and continues to although they're starting to come out of it. My heroine is living in this environment in Cambridge, which is predominantly white. Her work life has very few people of color in it. My work life is similar.
One of the themes I explore in this new book is how it feels to then suddenly be thrust into a new situation, which does remind you a lot of home. For in this book Nikki does end up in New Haven, which is in many ways similar to Detroit. And so it's a very sharp visceral reminder to her of her upbringing, and it brings back to her a lot of questions as to what her responsibilities are to the black community and people who are less advantaged economically than she.
She is trying to combine that feeling of obligation and the desire to contribute with her ambition to be successful professionally. I think a lot of black professionals face those same kinds of issues.
Q. How have you dealt with those issues?
A. Well, I try to do a few different things. I do believe that being excellent in my professional life is an important part of making a contribution to the African-American community because it is quite important for people to believe that black professionals are excellent at their work and that they can achieve and succeed in exactly the same way as their white counterparts.
In addition to that I do try to use the skills I've learned in the corporate environment to work with not-for-profit organizations that really do provide services not just to the African-American community but to communities that are not as privileged economically. I sit on the board of the American Red Cross in Greater New York, and I try to utilize some of the business skills I've learned to help them use their money wisely. And I try to talk with young people who are considering business careers. A lot of young people -- and it's not exclusively black young people -- don't really understand how exciting business careers can be.
Q. Living in Chappaqua is very different from living in White Plains. Compare and contrast them.
A. Both of them are terrific communities. My husband is a longtime resident of White Plains. We really felt embraced by the community there, where we were for almost eight years. Chappaqua is clearly a much smaller community. Our son was born a year ago, and we felt Chappaqua would be a nice environment for him to be in because it is a much smaller community and is largely comprised of people with young children.
Q. Your husband, Lawrence, a Democrat, is considering a run for Congress. If he does, what would that mean to you? You talk about "power couples" in your book, and you are clearly part of one.
A. To be honest, that label "power couple" has almost started to become pejorative. Because the reality is, Lawrence was highly successful when I met him and I had achieved quite a lot before I met him. Clearly, I think that the two of us combined are even more than the two of us separate. But the reason I married him is he is incredibly supportive of my professional goals and I of his. We draw strength from each other.
Q. He has written about many racist things that have happened to him. I take it your experiences were not like that.
A. I think I have experienced racism in my life in ways that are probably more subtle than some of the things Lawrence has gone through, primarily because I am a woman. My situations have been much more the case where people have not taken me seriously, have assumed I'm the secretary on the team, as opposed to the partner on the team. I have been followed through stores on Madison Avenue because people assume that I as a young black woman couldn't have the income to be shopping there. I've never had a violent confrontation, but I've had many instances of feeling diminished and demeaned because of people's attitudes toward me as a black woman.
Q. In your book Nikki is stopped for "driving while black." Much has been written on the subject of racial profiling. How do you balance what the police call good police skills with not following racist policies?
A. I think what really angers black professionals about this whole situation is that it literally is such a visceral reminder that the color of our skin is the first and only thing that some people see. They don't see how we're dressed. They don't see our facial expressions. They don't see how we conduct ourselves. All they see is a black person doing something they assume a black person should not be doing.
Q. Nikki has a white boyfriend. And your character acknowledges that this is a big issue in the black community. Talk about that.
A. A lot of people have told me that it is very realistic that someone in my heroine's situation would have this issue to deal with because the reality is that there are just not as many black men who are in college at all and particularly not in the Ivy League.
I was talking to someone at Harvard in the freshman class, and she said there were roughly 100 black freshmen and 75 of them are women. So, statistically, black women have to confront this issue. My own view, because I'm quite the romantic at heart, is that you should be with the person you're in love with irrespective of their background.
Q. Your book includes a black activist, someone like the Rev. Al Sharpton. You seem to have some ambivalence about such people.
A. This is clearly a voice for people who don't have a voice and I think no matter what any of his detracters say, people like Al Sharpton speak for people who otherwise would not be heard.
At the same time, I think even his closest admirers would say there is clearly an element in all these figures of needing to be recognized, wanting to have the microphone, wanting to be front and center. So it raises an important issue: what is the right leadership model, particularly for a minority group that has traditionally had economic problems? Is there only one model? How do you achieve a state where there are multiple voices?
Q. And what is the answer?
A. I'm sure that's a whole other book. But one of the reasons I'm so excited that Lawrence is considering running for Congress is, he is clearly a person of courage who has dealt with racism issues but also has reason, judgment and balance. He is the kind of person we need, not just speaking for the black community but for all of us. If Lawrence wins, he will be the first black ever to be elected north of New York City in the entire state of New York.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pamela Thomas-Graham, an author and a partner at McKinsey & Company, in her office in Manhattan. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (95%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (95%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (95%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (95%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHAPPAQUA (NY); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; WOMEN; BLACKS; PROFESSIONS WRITERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); WOMEN (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RACIAL PROFILING (73%); 

PERSON: THOMAS-GRAHAM, PAMELA; GREENE, DONNA NIKKI CHASE (77%); LAWRENCE OTIS GRAHAM (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



402 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 15; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Call It Easy Street or Windfall, Lottery Gold Can Fade Fast

BYLINE: By DAN GRABEL 

 BODY:
IF 1999 is an average year for lottery winners in Westchester County, five people will achieve the promise of "a dollar and a dream" and win the jackpot offered by New York state every Wednesday and Saturday. Sixty-three residents have made the big hit since the lottery began 33 years ago.
Because betting is down by 4 percent, the lottery division of the state's Department of Taxation and Finance will be creating new ways to attract business. That is a constant effort because some players get bored and others need a jolt, like a $10 million jackpot, to spark their interest. 
 But that wasn't the case with a player from Irvington who recently won. At a news conference held in Irvington, an ebullient John F. Buckhout who facetiously described himself as "a sanitation engineer," became the state's 87th Lotto millionaire last Wednesday when he picked up a pre-tax check for $3.25 million. Mr. Buckhout immediately hired a financial planner at Lehman Brothers, bought his wife, Stephanie, a shiny Cadillac sports utility vehicle and is trying to buy a season pass to the New York Jets games.
One of Mr. Buckhout's colleagues on his garbage route said that generally a group of Irvington workers bought a Lotto ticket and coffee when they stopped at Zarrilli's delicatessen on Main Street. But on a recent Saturday, when they were off work, Mr. Buckhout went into the delicatessen alone and bought the winning ticket. It was worth $7 million for a 20-year payout. Mr. Buckhout chose the cash instead.
The latest lottery versions appeal to different regions of the state: Big Apple Lotto, Long Island Lotto, Upstate Lotto and Western N.Y. Lotto. Among those four, the game you play depends on the region where you buy the ticket. The estimated weekly top prize is $110,000. While you may have your heart set on millions, Jeff Perlee, until recently the director of the lottery, said, "Research shows people play not just for the jackpot, but a chance to win any prize."
Lottery officials say that under the new format announced in March, which reduced the number selection from 54 to 51, there are "better odds and more chances to win." But not for the jackpot, where the odds went from roughly 12 million to 1 to 18 million to 1 and the cost of a game went from 50 cents to $1.
The No. 1 ticket seller in Westchester is Homefield Bowl on Sawmill River Road in Yonkers, which sold $923,776 worth of games last year. Which is the luckiest shop? With only five jackpots in the county in 1998, no one shop is regarded as the hot place. Gail Felder of White Plains, buying chances on Main Street, said, "If I win something here, this will be my lucky store."
The lottery started out with just one type of game, and now there are more than two dozen lottery and instant cash versions, with more being introduced as quickly as some inventive genius can devise a new way to make a long shot appealing. While the lottery's annual profit of about $1.5 billion is supposed to help finance education, the money goes into the state's general fund and becomes what the politicians like to call "fungible." That means Albany lawmakers mix the dollars with all other income, and it could end up anywhere.
The prize money's destination is a bit easier to follow: it goes into winners' bank accounts. But, almost universally, Wednesday and Saturday's high-profile winners disappear into anonymity after the first blush of publicity. Finding them is a job for Sherlock Holmes. The most anonymous men and women in Westchester are the people who have hit the jackpot.
Statewide, there have been more than 1,182 new millionaires in these games of chance where $1 may put the winner on easy street -- but not always for life. Con artists, telemarketers and long-lost real and fake relatives are quickly on the phone to relieve the winners of some of their cash, and just as quickly those phones become unlisted numbers. Winners often turn the pot of gold into a new home in a new location, making the search for winners almost impossible.
Nevertheless, hours on the phone finally uncovered a few Westchester winners and revealed that having a reputation as a millionaire is not as enviable as losers might think.
Phyliss Penzo of Yonkers shared a $6 million prize with Robert Cunningham of Dobbs Ferry in 1984. After Federal and state tax bites, their annual earnings come to around $100,000 -- not a great fortune in today's economy. Ms. Penzo, a former pizzeria waitress, said the money had not changed her life that much, but she was grateful for the windfall. She and her husband, Robert, fixed up the old family home, and she takes care of her elderly mother and her grandchildren. The Penzos never went on a glamorous cruise. For a couple of years they were hounded by callers who had something to sell. In five years the annual payout will end. Millionaire? It was temporary.
Robert Cunningham was a Yonkers detective when he bought some Lotto tickets and shared them with Ms. Penzo instead of giving her a tip at the pizzeria. He is retired and lives modestly in his old home, which he renovated. He bought a Cadillac and, with his wife, Gina, has taken trips to Alaska, the Canadian Rockies and the District of Columbia.
The Cunninghams had an unlisted phone number for a few years. "I'm not wallowing in money, and, yeah, like Phyliss, I still play Lotto," Mr. Cunningham said.
Carmen Kramer of Mamaroneck and her daughter Karen shared a $10 million prize in 1998. She said: "The win gives you a lot of security. Luck is the name God uses when he wants to be anonymous. God has been good to me."
Bernice Hunter Lemon of Ossining, a single mother with three children, bought a $1,000-a-Week-for-Life ticket in the summer of 1997 but did not claim her prize until December of that year. She is guaranteed no less than $1 million.
When a 40-year-old telephone operator, Yvonne Wright of Mount Vernon, was asked why she chose Quick Pick, the automatic number selector, instead of selecting her own six numbers, she said, "I don't have time to sit down and write out six numbers." Good thing she didn't. The machine picked winners worth a $10 million prize in 1995.
Dorothy T. O'Connor of White Plains, a widow and a secretary, won $6 million in 1992 and takes her prize over 20 years at $285,715 a year, before state and Federal taxes. Does she still play Lotto? Her answer: "Lightning may strike twice."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Various kinds of lottery tickets, above. Sherman Schwartz buys a Win for Life ticket at Homefield Bowl on Sawmill River Road in Yonkers. Blanche Spansky pays off a $9 winning ticket to a customer at Homefield Bowl. (Photographs by Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES LOTTERIES (93%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); TICKET SALES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); 

PERSON: GRABEL, DAN JOHN F BUCKHOUT (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



403 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/Grand Army Plaza;
Spaces that March to Different Drummers

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
ONE of Donald J. Trump's current projects, raising the sunken plaza in front of the General Motors Building, on the east side of Fifth Avenue from 58th to 59th Streets, brushes against one of New York's early preservation battles and focuses attention on the entire Plaza area itself. For the construction of the General Motors Building in 1968 followed bitter protests over its changes to the Grand Army Plaza, complaints that remain unresolved even by the work in progress.
As a work of design, the double court on the west side of Fifth from 58th to 60th Streets, was nothing special in the 19th century, little more than two plots of grass and paving. But the hotels that ringed the area by the 1890's gave it a de facto importance. 
 When the Plaza Hotel, with its white masonry with a green roof, was built in 1907, today's Grand Army Plaza in front was still unformed. But in 1911 the publisher Joseph Pulitzer died, leaving $50,000 in his will for a fountain to be erected on the site.
The design by Carrere & Hastings for the new plaza was serene and peaceful, a layered fountain leading up to Karl Bitter's "Abundance" statue. It included free-standing columns and balusters to set the area apart -- elements that were built, but later removed -- and a closely spaced ring of topiary trees trimmed as cubes, which was never carried out.
In 1926, the owner of the Plaza Hotel, Harry S. Black, bought the 1892 Savoy Hotel and other buildings directly facing his hotel to erect by 1928 a new 29-story apartment hotel, the Savoy Plaza. Designed by McKim, Mead & White, the newer building played a skyscraper foil to the Plaza Hotel, with a white marble base, white brick and a giant green tiled roof.
Gradually, this white-and-green color scheme became the dominant theme of the Plaza, with the Bergdorf-Goodman, Squibb and other buildings following suit; the white played off nicely with the marble of the Carrere & Hastings fountain. The 1939 W. P. A. Guide to New York City praised the "extraordinary unity" of the surrounding buildings.
The announcement that an investment group would demolish the Savoy Plaza for a new office building came in August 1964 in a city just rocked by the loss of Penn Station. The outlook, even for the most important buildings, seemed bleak; the Landmarks Preservation Commission was not established until the following year.
In October 1964 the architects and teachers Elliot Willensky and Norval White, who had picketed at Penn Station to protest its demolition, organized their students in a demonstration at the Plaza to protest the demolition of the Savoy Plaza. Signs included "Renege on Rampant Wrecking" and one placard, "Landmarks Preservation Weak," was a bitter satirical jab at Mayor Robert F. Wagner, who had just declared "Landmarks Preservation Week" but had not put any law into effect. One student, Miles Kurland, carried a sign "Save the Seagram Building." He told The New York Times that he was "thinking ahead."
The architect of what became the General Motors building, Edward Durrell Stone, designed a 50-story shaft with angled piers of white marble -- "a white building for a white plaza," he told The Times in 1964. In accord with the 1961 zoning law revision, the tower set back from the street to create a plaza -- considered by city regulations an amenity, which in turn permitted the building to be taller.
But instead of the typical open space with fountains and benches, this one was really a shopping plaza. Excavating the front area allowed a perimeter of stores around a sunken plaza, reached from the street by a stairway on Fifth.
This voided the possibility of a grand, central approach to the building, but it also reduced and isolated the traffic on the plaza. Besides, recalls Hicks Stone, son of Edward Durrell Stone and also an architect, since the retail space was underground it did not count against the building's zoning allowance and "the annual rent exceeded the amount of the architect's fees."
The most serious issue raised was not the appearance of the new building, but its overall effect on the Grand Army Plaza, seen as one of New York's few successful open spaces -- a space defined by an even perimeter of complementary buildings, but broken by the notch for the General Motors Plaza.
The sunken plaza was "a sick planning joke," wrote Ada Louise Huxtable in The Times in 1966. It was "a poor man's Rockefeller Center skating rink," wrote Peter Blake in New York Magazine in 1968, the year the building was finished.
W HO needs a plaza on a plaza?" say the 1978 and 1988 editions of the AIA Guide to New York City, by Willensky and White. But Business Week quoted Arthur Dooley, general manager of the Plaza Hotel, as saying that the new building "opened up air space and improved the general feeling around the area."
Edward Durrell Stone was one of those who brushed off criticism. In 1968 he gave a reporter for Business Week this account of a conversation he just happened to overhear by two men gazing upon the new structure: " 'It's more beautiful than the Taj Mahal,' " one exclaimed. 'They ought to knight the s.o.b. who designed it,' said the other.' " And in 1972 Stone told Paul Goldberger, for a profile in The Times on the architect: "There isn't a taxi driver in New York who won't say the General Motors Building is the most beautiful thing in the city."
Last year Mr. Trump bought, with Conseco, an insurance company based in Carmel, Ind., the General Motors Building and leased part of the ground floor to CBS, which will use it for a live morning news show with the rest of the plaza as a backdrop. The customary name inflation has followed -- signs on the construction fence now read "General Motors Building at Trump International Plaza" -- and Mr. Trump has rethought the sunken retail area. "Sunken plazas in general don't work, and that plaza never worked," he says. "The only retail space in New York that's below street level that's worked is the space in Trump Tower."
So, working with the landscape architects Thomas Balsley Associates and the architects LeClere Associates, Mr. Trump is covering most of the sunken plaza, recapturing that area for retail space with a small entry stairway. The roof of the new retail space will form a new open plaza, several steps above grade, with fountains and seating areas on either side, and a central walkway from Fifth Avenue to the General Motors Building; it will be finished next year.
Asked if, from a real estate point of view, he would prefer having the old Savoy Plaza on the site of the present General Motors Building, Mr. Trump -- whose Trump International Hotel and condominium apartments overlooks 59th Street on the opposite side of Central Park -- hesitated a moment. "Well the GM building is . . . 2 million square feet," he said with emphasis. "But I believe that when I finish, the G.M. building will top the Savoy Plaza esthetically as well."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Work has begun on covering most of the G.M. building's sunken plaza. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times) Right, Savoy Plaza in 1928, facing Grand Army Plaza fountain. (Library of Congress)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BALSLEY, THOMAS, ASSOCIATES; LECLERE ASSOCIATES GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALSLEY, THOMAS, ASSOCIATES; LECLERE ASSOCIATES LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GRAND ARMY PLAZA (NYC); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



404 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
Where the Ante Is Always Going Up

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER 

 BODY:
THIS is the story of five brothers and a temptation-filled city. It is the story of how one of those brothers picked up three cards from a poker table and found himself staring into the pit of personal destruction. It is the story of a monumental effort by some of this nation's best minds to address a vexatious, volatile issue. It is, in fact, a darned complicated story, so we'll dispense with any more of these irksome foreshadowing sentences.
The gist of it is, my four brothers and I, not to mention my father and a brother-in-law, recently held our first ever men's-only reunion, picking Atlantic City for the honor. For three days we did all the things men do when they get together without chaperones. 
 Most of those things are, of course, unprintably boring, so we'll here discuss only one: our attempt to sample the casino life style without encountering bankruptcy. In this regard, two of the five brothers succeeded admirably -- they walked into several casinos, took appreciative note of the flashing lights, and left. Another brother contented himself with looking like a common, contemptible tourist, playing only the quarter slot and video-poker machines.
And two of us went for the real thing: the card tables. I'm ashamed to admit that although I try to do everything I can to support New Jersey's economy, including buying lottery tickets, I had never been in a casino before. Fortunately, brother Dale had, and he taught me the basics: never buy chips with $20 bills (too small; you look like a rube), never yell "Good golly jeepers!" when you hit 21 at the blackjack table.
He also taught me how to play a seductive little game called Let It Ride. It's a simple game built around a five-card poker hand. You're dealt three cards, then the dealer shows a fourth card, and a fifth. If you have a pair of 10's or higher among those five cards, you win something. As the hand unfolds, you're given two chances to pull back some of your bet if things aren't going well.
I was playing at the cheapest table there was, where the minimum bet to start a hand was $30. I was about halfway through losing $100 when it happened: The dealer gave me my three cards, and they were all 7's.
I had three of a kind with two cards still to be revealed. If either one was a 7, my $30 bet would turn into a 50-to-1 payoff. Brother Dale immediately started gambling-addiction counseling, but it was too late.
Let me relate the backdrop against which this was all happening. A few days before our visit, the National Gambling Impact Study Commission, which spent two years examining the explosion of gambling, issued a thorough, balanced report. It is by no means anti-gambling, but it urges states that have rushed rabidly into the lottery and casino business to stop and think it through.
It's a significant document that ought to provoke discussion. And how have we reacted in the month since its release? "New Jersey Yawns at Federal Report on Gaming," read a headline in the Atlantic City paper. The article had comments from the Mayor, legislators and others who seemed to feel the report couldn't possibly be significant. Many admitted that they came to that conclusion without actually reading it.
Dr. James C. Dobson, president of Focus on the Family and the commission member most concerned about gambling, says that's about what he expected from the politicians, given the way money and influence work. But he still has hope that the commission's efforts won't be for nothing.
"Who would have believed 30 years ago that the American people could be weaned away from cigarettes?" he said. "How did that happen? It happened because the facts were presented. If this commission starts that process, then I'll feel my time will have been well spent."
Back at the casino, Dale was dragging me out the door. There had been no fourth 7, no big payoff. I was sure there would be one in the next hand, or the next, but he wasn't buying.
Later, hogtied to a chair in my hotel room, I had time to think. Here's what I thought:
Anyone who says gambling isn't addictive is nuts. Anyone who says Atlantic City -- a beach town where no one goes to the beach, a town with absurd opulence on one block and ragged poverty on the next -- is healthy is nuts. Anyone who thinks a state that was once built on things like farming and glass is better off now that it relies increasingly on gaming is -- well, is looking at three 7's, foolishly thinking the fourth is on the way.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS POKER (90%); GAMING (90%); CARD GAMES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); LOTTERIES (50%); 

PERSON: GENZLINGER, NEIL

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



405 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Life Through the Eyes of Teen-Age Girls

BYLINE: By ALIX BOYLE 

 BODY:
ADOLESCENT girls feel an overwhelming pressure to be smart, beautiful, popular and mature. That pressure, from parents, peers, and the media, can lead to depression, eating disorders, self-mutilation and sexual experiences that happen too soon.
So says 18-year-old Sara Shandler, a student at Wesleyan University and the author of "Ophelia Speaks" (HarperCollins, 1999), a book of essays by teen-age girls ages 12 to 18 on topics ranging from eating disorders and body image to teen pregnancy and relationships with parents. She said she hopes girls will take away the message that they are not alone and their experiences aren't unique. 
 "I wrote the book in the hope that other teen-agers would see themselves in the book and be helped by that and so parents and other adults could understand us better," Ms. Shandler said. "I hoped they would see who we are in our own words."
Ms. Shandler, who has kept a journal since she was 8, read "Reviving Ophelia," a chronicle of the problems of teen-age girls in the 1990's by the psychologist Mary Pipher. But Ms. Shandler said she thought, although the book had merit, its message was filtered through adult eyes.
On the way home from a family vacation, Ms. Shandler's father, Michael, suggested that she write her own book and call it "Ophelia Speaks." Ms. Shandler, then a 16-year-old junior at Amherst Regional High School in Amherst, Mass.,mailed 7,000 letters to junior high and high school principals and school psychologists. She asked them to pass along her letter requesting contributions to her book to the girls in the school.
More than 800 girls responded and 75 essays eventually were published in the book. Ms. Shandler starts each chapter with a brief introduction about the topic. She writes briefly about her own experiences, then comments on the essays from girls who live in different regions of the country and come from differing racial and economic backgrounds.
On depression, Ms. Shandler writes: "The worst night of my life I envisioned my own funeral, my death by suicide. I curled up in a tight ball, paralyzed by my imagination. My parents were the only people who cried at the service.
"Writing here is only the third time I've confessed those deathly images. The next day, I tearfully told my 10th-grade boyfriend. Later, I confided in my journal. Now, I tell you."
Ms. Shandler goes on to say that, although she is the daughter of a therapist, she didn't seek help, but wished she had. Instead, she practiced self-therapy by reading feminist authors like Alice Walker, writing in her journal about her feelings, and sitting and thinking.
"I didn't like myself and I had a thousand reasons," she said. "I was just not turning out to be the person I wanted to be." Eventually, the depression lifted.
In the chapter on first sexual experiences, Ms. Shandler reports that she lost her virginity a month before her 15th birthday, and that most girls who wrote to her wished they had waited for a "more perfect time" to have sex.
"No one wrote about feeling satisfied by first-time sexual relationships," Ms. Shandler writes. "Instead of feeling love and commitment, girls consistently reported disappointment and disillusionment."
But girls have always felt the pressures of growing up. What makes today's adolescents different?
"There's not one answer," Ms. Shandler said. "To say just one thing oversimplifies it. But I could point to a few things like the media representation of women. We equate thinness with success. There's also the pressure to have a good job when you finish school and be successful. The feminist movement came with some incredible benefits, but it has its downfalls as well. I think there's more pressure to be a mini-adult from the time we're very young."
Ms. Pipher, the author of "Reviving Ophelia," was unavailable to comment on Ms. Shandler's book.
Books like "Ophelia Speaks" are useful because they encourage young women to talk about their feelings, said Elizabeth Rubin, a licensed clinical social worker in Guilford who treats adolescents and has led discussion groups for middle-school girls.
"The more you can get girls to articulate what's going on in their interior lives, the better," Ms. Rubin said. "The process of giving voice to an experience can be very validating. Research has shown that young women don't trust their own perceptions, they don't listen to that little voice inside them. This book reinforces that."
In choosing a boyfriend, for example, women and girls may not listen to their inner voice telling them that the guy is wrong for them. Later, in therapy, a woman may admit that the internal signals were there, but she didn't listen, Ms. Rubin said.
Ms. Rubin asked the Adams Middle School in Guilford to refer girls who were reluctant to speak up in class or who might benefit from having a place to discuss the same issues raised in "Ophelia Speaks." The girls talked about fearing they wouldn't be popular if they answered too many questions in class or appeared too smart. Others were unhappy because their bodies were not the same as the models in fashion magazines.
After attending the discussion group, one girl had the courage to confront a male teacher for his sexist behavior and several others filed a complaint with the principal about boys who were repeatedly harassing them in the halls.
Those who study teen behavior said that, in many ways, life has improved for teen-agers, said Dr. John Schowalter, an adolescent psychiatrist and director of clinical services at the Yale Child Study Center.
Teen-age girls are more careful about sexuality and teen-age pregnancy rates are down. Use of hard drugs is down. Fewer teens are dying in alcohol-related car accidents. Tobacco use by teen-agers is starting to fall, Dr. Schowalter said.
But, Dr. Schowalter said cases of anorexia and bulimia have increased in the last 15 years, probably due to greater recognition that bulimia is a disease that must be treated.
There are more female role models who are not rail thin than there were a generation ago, including Oprah Winfrey, Rosie O'Donnell, Attorney General Janet Reno and Secretary of State Madeline Albright.
"When people write about adolescence, they remember the pain about that time, the date they didn't get, the cliques and that their face was bursting with zits," Dr. Schowalter said.
But it would be hard to prove, scientifically, that it's more stressful to be a teen-ager now that it ever was, he said.
Ms. Shandler has no other books in the works and is waiting to see where "Ophelia Speaks" will take her. Although she has not declared a major, she suspects her studies will have something to do with writing.
"Being a teen-age girl is impossible to put into one sentence," Ms. Shandler said. "That's why I had to do a whole book."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sara Shandler, 18, is a student at Wesleyan University and the author of "Ophelia Speaks." (Gale Zucker)(pg. 01); "Ophelia Speaks" is a book of essays written by teen-age girls. (pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OPHELIA SPEAKS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EATING DISORDERS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); DEPRESSION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SUICIDE (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); 

PERSON: SHANDLER, SARA; BOYLE, ALIX SARA SHANDLER (95%); ELIZABETH RUBIN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



406 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2750 words

HEADLINE: Filling the Space Atop Symphony Space

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
WHAT'S gray, 108 feet 11 inches long, 5 feet 5 inches high and weighs 23 tons? Answer: The solution to a vexatious and long-running development dilemma on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Occupying a large lot on a busy intersection, the Symphony Space performing arts center at Broadway and 95th Street has attracted many would-be developers over the years who almost always wanted to tear the place down. The dilemma was that the nonprofit Symphony Space, starved for money though it was, could not bear to sacrifice its quirky auditorium, which was patched together from a 1915 market hall and former ice-skating rink. 
 The solution rumbled over the George Washington Bridge early in the morning of July 10 and, by nightfall, had been hoisted into place: five enormous steel girders long enough to span the width of the auditorium, allowing 17 floors of apartments to be constructed over the theater.
"Normally, a foundation is below ground," said Joseph Zelazny, the president of Kreisler Borg Florman, the construction manager of the $89 million project. "Here, it is above an existing building."
The concrete and steel platform that is created around these girders will support a load of 13,600 tons (27.2 million pounds), according to the engineers, Jacob S. Grossman and Chen Li of Rosenwasser/Grossman.
Including the theater and retail space at the base, the building will have 22 stories in all, towering over the quaint cottages and gardens of the landmark Pomander Walk to the west. There will be 285 rental apartments, 71 set aside for lower-income tenants. It is to be finished at the end of 2000. The project is being developed by the Related Companies and designed by Costas Kondylis Associates.
Starting with several million dollars from the sale of its air rights to Related, Symphony Space will launch a capital campaign to create an endowment, rehabilitate its main theater and rebuild the Thalia theater downstairs. This project is designed by the Polshek Partnership.
As a crane lifted the first girder skyward last Saturday morning from the back of a flatbed trailer almost half the length of a city block, Isaiah Sheffer, the co-founder and artistic director of Symphony Space, watched intently from a nearby Broadway median. Suddenly, he burst into song: "O beautiful for spacious skies . . ."
He might as well have been singing "All My Trials." Or "The Long and Winding Road."
Ever since the mid-80's, Symphony Space has been trying to exploit the economic potential of its property while maintaining its off-beat spot in the city's cultural firmament. Real estate figures as canny and experienced as the Zeckendorf and Rose families, Christopher M. Jeffries and Philip E. Aarons, Leonard Boxer and Charles A. Goldstein have come and gone, frustrated by the complexities and uncertainties of the site.
What is now Symphony Space was built in 1915 by Vincent Astor as the 95th Street Market. Thomas Healy bought the building in 1917 and converted the 20,000-square-foot main hall into the Crystal Palace skating rink and the fish market downstairs into the Sunken Gardens restaurant. He built the three-story Healy Building at 94th Street.
On an adjacent mid-block site running from 94th to 95th Street, Healy developed Pomander Walk in 1922. A tiny patch of Tudor England on the Upper West Side, this is a double row of cottages facing one another across a walkway lined by gardens.
The Crystal Palace became the Symphony Theater and the Sunken Gardens became the Thalia, a cinema designed by Raymond Irrera and Ben Schlanger that was one of the city's best-known revival houses.
In January 1978, Mr. Sheffer, a writer and director for theater and television, and Allan Miller, an orchestra conductor who is now a documentary filmmaker, rented the Symphony Theater for a 12-hour Bach marathon. The next day, with coins donated by concertgoers, they opened a bank account under the name Symphony Space.
Symphony Space quickly became "a sort of artistic town square for the neighborhood," wrote Peter Salwen in "Upper West Side Story" (Abbeville Press, 1989).
By the end of 1978, it bought the building for $10,010 from Broadwest Realty Corporation and leased back the retail space to Broadwest, which also owned Pomander Walk and the Healy Building. Significantly, Symphony Space granted Broadwest an option to repurchase the theater building as far into the future as 2003.
IN 1981, Broadwest sold its properties, leases and option to Bradford N. Swett and Pergola Properties for $4.8 million. The new owners converted Pomander Walk into a co-operative and served notice on Symphony Space in 1985 that they would exercise the purchase option. Among Pergola's plans was to tear down Symphony Space and replace it with a multiplex.
Symphony Space, meanwhile, was trying to work out its own development deal and battling the purchase option in court. That case was not resolved until June 1996 at the Court of Appeals in Albany.
At issue was whether an option to purchase commercial property was covered by the Rule Against Perpetuities, a judicial concept originating in the 17th century whose purpose is to prevent the "dead hand of landowners reaching into future generations," as the court put it. In the case of corporations, the rule in New York State is that a property interest is void unless it vests within 21 years. The Symphony Space option ran more than 24 years.
Unanimously, the Court of Appeals found that the option "violates the statutory prohibition against remote vesting and is therefore unenforceable." Symphony Space emerged with clear title to its own home.
"What we sought to do was preserve Symphony Space as a community resource -- in perpetuity," said Steven M. Alden of Debevoise & Plimpton, a lawyer who has represented the organization since 1978.
"I wept," recalled Joanne Cossa, the executive vice president and managing director of Symphony Space, when word of the decisive legal victory came down.
A month later, she wept again.
A bill arrived for $770,000 in real estate taxes on the retail space, which had been leased to Pergola and Mr. Swett. "We quickly learned that they hadn't paid their taxes for quite a number of years," Ms. Cossa said. The notice came from a collection agency for an investment partnership in Connecticut that had purchased the tax lien from the city. "There was simply no way," Mr. Sheffer said, "that we could raise money to pay off someone else's taxes."
Fresh from winning control of its building, Symphony Space now faced foreclosure.
There were three choices, said William L. Haines, the chairman of the Symphony Space real estate committee and former chairman of its board. Least palatable was clearing the 95th Street site and starting over. A second choice was simply to renovate the commercial space and find higher-end retail tenants.
But with the residential real estate market percolating again, Mr. Haines sought a developer interested in the more complicated prospect of buying the Healy Building, assuming the tax liability and devising a way to preserve Symphony Space.
Last summer, he turned to a fellow board member from the 14th Street-Union Square Local Development Corporation: Jeff T. Blau, executive vice president of the Related Companies, headed by Stephen M. Ross.
"Steve had a reputation for being able to get from here to there," Mr. Haines said.
By purchasing the Healy Building, Related opened up the full Broadway blockfront for development. Before it could proceed, however, Related had to settle lawsuits involving Mr. Swett, Symphony Space and the retail tenants. It also had to pay the back taxes, which had built up with interest to more than $1.25 million.
Related also had to move quickly to take advantage of a year-end reallocation of bonding authority that would permit the sale, through the city Housing Development Corporation, of $89 million in low-interest, 30-year bonds, exempt from city, state and Federal taxes, to finance the project.
The use of tax-exempt bonds ordinarily obliges a developer to set aside 20 percent of the units for lower-income families, with 80 percent at market rates, and Related is an experienced builder of "80-20" projects.
But in the Symphony Space project, Mr. Blau said, city officials negotiated a 25 percent set-aside in return for speeding the application. Those units will be rented to tenants whose incomes are no higher than 60 percent of the current $50,000 median for the area (or $30,000 for a family of four).
Related will build 11 low-income apartments at 221 West 105th Street to qualify for a 20 percent zoning bonus under the city's "inclusionary housing" program. This yields an extra 40,000 square feet -- roughly 40 apartments -- on the Broadway site. The overall development will have 325,000 square feet of gross floor space, including retail space below grade and the theaters.
Under the deal, Symphony Space will own its auditorium and the Thalia. Related will take title to everything above the top of the theater itself, in an arrangement known as a "fee above a plane." To accommodate construction, Symphony Space will be dark for four months, through October.
Neither Related nor Symphony Space would disclose how much was being paid for the development rights, amounting to more than 200,000 square feet. In today's market, air rights might easily trade for $50 a square foot, suggesting an amount in the neighborhood of $10 million or higher.
That would be a nice neighborhood, but Symphony Space officials said they must raise at least $5 million to build a new lobby, marquee, box office, bathrooms, heating and air-conditioning systems, elevator for the disabled, dressing rooms, offices and backstage area. After that is finished in 2001, they hope to rebuild the Thalia, primarily as a repertory movie house.
"We offered to knock down the theater and build them a brand new, state-of-the-art theater," Mr. Blau said. The answer was no; Symphony Space had to be kept.
Mr. Sheffer and Ms. Cossa feared a crippling loss of momentum from being closed for demolition and reconstruction. "You lose your place with artists and funders if you're out of business two years," he said.
They were also devoted to their old hall. "The space itself is a large part of our success," Mr. Sheffer said. "You can have 832 people and it feels homey."
Ms. Cossa said even the blacked-out skylights contribute to the ambiance, by making the low room seem a bit higher, and may augment the acoustics. "It is magical," she said, "and we didn't want to mess with this space and wind up with something worse."
Enter Rosenwasser/Grossman Consulting Engineers. Among several hundred projects in New York City, the 45-year-old firm engineered the Westyard Building, 450 West 33d Street, which spans the 220-foot-wide railroad cut leading from the Hudson River tunnel into Pennsylvania Station.
One of their first proposals was to insert a column through the west gallery of the auditorium, which would have cut off 30 to 40 seats. "Couldn't the column go against the wall?" Mr. Sheffer asked. "That's a very long span," Mr. Grossman replied.
The most obvious spanning method -- structural steel trusses -- was ruled out because such trusses would be too large to assemble in place and too heavy to build elsewhere, transport and raise into position. They would also be so tall that the building would lose a full floor of apartments.
Instead, Mr. Grossman and Mr. Li proposed to erect five steel girders to serve as the supporting core for two gigantic concrete beams filled with hundreds of steel reinforcing rods, or rebar.
"This is not something we invented for this project," Mr. Grossman said, "but we've never done it on this scale."
Each beam will be 11 feet high after the concrete is poured and formed. The south beam will be 8 feet wide, with two steel girders at its core, spanning the auditorium at a slight angle. The north beam will be 10 feet wide, with three girders at its core.
The beams are supported on the east side by angled concrete supports known as shear walls and on the west side by steel columns that have been erected in two holes chopped through the far end of the auditorium. Much larger concrete columns will be poured around those steel members.
The girders are cambered -- or bowed -- 6 inches. They will straighten out under compression from the tremendous weight above but still clear the saw-tooth skylight bulkheads atop Symphony Space.
The girders were made by Metropolitan Steel in Sinking Spring, Pa., about 110 miles southwest of New York, for the Skyline Steel Corporation of Brooklyn, the subcontractor.
They arrived in Manhattan before dawn on July 10. The flatbed trailers composed a caravan nearly one-quarter of a mile in length, parked along Broadway from 94th to 99th Street. A crane with a 200-foot-long hydraulic boom stood in front of Symphony Space to lift the steel into position.
It took only seven minutes to hoist the first girder off the truck and set it down. A small crew of ironworkers stationed around the Symphony Space rooftop guided the giant pieces into place, seemingly with no more exertion than would be needed to move a bureau around a bedroom.
One worker, Steve Coffin, was almost balletic in his movements. As he and his colleagues clambered surefootedly over the girders, Tom McClain of Seamus Henchy and Associates, the project manager for Symphony Space, marveled. "It takes you back to our arboreal past," he said.
TWENTY or so contractors, architects, engineers, Symphony Space officials and family members watched the spectacle from a Broadway median. Making a cameo appearance was the actor Jonathan Hadary, who has performed readings at Symphony Space. He stopped by on his way to breakfast.
Knots of pedestrians gathered across the street in front of the Key West Diner and Hotel Newton. Brian McClave, who lives nearby, offered his 3 1/2-year-old daughter, Margot, the best seat in the house: atop his shoulders. "That guy better watch his fingers up there, right?" said he to her.
Not everyone welcomes 285 new apartments where the subway station is already crowded and the streets already congested. A passerby who recognized Mr. Sheffer, but did not identify himself, called out angrily and sarcastically as he walked by: "Congratulations. A 22-story building. That's really responsible of you."
There is ill will toward Mr. Sheffer on Pomander Walk, too. "I have had all my neighbors say to me, 'I'll never go into Symphony Space again,' " said Stan Clickstein, a retired woodworker who lives on the walk and was a leader in an unsuccessful fight against the project. "He sold us down the river. People believe that."
"We're outraged," he said. "We feel violated. And we feel there's nothing we can do because they're building as of right."
Like others on the walk, John Cates, a painter and actor, lovingly tends his garden. "The main thing we're worried about is that we're going to lose our sunlight," he said.
Preservationists are also angry at Mr. Sheffer for the gutting of the Thalia's Art Moderne interior, since they believed he intended to preserve it. Mr. Sheffer said that what he promised to preserve was the name, nature and function of the Thalia. But he added that distinctive architectural features like fountains, art glass, signs and tiles had been salvaged for eventual reuse.
The renovation of Symphony Space and the Thalia is designed by James Stewart Polshek, who said he took the job because it offered the "opportunity for Symphony Space to express itself as an independent, progressive, vital cultural institution."
Naturally, that has caused some tension with Mr. Kondylis, whose design for the apartment building hearkens back to the Upper West Side's Art Deco past. "Even though it stands out -- and I believe the identity of Symphony Space should stand out -- it should somehow be sympathetic to the rest of the building," Mr. Kondylis said.
Mr. Sheffer is confident that esthetic differences can be resolved. But it is obvious that he looks forward to the end of his unsought 15-year career as real estate developer. "I would rather have spent the time writing and directing," he said.
And yet, standing on the stage of Symphony Space, surveying the oddly proportioned but undeniably gemutlich auditorium, Mr. Sheffer said: "Look at this place. I don't regret saving it for a moment -- even if it did inconvenience some engineers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three of the five steel girders that were hoisted into position on July 10, spanning the roof of the Symphony Space auditorium. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A nearly 109-foot-long steel girder being hoisted by a crane from a flatbed trailer parked at Broadway and 94th Street, into position atop Symphony Space. The girder is one of five erected July 10 to span the auditorium. Watching the girders rise were, from left: Arthur Rubinstein of Skyline Steel (white hard hat, arms folded); Joseph Zelazny of Kreisler Borg Florman (white hard hat, hands in pockets); Jacob S. Grossman of Rosenwasser/Grossman (dark hard hat and sunglasses, over Mr. Zelazny's shoulder); Jeff T. Blau of Related Companies (hatless); Isaiah Sheffer of Symphony Space (at center, white hard hat); Tom McClain of Seamus Henchy (over Mr. Sheffer's shoulder); Mr. Sheffer's wife, Ethel (T-shirt); Allan Miller and Joanne Cossa of Symphony Space. The silhouetted figure atop the girder is Steve Coffin, an ironworker, as he guided another girder into position. In the left foreground is the angled skylight that the girders have to clear. At center is the concrete wall on which they rest. Steel columns, rising from the foundations to support the girders, were erected in holes chopped through the floor and ceiling of Symphony Space. (Photographs by NORMAN Y. LONO for The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 
Diagram: "Full House" -- Diagram shows the outline of the 22-story apartment building that is to rise beside and above the existing Symphony Space auditorium, as well as the location of the giant girders that make the new structure possible. Also shown are the cottages of Pomander Walk next door. (John Papasian/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SYMPHONY SPACE (NYC CULTURAL CENTER); RELATED COMPANIES; COSTAS KONDYLIS ASSOCIATES RELATED COS LP (81%); SYMPHONY SPACE (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: SYMPHONY SPACE (NYC CULTURAL CENTER); RELATED COMPANIES; COSTAS KONDYLIS ASSOCIATES SYMPHONY SPACE (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); THEATER (90%); FUNDRAISING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); WINTER SPORTS (55%); ICE SKATING (55%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



407 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 14; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: DESTINATIONS;
From the Fields to a Parking Lot Near You

BYLINE: By JOSEPH D'AGNESE 

 BODY:
"WE grow for taste!" blared the sign on Sy and Elida Griskonis's truck, parked one recent Thursday in the lot behind the Fleet Bank in Livingston. The couple had arrived early to stake out their spot and display produce and plants grown on their 60-acre farm in Blairstown. From arugula to zucchini, basil to thyme, nasturtiums to hot pepper plants, they had it all. As a customer paid for her selections, the burly, bearded Mr. Griskonis couldn't help but boast, "The lettuce was cut 24 hours ago."
When was the last time a supermarket made such a claim? 
 "This is how we develop our income," Mr. Griskonis said later. "If it weren't for these markets, we wouldn't be able to stay in New Jersey."
Farmers' market season has arrived, and throughout the state, shoppers are heading to parking lots surrounding city halls, banks, train stations and schools to buy food directly from the people who till the soil. For citizens of Livingston, the opening of the market this year is a long-awaited triumph. "We've wanted one here for a long time," said Susie Fishbein, a resident. "We live in New Jersey and it's so nice to buy the produce that they're famous for right here in my backyard -- my bank's backyard."
As recently as the early 1990's, many of the northern suburbs, not to mention such cities as Newark, Jersey City and Hoboken, lacked such markets. In fact, a group of homeowners who tried to start a market in Madison back then encountered resistance from City Hall and from local supermarkets that feared unfair competition. But today, the New Jersey Council of Farmers and Communities, formed seven years ago following the establishment of fledgling markets in Monclair, Millburn and Madison, boasts a roster of 32 markets, five of them new this year.
The council acts as a kind of community matchmaker, pairing vendors with cities and towns. Early in the season, inspectors visit farms to verify that each grower is planting enough crops to meet its market commitments. Later, inspectors visit markets to certify that no produce of dubious origin has appeared en route.
Thanks to the markets, farmers can reap retail prices on products they would normally sell to wholesalers at lower prices. And customers can add farm-fresh produce to their summer tables. A win-win situation.
But finer benefits lurk beyond the easy economics. Wander the makeshift stalls and striped awnings at these so-called "urban markets," and you will spot community activity seldom found in supermarkets. Customers visit with neighbors. Children nibble fruit and play among the tables as Mom and Dad shop. Farmers sell produce, chatting, unloading, tidying and occasionally muttering about the lack of rain. And through it all, bunches, pints, quarts of Jersey-grown produce disappear into brown paper bags.
At the Livingston market, Kim LaPrete and her brother James offered 35 types of baked goods, from anisette toast to loaves of challah. In the course of the season the LaPrete family bakery in Clifton, Baker's Bounty, attends three other farmers' markets in the state. Two full-time bakers and five family members from 4 P.M. to 11 A.M. That loaf of raisin bread in the counter box, for example, came out of the oven sometime this morning.
As Ms. LaPrete worked in her booth, a customer asked, "Do you have anything that's sugar-free?" Mr. LaPrete offered one of their dietetic muffins, but his sister pointed out that almost all the family's breads -- 12 types, including round loaves, rings, and twists -- are sugar-free, and low in salt, too.
At a market in Madison the same day, Harriet Buckner, who works at Alstede's Farms in Chester, arranged turnips, radishes, beets and spinach in wicker baskets for an effect that more resembled a still life than a commercial display. On nearby table, delicately striped gooseberries cooled their heels beside gleaming red currants. Mrs. Buckner, who planted some of the seeds for these plants herself, blushed when a visitor complimented her work. "I used to be an art major," she said. "I tend to look at it as a painting, I guess."
Mrs. Buckner's daughter, Emily, 13, in a blue Alstede's T-shirt, shorts and flip-flops, rang up sales while Mom greeted customers. "This is a good market," Mrs. Buckner said between setting out bunches of lettuce. "You really get to know people. Last year, in our last week, some customers were bringing me gifts to say goodbye."
That parting moment is still a way off. For now, the sport utility vehicles and Volvos will head to the weekly market in Madison in search of something fresh but fleeting: honest produce plucked from local soil.
In the dead of winter, supermarkets do sell tomatoes and corn, albeit blander versions of the summer crop. For a culture used to this kind of out-of-season convenience, said Barbara Stevenson, vice president of the farmers and communities council, farmers' markets can be something of an education. "It's fun to watch the produce change with the seasons," she said. "In a few weeks, you'll see. They start having melons and sweet peppers and peaches."
But each turn of the growing season also means leaving well-loved crops behind. At his table in Livingston, a Port Murray farmer named James Kesler sold three types of cherries from his 146-acre orchard. In the coming weeks, he will offer apricots, plums, peaches, pears and apples. But on this day the pints and quarts on his folding table held the bounty of a crop that in New Jersey lasts a mere two weeks, at best: deep-red bings, yellow-tinged Queen Annes and tiny, almost translucent, crimson sour cherries.
Now and then, Mr. Kesler, 65, a broad-shouldered man in red suspenders, would let a customer try one or two of his berrries. They were firm, dripping with juice, and very sweet. "That's the last of them," he reminded people. "You can't get fruit this good unless it was just picked off a tree."
Livington Farmers' Market, Fleet Bank parking lot at 92 South Livingston Avenue. Thursdays noon to 6 P.M. The market began July 1 and will run till Oct. 28. For information, call: (973) 992-8080.
Madison Farmers' Market: July 1 to Oct. 28, the market will be held at Madison High School parking lot on Ridgedale Avenue; Sept. 9 to Oct. 28, the market will be held from at the community pool on Rosedale Avenue. Both markets operate Thursdays, 3:30 to 7:30 P.M. For information, call: (973) 593-8496.
For a copy of the 1999 Farmers Market Weekly Schedule, send a self-addressed, stamped No. 10 envelope to The New Jersey Council of Farmers and Communities, Post Office Box 853, Millburn, N.J. 07041. On line, visit www.state.nj.us/agriculture/publ.htm and click on "NJ Roadside and Urban Markets Directory."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The state Council of Farmers and Communities has helped create 32 "urban markets" by matching farmers and other food producers with cities and towns. Shown are a market in Montclair, right, and in Fair Lawn. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: FLEET BANK-NH (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARM STANDS FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); CITY LIFE (67%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (53%); 

PERSON: D'AGNESE, JOSEPH KIM LAPRETE (73%); HARRIET BUCKNER (71%); ELIDA GRISKONIS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



408 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: A Skirmish Over the Hepatitis B Vaccination

BYLINE: By LISA SUHAY 

 BODY:
FOR as long as the vaccine for Hepatitis B has been in general use, some parents have been fighting it.
Now it is New Jersey's turn. 
 By late June -- the last legislative session before the summer recess -- a measure making the Hepatitis B vaccine mandatory for all school age children had already passed the State Assembly and was headed for a Senate vote.
Until that time, the State Department of Health had supported the measure. But then the Senate added an amendment, introduced by State Senator C. Louis Bassano, a Republican from Union, that would have allowed parents to decide whether to inoculate their children for Hepatitis B -- usually transmitted through sexual contact or intravenuous drug use -- and the measure was left off the legislative calendar.
At that point, state health officials chose to take the issue out of the hands of legislators and began writing a rule requiring the vaccination -- without allowing parents the option of refusing.
Mr. Bassano put it this way in a telephone interview: "They wanted the summer to write it themselves using the power to make rules and regulations to subvert the legislative process. They didn't want parents to have a choice and this was the way to achieve that goal."
Assemblyman John Wisniewski, a Democrat from Sayreville who was co-sponsor of the bill, said in a telephone interview: "The language in the amendment was just too broad. It almost seemed to negate the mandate. Still, I would have continued to support it if the Health Department had not made the decision to write it while the Senate was out of session for the summer. After all, something is better than nothing."
Mr. Bassano and some parents now say they are prepared to fight the department's mandate and demand public hearings on the basis of medical concerns and the right of parental choice.
"We're not talking about a childhood disease here," Senator Bassano said. "This is an attempt to deal with the problems faced by drug users, homeless people and those who keep company with hookers."
He said the health department supported the legislation until he added the amendment allowing parents a philosophical objection. Currently in New Jersey, parents can claim only a religious objection to vaccination.
Mr. Bassano said mandating the vaccine raised several questions that had to be addressed through the legislative process.
"Some parents in my constituency have concerns over the safety record of this vaccine," he said. "They say giving this vaccine to children is more risk than benefit. These questions were asked of me by parents and I think they should be considered publicly."
The Hepatitis B vaccine was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1986, and the advisory committee on immunization practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a recommendation for universal use of the vaccine in newborns and children in 1991.
The vaccination is now mandatory in 42 states -- including New York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Delaware. But for as long as the vaccine has been used, some parents have fought it.
The National Vaccine Information Center, a parents' group in Washington, issued a report last year stating that of the millions of children born last year in the United States, a total of 24,775 adverse events, including 439 deaths, said to be linked to the vaccine were reported to the Federal drug agency.
Barbara Loe Fisher, a co-founder of the group, said the raw numbers of reported adverse effects linked the vaccine to long-term "multiple sclerosis-like symptoms, including joint pain, and cognitive problems."
But a spokeswoman for the F.D.A., Lenore Gelb, cautioned against drawing conclusions from the data.
"We would have to separate out the reports filed from those complaints that we found to be really vaccine related," Ms. Gelb said. "There are a lot of things that happen to children that could account for the damage in the claims filed."
Aside from concerns over ailments possibly related to the vaccine, Senator Bassano said the number of reported cases of Hepatitis B among children in the state was too low to justify a mass vaccination.
He cited New Jersey Department of Education records for children, from birth to age 18, that showed only three cases of Hepatitis B among the state's children in 1997. In two cases, he said, the victims were 15 and the third was 18.
Speaking of the rules being drawn up by the Health Department, Mr. Bassano said: "They are trying to treat the wrong set of people with this vaccine. They can't reach the adults through education, so this is their solution. I think it is a poor one."
But Marilyn Riley, a department spokeswoman, said the mandate was part of a larger effort to update the state's vaccination rules.
"This is being done because all the department's vaccination rules are about to sunset in April of 2000," Ms. Riley said, referring to when the rules would expire. "That made it a good time to include the Hepatitis B vaccine in with the others."
She said the mandate would go through the Public Health Council and should be released in the next several months. "There is a 30-day period for public comment once it's written," she said.
But Mr. Bassano said that was not good enough, contending that his constituency wanted to add the parental choice amendment or stop the mandate.
While the New Jersey mandate will require all children be vaccinated against Hepatitis B by the time they reach school age, or age 5, Ms. Reynolds said hospitals had adopted the practice of urging parents to immunize their children at birth.
"I think it's because the baby is right there where they have more control over the situation," she said. "They were testing the mothers for the disease and deciding on a case-by-case basis about the babies. Now, I guess they just decided to skip testing the mothers and just immunize all the babies."
According to Ms. Reynolds, the Hepatitis B vaccine is the only inoculation given at birth. Children then get booster shots, one at 2 months of age and another at 4 months.
All other immunizations -- including measles mumps and rubella (MMR), diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DPT), polio (orally administered) and Hepatitis A and Influenza B and chicken pox -- are administered at 2 months and again at 4 months, 8 months and 10 months.
"Once the level of availability and use of a certain vaccine becomes routine and people get used to it, then states begin to mandate it," Ms. Reynolds said. "Since so many states are suddenly making these mandates, the Hepatitis B vaccine must have reached that sort of comfort level with the general public."
She added: "We cannot say that vaccines are 100 percent safe. We cannot say they are 100 percent effective. We can say that the benefits outweigh the risks.
Consider the risk from the diseases themselves. We cannot risk the return of these diseases."
But Jackie French of Cranford is not sure.
Mrs. French is the mother of three children aged 9, 6 and 2. She said her youngest child, Patrick, suffered permanent damage after receiving his third booster for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis.
Now she makes it her business to investigate whatever vaccine is proposed for mandatory use.
It was Mrs. French, pleading with Mr. Bassano, that led the Senator to look further into the issue and to draft the amendment allowing parents to forgo the vaccination based on philosophical objections.
"We were doing something to protect our child from disease and instead it has destroyed our lives," Mrs. French said.
Michael Belkin, a financial and economic forecaster from Manhattan, has been at the forefront of the fight against the Hepatitis B vaccine since the death of his 5-week-old daughter Lyla Rose in September 1998.
In May, Mr. Belkin was the lead witness in Congressional hearings into the Hepatitis B vaccine. He said his daughter became fussy after the vaccination, went to sleep and never woke up.
He said an autopsy ruled out choking, but found swelling of the brain. "Look in any neurology textbook and it will tell you about post-vaccinal encephalomyelitis, brain swelling following vaccination," Mr. Belkin said. "It can happen with any vaccination."
He called the Hepatitis B vaccine "the Ford Pinto of the vaccine world with the exploding gas tank. It should not be given to newborns or small children."
Sue Collins of Long Hill Township presents the kind situation that the state Department of Health worries about. She does not vaccinate her son for any disease, and plans to educate him at home.
Mrs. Collins said that after reading about the possible adverse effects associated with vaccinations, she chose not to inoculate her son Zachary, now 3, for anything.
Mrs. Collins, who runs a support group called Freedom of Vaccine Choice, said: "A lot of people don't want to hear about the risks. They don't want to buck the system. They would rather paint us as crazies or fanatics, when we are simply asking for the right to make an informed decision."
For her part, Mrs. French said that while she would never again immunize a child for any disease, she was not asking other parents to adopt her attitude.
"What I want is for parents to ask more questions and have the freedom to make the decision for themselves once they have learned all they can," she said. "Parents shouldn't have to lie to the government claiming some religious belief when they really object to the safety of the vaccine or the rational behind it."
 
Delay Urged for Vaccine With a Trace of Mercury
CHILDREN are vaccinated for their own good. In the case of vaccinations that contain a mercury preservative, health experts say that the number of shots given to small children may amount to too much of a good thing.
As part of the Food and Drug Administration's modernization act of 1997, the Federal agency was required to review and assess the risks of all food and drugs containing mercury.
What they found was that the preservative Thimerosal (methyl mercury) is present in such inactive, or nonlive vaccines, as those for Hepatitis B, diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DTAP) and Hepatitis A and Influenza B. It is not present in live vaccines like measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and chicken pox.
The drug agency then shared that information with the World Health Organization and the American Academy of Pediatrics.
Earlier this month, the pediatrics organization and the Public Health Service put out a joint news release that might have confused some parents.
On the one hand, parents were assured: "There are no data or evidence of any harm caused by the level of exposure that some children may have encountered in following the existing immunization schedule. Infants and children who have received Thimerosal-containing vaccines do not need to be tested for mercury exposure."
But the bulletin went on to say, "The recognition that some children could be exposed to a cumulative level of mercury over the first six months of life that exceeds one of the Federal guidelines on methyl mercury now requires a weighing of two different types of risks when vaccinating infants."
The risks, according to the release, include the possibility of contracting of a damaging or deadly disease through nonvaccination or facing the "unknown and probably much smaller risk, if any, of neurodevelopmental effects posed by exposure to Thimerosal."
A spokeswoman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Barbara Reynolds, said: "These vaccines have had mercury in them since the 1940's. The concern is not with individual vaccines, which are well within the recommended limits, but with the effect of giving multiple vaccines to children within the first six months of life. It is primarily of concern for low-birth-weight babies."
In the joint bulletin, the health service and the pediatrics organization recommended that the Hepatitis B vaccine, currently administered to newborns while still in the hospital, be delayed from birth until between 2 and 6 months.
As a result of the announcement, some states recently announced they would revamp vaccination schedules or at least consider the possibility.
On July 9, health officials in New Mexico asked parents to wait until children were between 2 and 6 months before administering the Hepatitis B vaccine, commonly given at birth. And last Monday, officials at with the New York State Health Department gathered to discuss the state's vaccination policy, a spokeswoman said.
"The schedule is flexible, and we are looking into altering it to recommend that the Hepatitis B shot not be given to newborns but to children closer to 6 months of age," said the spokeswoman, Kristine Smith.
The approach being taken by the centers is a request to drug companies to manufacture a mercury-free vaccine, a development that Ms. Reynolds said was more than a year off.
In the meantime, she said, "we recommend that children continue to adhere to their current immunization schedule." LISA SUHAY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The vaccine for Hepatitis B is mandatory in 42 states. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Jackie French -- with her husband Tim and two of her children, Patrick, 2 1/2, and Sean, 9 -- investigates vaccines proposed for mandatory use since Patrick suffered permanent damage after receiving his third booster for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis. Susan Collins of Long Hill Township presents the kind situation that the state Department of Health fears: she has never vaccinated her son Zachary for any disease. (Photographs by Linda Rosier for The York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HEPATITIS; VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION HEPATITIS (93%); HEPATITIS B (93%); VACCINES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); PARENTING (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: SUHAY, LISA C LOUIS BASSANO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



409 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSINESS WORLD;
AnotherEntry for King of the Sky

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil

 BODY:
FROM Mario Garnero's penthouse office in a skyscraper he built here, the view invokes the way Mario de Andrade, Brazil's modernist writer, once described this city -- "a great mouth with a thousand teeth." In almost every direction, crops of steep structures jut out of the concrete in a show of the magnitude of Sao Paulo, the third-largest metropolis in the world, after Tokyo and Mexico City.
But Mr. Garnero, 61, a business tycoon with interests ranging from waste treatment to telecommunications, plans his newest and grandest venture for a spot eclipsed by this jagged skyline, in the decrepit, neglected downtown district where the city's first high-rises were built in the 1920's. There he hopes to build the world's tallest skyscraper, 1,622 feet high. Modeled on the Vedic temples of India, it would surpass the 1,483-foot Petronas Twin Towers of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
 "This building will be the symbol of Sao Paulo's new era, of a post-industrial Sao Paulo in a league with the world's great cities," Mr. Garnero said.
To compete with tallest-building projects that are planned or under way on other continents, Mr. Garnero, a tall man himself, with a penchant for pinstriped suits, is teaming up with the investment arm of the followers of the Indian-born guru, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. The Maharishi Global Development fund, whose assets are gathered mainly from contributions by practitioners of the guru's twice-a-day meditation methods, has agreed to be the main investor in the project, with a role in overseeing its design. The Maharishi fund and Mr. Garnero hired Minoru Yamasaki Associates, the architectural firm based in Rochester Hills, Mich., that conceived the World Trade Center in Manhattan.
The resulting design for the 103-story Sao Paulo Tower, unveiled in May, has stirred up a tempest. Stylistically, it has nothing in common with the postmodern skyscrapers erected here during the relative economic calm of the 1990's, nor does it resemble the drab high-rises of earlier decades, many of which seem better suited to Eastern Europe under Communism than to subtropical southeastern Brazil.
Inside the Sao Paulo Tower, which will look something like a layered pyramid with ornate touches, will be hotels, offices, residential apartments, a convention center, a university and, during the workday, about 50,000 people, Mr. Garnero said. At the top will be a restaurant within a golden crown.
Aside from the surprise expressed by some architects over the unusual design, most critical views center on the project's contribution to a troubling trend -- the confining of more and more aspects of public life within buildings. In crime-plagued Sao Paulo, better-off residents increasingly retreat into gated communities and guarded shopping malls.
"This is a fortress, a mega-intervention in a city dying for public space," said Raquel Rolnik, an architecture professor at the Catholic University of Campinas.
Another well-known expert, the urban planner Jorge Wilheim, said, "We need this building like we need a hole in our head."
Other Brazilian architects defend the project, saying it could bring new creative energy and international attention to Sao Paulo. "This building would catalyze popular hope," said Edison Musa, the president of a national association of architects and chairman for Latin America of the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. Mr. Musa likened the Sao Paulo Tower to American skyscrapers, including the Empire State Building, that were finished during the Depression. "It is an affirmation of our national capacity," he said.
BRAZIL has long had faith in the idea that the design of its buildings and cities can bring positive change. This thinking was behind the construction 40 years ago of a new capital, Brasilia, deep in the savannas of the country's interior. And just as the inventors of Brasilia have defended their creation from criticism that it is artificial and sterile, so the architects of the Sao Paulo project stand by their design.
"We didn't want a cookie-cutter repeat of other tall buildings," said Henry Guthard, senior vice president of Minoru Yamasaki. "When seen silhouetted against the sky, this building will be striking."
As the controversy unfolds over the building's design and its eventual impact on the city's crazy-quilt sprawl, a more urgent issue presses: financing. The Maharishi fund, which manages assets of roughly $600 million, is committed to raising money through donations, borrowing and returns on its investments to provide half the estimated $1.6 billion needed to complete the building. If construction is to begin as planned in January, the fund's managers and Mr. Garnero will have to drum up the other half quickly.
"Money is currently so expensive that one has to wonder where they will get it," said Daniel Citron, the chief financial officer of Brazil Realty S.A., a large developer of commercial real estate here. Indeed, many people in Sao Paulo's real estate industry have expressed doubt whether the project can get off the ground at a time when domestic interest rates for real estate lending are above 25 percent.
There are also questions about the supply of tenants, given the market's doldrums as the country just begins to emerge from recession.
If the project is built, there are chances it will not retain the title of tallest building for very long. Investors in Shanghai; Taipei, Taiwan, and Melbourne, Australia, are also competing to erect the world's tallest building. A real estate firm in Chicago, where the Sears Tower reigned as the world's tallest until 1996, unveiled plans last month for another contender, although, at 1,537 feet, it would be shorter than Mr. Garnero's.
That hasn't kept Mr. Garnero from knocking with gusto on the doors of potential partners. He hopes to interest Brazilian investment firms and pension funds that have invested in other developments in Sao Paulo.
So far, the attention attracted by the project has helped renovate the public image of Mr. Garnero and his business empire, gathered under the merchant bank Brasilinvest. Brazil's highest court recently cleared Mr. Garnero of accusations of fraudulent financial transactions in the 1980's.
The managers of the Maharishi fund are confident about the plans. "There are always people who think small," said Benjamin Feldman, a member of the fund's board who is responsible for its activities in Latin America. "Any great endeavor is criticized by people who have no understanding of it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The proposed Sao Paulo Tower, top, alludes on a huge scale to India's Vedic temples. Mario Garnero is the businessman behind the plan. (Paulo Fridman for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Looking Up"
A developer in Brazil hopes to build the world's tallest skyscraper. Here are the three current leaders in the competition, and two planned buildings, including the one in Brazil, that would be taller.
 
Jin Mao Building: Shanghai -- 1,380 Ft.
Sears Tower: Chicago -- 1,450 Ft.
Petronas Towers: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia -- 1,483 Ft.
7 South Dearborn: Chicago -- 1,537 Ft.
Sao Paulo Tower: Sao Paulo, Brazil -- 1,622 Ft.
 
*The height of a building, as determined by the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, is measured from the sidewalk level of the main entrance to the structural top of the building. This includes spires like those on the Petronas Towers, but not television antennas like those on the Sears Tower and the proposed 7 South Dearborn in Chicago.

(Sources: Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat; Skidmore, Ownings & Merrill; Minoru Yamasaki Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); INDIA (90%); EUROPE (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MAHARISHI GLOBAL DEVELOPMENTS; MINORU YAMASAKI ASSOCIATES MINORU YAMASAKI ASSOCIATES INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAHARISHI GLOBAL DEVELOPMENTS; MINORU YAMASAKI ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO (BRAZIL); INDIA; BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); INDIA (90%); EUROPE (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); WRITERS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); MEDITATION (69%); RESTAURANTS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; GARNERO, MARIO MINORU YAMASAKI (59%); MAHARISHI MAHESH YOGI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



410 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: CALLINGS;
This Broker Really Takes A Long View

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN; Laura Pedersen-Pietersen is a Manhattan author and public speaker. Her column profiling people whose work is their passion appears the third Sunday of each month.
E-mail: yourmind@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I CAN'T see what all the fuss is about," said Frank W. Fletcher, a 95-year-old stockbroker. "My father was pushing a hand mower well into his 90's."
And the way things are going in the workplace, there may soon be no fuss whatsoever about people toiling into their 90's -- or even their 100's. Not only are Americans living and working longer, but in some fields, older workers are even being sought out. 
 Consider the investment business, where a stampeding bull market has produced legions of silver-haired millionaires-next-door. Many older investors prefer to work with a broker of their own generation, said David W. Wiley 3d, 44, who is Mr. Fletcher's boss at Wiley Bros./Aintree Capital, a brokerage firm in Nashville.
Recruiting the elderly is not just a brokerage-business phenomenon. Seventy-something models are hired to appear in glossy makeup ads aimed at great-grandmothers on the go, and 60-year-old engineers are being hauled out of retirement by the cruise-ship-full to work on Year 2000 problems. (After all, they installed the stuff.)
 Mr. Fletcher was born on Oct. 3, 1903, four months after an engineer named Henry formed the Ford Motor Company and 10 weeks before Orville Wright made that famous flight. When folks muttered about "the Depression" back then, they meant the four years after the Panic of 1893.
In 1920, when Mr. Fletcher was a teen-ager, the market crashed again, leaving four million people out of work. "A dress rehearsal for the big one," he said.
The big crash, in 1929, came just four weeks after he married -- and the very week that he and his bride, Mary, visited the New York Stock Exchange. "The Government did all the wrong things back then -- we needed Alan Greenspan," said Mr. Fletcher, an unabashed admirer of the current Federal Reserve chairman.
After graduating from Vanderbilt University in 1925, Mr. Fletcher joined his family's wholesale food business, soon becoming president and staying until the company was sold in 1954. That year, at 51, Mr. Fletcher started his second career, joining the Eisenhower Administration as deputy director of the Agency for International Development. His first overseas posting, in Amman, Jordan, coincided with the Suez crisis. "It wasn't exactly the time or place to be wearing an 'I like Ike' button," he said.
In 1959, he returned to Nashville, to work on the Presidential campaign of Richard M. Nixon. But after John F. Kennedy's inauguration in 1961, he again had to decide what to do with the rest of his life. Some friends were ready to pull out the golf clubs, but retirement at 58 held no appeal for him.
He became an insurance salesman. "I gave it a year," he recalled, "but selling insurance just didn't fit my personality." A friend suggested the investment business and invited him to join Aintree Capital.
There, in 1962, he began his fourth career. "I loved this business from the start," he said. "And the good thing about it is that you can be a broker while you play golf. In fact, people here expect it of you."
He dispenses investment advice -- his current favorite stocks are Lincoln National Life, Lucent Technologies and BellSouth -- but also career advice. To the young (anyone under 90), he says, "Do something you enjoy, and you'll probably be successful."
Mr. Fletcher is his own best example. "Every day something new is happening with the markets," he said, "so it's always exciting to me, never boring."
His son, Frank Jr., 56, a stockbroker in Greenville, S.C., offers another perspective. "When you're married to a Nashville social queen, as he's been for decades, you'd better find a job to go to every day, or you'll be out doing yard work before you know it," the younger Mr. Fletcher said. Whatever the reason, Frank Sr. has clearly had a successful marriage. He and Mary, now 91, will celebrate their 70th anniversary this fall.
IN the meantime, there's work to be done. And it's not always a cakewalk.
Mr. Fletcher said that, as a broker, there are disadvantages to getting old. "Customers have died or turned their affairs over to banks and investment companies," he said. "And the young people coming up want to deal with people in their own social circle."
But Mr. Wiley, Mr. Fletcher's boss, sees many pluses. "Frank has a great sense of humor," he said, "and he's as mentally effective as any 40-year-old, and sometimes more so." Mr. Wiley said older workers add continuity and a much-needed long-term perspective about the markets.
A co-worker, J. Anthony Curcio, said: "He's a voracious consumer of financial commentary. Every morning he reads the business papers with a four-inch magnifying glass, and if he sees an article that would be of interest to another broker he takes it right to them."
Mr. Fletcher has no plans to retire, but he acknowledges that there are some things outside work that he can no longer manage. "I can't play golf anymore, I can't drink as much as I'd like and there's one other thing I can't do -- but I can't remember what it is, so I guess it doesn't matter."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At 95, Frank W. Fletcher is older than most of the buildings he passes on his way to work as a stockbroker at Wiley Bros./Aintree Capital, a firm in Nashville. (Jana Curcio for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (72%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (91%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (72%); 

COMPANY: WILEY BROS/AINTREE CAPITAL FORD MOTOR CO (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILEY BROS/AINTREE CAPITAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (72%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%); AMMAN, JORDAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: AGED; STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); OLDER WORKERS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); BONDS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (51%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FLETCHER, FRANK W JOHN F KENNEDY (62%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); RICHARD NIXON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



411 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
The Plight Of the Polite

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
CAN you be a real New Yorker if you can't kvetch?
Competitive complaining is the city's favorite sport. Eavesdrop anywhere New Yorkers gather -- in the subway, in stores, in line waiting for the next working A.T.M. -- and you are bound to hear them playing can-you-top-this, in tones that range from irritation to outrage. 
 But when my fellow Gothamites are riffing on crazy cabbies or subway psychos or traffic or tourists or rats or Rudy, not to mention everything that has happened to them in the last 72 hours, I tend to be tongue tied.
Call it the plight of the polite. Raised from birth to say, "Fine, thank you, how are you?" I find it hard to complain. It is never the winter of my discontent, or the spring or the summer, either.
Such cheeriness, I have discovered, makes other New Yorkers nervous. They think I'm hiding something.
The first time I met a certain senior city official, we were in the middle of discussing some arcane economic data when he suddenly barked, "Why are you so smiley?" He nodded at my explanation -- a naturally sunny disposition -- but made it clear he didn't buy it.
When I went to his next news conference, I made sure to ask a rude question, so that he would stop thinking I'm a space alien. We've gotten along fine ever since.
If you are preternaturally polite, New Yorkers tend to take you for a simp, a sap or, worst of all, an out-of-towner. My friend Doreen, who is originally from Illinois, says that when she takes taxis, the drivers routinely say, "You're not from around here, are you?"
The giveaway? "You said please." Ooooops.
Doreen says she cannot help it, and neither can I. Even when I was in labor, according to my husband, I said please and thank you to all the doctors and nurses, even when they were informing me that I could not have an epidural painkiller, after all. And when they asked me how I was feeling, I said, "Fine, thank you, how are you?" Mercifully, I can't remember.
On the job, being whine-deprived is a handicap. After all, "If you aren't complaining, how will they know you're working?" asks my pal Allan, who is a master of the rant-and-rave. Fortunately, for reporters politeness is not as much of a problem as you might expect. It's amazing what people will say if you just murmur, "Oh, really?" and let them ramble on.
Why am I complaint-challenged? I really am a New Yorker. I grew up in a suburb just outside the city, and have spent most of my adult life in Manhattan. I'm as irony-infused as the next person, as cynical, sarcastic, smart-mouthed. People outside the city almost always peg me as a New Yorker (though that may be the all-black wardrobe). But in the five boroughs, I'm Little Mary Sunshine. A scary possibility is that I have lived a charmed life, and so have nothing to gripe about -- yet.
On the other hand, I go to the dentist, get called for jury duty and stand in line at Worth Street for my driver's license, just like other people. And I just got my first speeding ticket.
It's genetic, says my husband, who in our household is in charge of worrying, complaining and cooking. (I try to be decorative, and to make the bed.)
It is true that my grandmother has reached the age of 93 in large part by refusing to acknowledge the unpleasant. Though she has been living in and around New York since the days of speakeasies, it has not rubbed off on her. Grandmother's idea of criticism is to call someone "a difficult individual." (Translation: hell on toast.)
I like to think that studying history has something to do with it. After all, a century ago New York was packed with starving children, and people died of injuries scarcely more serious than a hangnail. Compared to those days, who in the city isn't better off?
But ever since I said those things at a dinner party and got branded as a weirdo, and possibly a right-wing Republican, I have tried to adopt protective coloration.
I have learned to swear like a sailor, so I can sound outraged even when I am only irked. It has become almost second nature to make rude gestures at cars that run red lights, and to holler, "Excuse me!" when somebody slams me in a subway scrum. I even hang up on strangers who call me at home (though not, I confess, without saying "No, thank you.").
But I'm not sure that I'm setting the right example for my 3-year-old daughter, Elizabeth, who refers to New York as "my city" (when she's not calling it You Nork). The other day, when a neighbor stopped in the lobby to ask Elizabeth how she was, I heard her tiny, piping voice reply, "Fine, thank you, how are you?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: T M I (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TRENDS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



412 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES;
Joining PeaceCorps Inc.

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN the past, it was easy to spot Peace Corps volunteers. They wore Birkenstocks and loose-fitting, gauzy garb. They often had wide-eyed notions of saving the world. To many of them, "capitalism" was a four-letter word.
No more. Today's Peace Corps volunteers -- 80 percent of whom are in their 20's -- still want to help the world, but they also want to help themselves. Many volunteers have business degrees and view the Peace Corps as a two-year internship, culminating with a return home to a job with a top company. What better way to gain experience than by helping a developing nation get its corporate feet on the ground? 
 "I'm definitely joining to improve my skills for a better job," said Beth Atkinson, 22, who recently received a bachelor's degree in business administration from Indiana Wesleyan University. Next month, she heads for Mali in West Africa to help craftsmen and entrepreneurs form businesses. "You hear a lot of talk about global business, and I thought there's no better way to go than this," she said.
Richard Campbell, now 28, has similar feelings. After getting a bachelor's degree in finance in 1993 from Morehouse College in Atlanta, Mr. Campbell became a loan analyst for Nationsbank in Nashville. He wasn't thinking about joining the Peace Corps. "It was for people who couldn't find jobs," he said.
Then a college friend told him that he was going to Nairobi as a business consultant for the Peace Corps. Mr. Campbell realized that the Peace Corps offered the opportunity for foreign work experience and the chance to explore his African-American roots. Mr. Campbell enlisted and spent two years setting up village banks in Mali. A month after returning to the United States in August 1996, he entered the M.B.A. program at Howard University, completing it in May 1998. Today, he is a consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Washington, working on the financial statements of the Agency for International Development. "I had to compete to get that project, and the Peace Corps experience helped me win it," he said. "You can get real international business experience without having to slave in an office for a number of years."
About 850 of the nearly 6,600 Peace Corps volunteers now work with businesses, and the number is growing, said Mark Gearan, the Peace Corps director, though the organization's fluid nature makes specific numbers hard to come by. An 8 percent budget increase in the current fiscal year, to $240 million, will permit recruiting of an additional 52 business consultants.
Two schools have also become involved. Four years ago, the University of the Pacific and the Monterey Institute of International Studies, both in California, started M.B.A. programs in conjunction with the Peace Corps. In the programs, a half-dozen students spend their first semester or two on campus, then two years with the Peace Corps in a developing country, and then a final semester or two back in the United States.
Why the new interest in the Peace Corps? Are young people turning more idealistic?
"I once heard a volunteer asked, 'Are you doing this to pad your resume or are you a do-gooder?' " Mr. Gearan recalled. "And he said, 'Both.' There's a question of wanting to do well and wanting to do good at the same time."
For all the stories of money-grubbing buccaneers, business graduates are often idealistic. "There's a feeling among young people today that they're going to make a better product and help the world," said David Strauss, a principal with Art and Science Group, a consulting firm in Baltimore that examines student trends. "They see themselves as visionaries."
Some former volunteers also see the Peace Corps as a way to learn what they don't want to do. Andy Drennan, 32, joined after receiving a master's degree in international marketing from Thunderbird University in Glendale, Ariz. He turned down a corporate position to go to Chile for two years. "My friends were getting high-paying jobs in investment banking and thought I was crazy, but I wanted to see what it was like in a nonprofit organization," he said. When he returned, he took a job as an account executive with Union Carbide in Somerset, N.J.
"I realized that nonprofit wasn't for me," he said. "It didn't pay enough."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MALI (92%); KENYA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (76%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (55%); 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%); PEACE CORPS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MALI (92%); KENYA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (76%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NAIROBI, KENYA (55%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (88%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); 

PERSON: RICHARD CAMPBELL (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



413 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 3; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1915 words

HEADLINE: For Him: The Perfect Lawn Is a Status Symbol Again

BYLINE: By TOM CONNOR 

 BODY:
CAN I walk on it?" first-time visitors often ask Robert Esernio as they stare at his property in Mahopac, N.Y. There's no mistaking Mr. Esernio's lawn. In a development of similar new houses with mostly burnt, brown lawns lumpy from the excavator's backhoe, his is the really green, rolling, luxuriant one, the one with mowing lines like straight brush strokes up and down a fine piece of suede.
The question strikes Mr. Esernio as both absurd and entirely appropriate. "Of course, they can walk on it," he says. "It's a lawn." And yet this is more than a lawn. It's as nearly perfect an expanse of uniformly green turf as one is likely to find outside of England, and for the last seven years it has been his passion. 
 Riding a John Deere GT275 sit-down mower with a 48-inch cutting deck, thatching and aerating attachments and hydrostatic drive (for easier turns and straighter lines), Mr. Esernio cuts his lawn seeded with rye and bluegrass every five days, not once a week ("It's happier when it's cut every five days," he says), keeping it three and a half inches high. ("Any shorter, and the roots would burn out.") He pushes a Sears 22-inch hand mower around the perimeter and in the pool area ("I need the workout") and fertilizes with the Scott four-step program four times a year. ("The most important thing about lawns is feeding them.")
An accountant with three children, Mr. Esernio, 40, has spent thousands of hours and tens of thousands of dollars, including a $3,500 underground sprinkler system, to recreate, in effect, a portion of the outfield at Yankee Stadium. "I like the straight lines," he says. "I'm a little perfectionist about it. I find myself turning the tractor around behind trees so as not to wear out the same areas."
Forget expensive stone walls enclosing the grounds. Forget antique Belgium block driveways with 10,000-square-foot houses for a family of three at the end. Lawns, once again a suburban status symbol, are bigger. As John Henske, a landscaper in Fairfield, Conn., says, "To quote a former employer, 'For some guys it's the biggest thing they own.' "
This may not be the case with Mr. Esernio, of course, but he's far from alone in his obsession. In the waning summer evenings of the millennium, suburban men seem as devoted to their lawns as their fathers were in the golden age of lawn maintenance, the 1950's, the era of suburban migration, the crew cut and conformity.
If middle-aged sons today have less time than their fathers did, they have more money and more lawn. And perhaps more hubris. Despite environmental concern with pesticides and herbicides and a brief fling with prairies and meadows in the 1980's, many suburban males want their lawns to look like ballparks and putting greens. Even this summer's drought in the New York region hasn't appreciably slowed the latest love affair with lawns.
Real lawn guys no longer call their lawn "lawn," of course. "If you're serious about your lawn, if you're an aficionado of grass, you refer to it as 'turf,' " says Edmund Hollander, a landscape designer in Manhattan with clients in the Hamptons and other suburbs.
In the spring, Village Hardware, a narrow, 80-year-old store in Southport, Conn., was stacked to its tin ceiling with bags of Green Power fertilizer and moss-killing lime. The stack disappeared quickly. "Sales were up big time from a few years ago," says Glenn Oesterle, the store's owner. "Customers are looking for a better-looking lawn without spending a fortune. Also, a lot of people have gone back to buying fertilizers in the bag and doing it themselves because they're displeased with the lawn services."
The National Garden Association, which has been conducting an annual survey of homeowners for the Gallup Organization for 20 years, reports a significant increase in homeowner spending on lawn care products, from $6.5 billion to $8.5 billion between 1993 and 1998. Bruce Butterfield, market research director for the association, which is based in Burlington, Vt., attributes the increase to the strong economy, but also to a change in lawn-owner attitude.
"I think people are starting to have a little more respect for their lawns," Mr. Butterfield says. "It's a lot like putting your best face forward in the neighborhood. There's kind of a domino effect. If your neighbor is using a Scott's four-step program and your lawn looks like hell, you're going to want to do something, too."
In the Eisenhower era, they called this keeping up with the Joneses, and something of the same materialism and competition has returned in a decade of similar prosperity and political complacency.
The 1980's and 90's have also seen the second coming of suburban sprawl. The relentless march of American suburbs -- gobbling up farmland in Pennsylvania, encroaching on forests outside Seattle -- has made sprawl an unlikely campaign issue for Vice President Al Gore and has no doubt also spurred lawn-product sales. At the Scott Company, the country's biggest producer of lawn fertilizer, sales have skyrocketed in three years, from $228 million to $442 million.
Doug Reed, a landscape architect in Cambridge, Mass., traces the 90's resurgence of lawn fixation to the latest wave of migrants from the cities. "I've noticed with urban clients that the lawn plays an important role in their pursuit of a kind of idealized country living," he says.
Especially for guys who didn't know anything about lawns growing up. "On the old estates out here, the lawn wasn't the focus," says Jim Kiley, who has a degree in turf management and who works for Whitmores, a landscaping contractor in Amagansett, N.Y. "But the clients we have now want it to look like springtime year-round. It's a guy thing. A lot of investment bankers grew up in Brooklyn and never had a lawn, so it means everything to them."
Whitmores sprays fussy clients' lawns with a concentration of iron two or three days before a party, turning the grass a desired shade of blue-green.
Where 1950's fathers and 1990's sons differ is that many lawn-obsessed men today seem content to pay others to create turf perfection for them. And in these money-spewing times, when grass is another commodity, fast grass beats slow grass by a mile. Most guys want lawns now.
Tom Alfredo, a landscaper in Armonk, N.Y., put a 20-man crew to work hand-laying sod over a seven-acre parcel in Bedford. "Here's the problem in our business -- the best lawn is a seeded lawn, but nobody wants to wait three to four months for the lawn to grow in," Mr. Alfredo says. "What they're buying is a sod farmer's time and efforts to produce a seeded lawn. Sod is instant lawn."
During this summer's drought, which landscapers say damaged even sprinklered lawns and cut into their crews' productivity, Mr. Alfredo's company has made deliveries of 6,000 gallons of water, at about $1,000 a tankerload, to a number of customers' lawns.
In the latest Agriculture Department survey, the sale of farm-raised sod rose almost 70 percent in 1997 over 1992. The demand may help explain something of a sod shortage this summer at the Delea & Sons sod farm in East Northport, N.Y., which sells 400 to 500 acres of sod a year to exterior designers and landscapers in the Hamptons, as well as to Yankee and Shea stadiums.
But not everyone wants to pay someone else, even those who can afford to. For an increasing number of the turf obsessed, no green is as good as the green you tend yourself. At Home Depot, the mecca of do-it-yourself, with more than 820 stores nationwide, the lawn and garden department has seen "a double-digit increase over last year," says Jerry Shields, the chain's senior public relations manager. For Home Depot, he says, "it's probably a billion-dollar business."
Jim Brooks, 51, a partner in an East Hampton insurance agency, put himself through college by working on the greens and grass tennis courts at the Maidstone Club. For 25 years, Mr. Brooks has reseeded and mowed his own quarter-acre lot himself. "You just take pride in the property and the look of the property," he says. He adds that he cuts the lawn "because the phone doesn't ring when I'm mowing."
For some men, moreover, mowing connects them with childhoods when they spent summer evenings in the backyard with their fathers. "I'm drawn deeper into the lawn with each pass, nearly identical to the previous," writes Warren Schultz in his new book, "A Man's Turf: The Perfect Lawn" (Clarkson Potter, $35). "I'm working over old ground. I'm lifted out, transported back to other lawns and the aura that rises from them. This lawn is thick with memories of every lawn I've ever cared for. And every lawn is marked with the footsteps of my father."
Did somebody mention Robert Bly? There's no need to head to the wilderness, thumping on tom-toms, to get in touch with the specters of fathers past, like the legions who followed the "men's movement" some years ago. The late-90's man need only fire up the Toro.
Then again, some men would just as soon forget the lawns of their youth. Christopher Rosow came of age on four acres in the Greenfield Hill section of Fairfield, Conn. "My father was more into not mowing the lawn," he recalls. "He was more interested in me mowing it."
Now 28, Mr. Rosow lives in a tiny, 1822 house in Southport Village, not far from his parents' home, with a 6-by-20-foot yard. He laid the lawn with sod from Home Depot -- "I like instant gratification," he says -- which he cuts with a secondhand Scott reel mower, the acoustic kind of mower that makes a satisfying clicking sound when you push it. "It takes maybe 6 minutes to mow and 10 minutes to trim with the weed whacker," Mr. Rosow says.
Another recent development and realization is that turf may not be exclusively a guy thing at all. "I think women are catching on to our little secret," Mr. Schultz says. "In the course of writing the book, I talked with women who said: 'You know, growing up I never really got the lawn. But I really like it.' "
Cheryl Minikes and her husband, Michael, who live in Manhattan during the week, bought a weekend home on five undeveloped acres in East Hampton nine years ago. Before Mrs. Minikes knew it, she was planning lawns, installing a putting green and overseeing their care. "I was born in the Bronx," she says. "I didn't know from a lawn. But the more I got involved, the more I wanted it to be perfect. I can't help it. My husband loves it, but it's my charge. So we don't fight over it. We don't discuss it. I tell him what I want to do, and he rolls his eyes, and that's it."
Mr. Henske, the Connecticut landscaper, maintains Martha Stewart's three-acre Turkey Hill property in Westport, which could stand up to any man's in a turf competition. "For an unirrigated lawn, it's as close to perfect as you can get," he says. "She has a bunch of guys full time, and they do a good job. But what keeps the lawn from perfection is that there's constant activity and change. There are footsteps all over the lawn, and she has dogs."
Still, the obsession with lawns seems overwhelmingly a male prerogative, maybe the next big guy thing after smoking cigars and swilling martinis. Women already have other outlets for self-expression.
"When I was pregnant the first time," says Kathy Esernio, the wife of Bob Esernio, he of the sit-down mower with the 48-inch cutting deck in Mahopac, "I remember him coming to me and saying, 'I feel it's almost time for me to start the lawn.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christopher Rosow of Southport Village, Conn., laid his small but immaculate lawn with sod. "I like instant gratification," he says. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Richard Delea, an owner of a farm in East Northport, N.Y., that sells 400 to 500 acres of sod a year to landscapers in the Hamptons, as well as to Yankee and Shea Stadiums. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times); Robert Esernio on his sit-down mower with 48-inch cutting deck atop his lawn in Mahopac, N.Y. "I like the straight lines," he says. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); ENGLAND (71%); BELGIUM (52%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); ENGLAND (71%); BELGIUM (52%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: LAWNS; SUBURBS; MEN SUBURBS (84%); CHILDREN (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); 

PERSON: ROSOW, CHRISTOPHER; ESERNIO, ROBERT; CONNOR, TOM ROBERT ESERNIO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



414 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 7; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: TREMONT;
Ghana Dream Homes Inc.

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
Looking to buy that first home but frustrated by high prices in the suburbs? Consider a visit to Kwasi Kissi's real estate office on East Tremont Avenue, where a newly constructed three-bedroom house goes for just $45,000.
Just one catch: it's in Ghana. 
 Mr. Kissi, 49, established the Ghanaian-American Real Estate and Investment Group in 1998 to help his fellow West African immigrants tackle the maddening logistics of purchasing real estate 5,000 miles from New York City.
"It is a major objective of all Ghanaians to save enough money in the United States to build a house at home so they can live comfortably ever after," he said.
But in the past there were a lot of risks. Mr. Kissi said many of his customers had previously been duped into purchasing houses on land with inaccessible roads or no power and water. Others wired money to relatives, only to find their savings gone and no house to show for it when they went back to Ghana.
To avoid such problems, Mr. Kissi works closely with a few large-scale housing developers in Ghana. He is also the only agent based in New York who is accredited by the Home Finance Company, a leading mortgage lender in Ghana founded in 1990 with World Bank money.
He takes pains to prove his legitimacy, producing dozens of files on his customers and photographs of houses. Leading Ghanaians vouch for him.
Then there are the customers. Frankie Ahinful, 45, a technician for a Honda dealer in the Bronx, recently made a down payment through Mr. Kissi on a $60,000 three-bedroom house with servants' quarters in Tema, just outside Accra, the capital. His elderly mother will live there, he said, and he will use it for vacations.
"Ghanaians want to own homes in Africa, but we don't have the connections to do it correctly, beautifully," said Mr. Ahinful, who also wants to own a house in the United States someday.
Selete Avoke, 38, a researcher for the Department of Education, heard about Mr. Kissi in Washington. He was skeptical. In 1995, he had purchased land in Ghana only to find out that the owner had simultaneously sold the same parcel to someone else. Impressed by Mr. Kissi's professionalism and the mortgage company's link with the World Bank, he put down a deposit on a $25,000 two-family retirement house in Accra.
Mr. Kissi said business was slow at first, but it has been picking up through word of mouth and advertisements in publications like Asenta, a monthly newspaper published in the Bronx for the estimated 15,000 Ghanaians in New York City.
Mr. Kissi doubts that all of them will need his services. "Don't forget that the Pilgrims thought they were going back home someday too," he said. SETH KUGEL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frankie Ahinful, left, made a down payment on a $60,000 house in Ghana with Kwasi Kissi. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); 

COUNTRY: GHANA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); WESTERN AFRICA (90%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GHANIAN-AMERICAN REAL ESTATE AND INVESTMENT GROUP; WORLD BANK HOME FINANCE CO LTD (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: GHANIAN-AMERICAN REAL ESTATE AND INVESTMENT GROUP; WORLD BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GHANA; GHANA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); WESTERN AFRICA (90%); AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; GHANAIAN-AMERICANS; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING (87%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); SUBURBS (78%); WIRE TRANSFERS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ACCREDITATION (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); 

PERSON: KISSI, KWASI; KUGEL, SETH FRANKIE AHINFUL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



415 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: In Georgia, Days of Wine and Roadsters

BYLINE: By PETER PASSEL 

 BODY:
SO what does the nicotine skin patch have to do with wine, golf champions and, yes, really cool sports cars? Royalties from the transdermal patch have helped to pay for the Panoz family's delightfully disparate conglomerate, a host of enterprises that includes Georgia's only serious winery and the company that builds a car the racing legend Parnelli Jones has dubbed "the great American roadster."
The story really begins in the backwaters of West Virginia, where Donald Panoz, the son of an Italian-born professional boxer, was born. By his late 20's Mr. Panoz, an entrepreneurial sort, had acquired a couple of drugstores in Pittsburgh. Then in 1960, with financial backing from friends who played for the World Series-winning Pittsburgh Pirates, he started Mylan Laboratories, a pharmaceutical company that would become a power in the generic drug business. 
 Rolling the dice again in 1969, he took his wife, four daughters and son to Ireland to start another company, the Elan Corporation, a pioneer in through-the-skin delivery of medications. He struck gold: The stock market now values Elan at $8 billion; it was in the news this month after scientists at a subsidiary said they had developed a potential vaccine for Alzheimer's disease.
The Georgia connection dates from 1981, when Mr. Panoz (pronounced PAY-nose) was scouting locations for the drug maker. The ever-restless entrepreneur decided to combine pleasure with profit, and in the process managed the nearly impossible: making potable wines from European varietal grapes grown in the hot, humid hills of the South. Chateau Elan's first offerings were marketed in 1985. An art gallery, hotel, golf courses and conference center followed in short order on the 3,500-acre site in Braselton, 45 miles north of Atlanta. Next came a spa and a line of bottled waters (both projects of Donald's wife, Nancy) and, for a time, the Gene Sarazen World Golf Open.
And what would a great golf course be without affluent retirees and weekend duffers camped near the fairways? Lots in the Panoz-sponsored development start at $85,000, and finished houses run $1 million or more -- real money in the Atlanta market. Never one to think small, Mr. Panoz, who retired as chairman of Elan in 1996, has since bought 30,000 acres near Modesto, Calif., with plans to offer a similar package of winery, golf and indulgences to San Franciscans with quality time and money to burn.
For all his fascination with the consumables of the good life, Mr. Panoz never admitted any enthusiasm for fast iron. Indeed, he once told a reporter that he didn't know how to open the hood of his Lexus.
But his son, Danny, 39, is definitely a gearhead. While working with the family business in Georgia, he dreamed of building a high-performance sports car. Others have climbed this mountain without success, partly because the finished product was too expensive to sell at a profit. Danny Panoz planned to make his car both affordable and reliable by buying most components off the shelf from the big auto makers.
He got his chance in 1989, adopting an innovative chassis design from a tiny, failed Irish sports-car startup called TMC and opening a modest factory down the road from Chateau Elan. The first vehicle from Panoz Auto Development, a somewhat austerely finished open-top roadster that Danny Panoz describes as "perfect for bikers," rolled off the assembly line in 1992.
With an outlandish hot rod-retro body reminiscent of the all-show, not-much-go Plymouth Prowler, and a monster Ford V8 for muscle, the Panoz Roadster was bound to turn a few heads. And of course, it graced the covers of car-buff magazines with lots of pages to fill each year. But curiosity quickly morphed into respect, with the early reviews ranging from encouraging to ecstatic. Car and Driver called it "the best street-legal, turn-key, cottage-industry roadster available in the United States." Today, a few dozen Ford dealers sell a more refined version of that original Panoz Roadster, and many more can service it, since the drivetrain comes largely from the Mustang.
In Phase 2 of his operation, Danny Panoz designed the Esperante, a less playful-looking and far more polished "grand touring" sports car with plenty of room for two well-fed Americans and even a trunk that can handle a couple sets of golf clubs. This aluminum-bodied convertible has an updated, 320-horsepower version of the Roadster's V8, which was developed by Ford's Special Vehicle Team; a handcrafted leather interior, and styling cues from Jaguar and a half-dozen other European sports cars. It is to go on sale this fall for about $80,000.
"The Esperante will almost match the performance of a 12-cylinder Ferrari, yet cost $200,000 less," Danny Panoz promised. The people in Armani suits from Modena may not be losing much sleep over the competitive threat from rural Georgia. But the auguries are promising.
The Panoz story hardly ends here. In 1995, Papa Panoz, who was about to retire as chairman of his pharmaceutical house, was searching for another challenge. He decided to plunge into the race car business with all the enthusiasm, smarts and deep pockets that he had brought to Chateau Elan.
Panoz Motorsports hired Adrian Reynard, the race car designer, to build a carbon-fiber car, and Jack Rousch, the maven of sports car engines, to produce the innards for a vehicle that superficially resembles the Esperante. It added a team of drivers recruited from racing's top echelons and instantly became a power to reckon with in the take-no-prisoners world of motor sports.
Panoz race cars hold their own with the best from McLaren, Ferrari and BMW, placing in the top 10 at Le Mans the last two years, and winning the Grand Prix at Mosport, near Toronto, in June. And they are pushing the envelope of racing technology, developing the first electric-gasoline hybrid car for the track. "This much success, this quick, is just amazing," said Brock Yates, an automotive writer whose books include a biography of Enzo Ferrari.
Does racing make economic sense? The money spent on vroom and zoom largely comes from multimillionaires with time on their hands, or from oil, tire, auto and cigarette companies with products in need of racing's reflected glory. Think of Cadillac, now heading back to Le Mans.
The $10 million-plus that Don Panoz acknowledges spending on his racing program will no doubt sell a few more Esperantes. "Building successful race cars gave our sports cars instant credibility," his son said.
But with that kind of money, you might convince NASA to launch an Esperante into orbit. If there is any commercial method to Panoz's racing madness, it's probably in the sale of tickets rather than cars. In 1997, Don Panoz acquired both Road Atlanta, an ailing track in Georgia, and Sebring, the legendary race circuit in Florida. With a few home-team winners, Panoz Motorsports may yet fill the bleachers. And who wants to second-guess a man who made a fortune on the nicotine patch?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Don, top left, and Danny Panoz and an Esperante at the Chateau Elan winery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ELN (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ELAN CORP PLC (85%); A MANZONI & C SPA (64%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AUTOMOBILE RACING PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (90%); GOLF (89%); WINERIES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS CARS (78%); TRANSDERMAL DRUG DELIVERY (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (73%); BOXING (73%); AUTO RACING (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); VACCINES (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); BOTTLED WATER (66%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (64%); TEST LABORATORIES (54%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; PANOZ, DON; PANOZ, DANNY DONALD PANOZ (94%); DANNY PANOZ (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



416 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES;
The Bounce From Stock Buybacks

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Alexandria, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week.
E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
BURNED once, shame on you; burned twice, shame on me. That variation on an old saying explains much investor behavior. It takes a lot to persuade investors who have already lost money in a given stock to keep believing in it if it keeps falling, no matter what its fundamentals.
Consider the market's typically tepid reaction when a company says it will be repurchasing its stock on the open market. Many such stocks have taken multiple hits, and are at depressed levels as the announcements are made. 
 Officemax, which traded early last year near $20 a share, took two blows last fall: The overall market had a sharp correction, and the company missed Wall Street's third-quarter earnings estimates by 4 cents a share. The stock fell to below $7. Though the shares jumped a little after the company announced two repurchase programs, one late last year and another earlier this year, the stock is still trading at not much more than half its 1998 high.
Such a lukewarm reaction notwithstanding, it is difficult to imagine a more unambiguously bullish sign than a company's decision to use its spare cash to buy back its shares. After all, when a company puts its own cash on the line, it must be confident that the stock will climb. And it often does, beating the market in a pattern known as the repurchase effect.
Studies have demonstrated the effect. One, covering all United States stocks from 1980 to 1990, found that the average company announcing a repurchase plan will beat the market by a cumulative 12.1 percentage points for the four years after the announcement. The average value stock with such a plan does even better, outperforming the market by 45.3 points, on average, over the next four years.
FOR investors, the repurchase effect has another advantage: You don't have to be a day trader to exploit it. Many other strategies, by contrast, require almost immediate action. To fully capitalize on a surprise announcement in a company's earnings, for example, you often have to trade within hours of the announcement.
Not so with stock repurchase plans. Because the market's initial reaction is so muted, there is generally plenty of potential remaining for investors who act several weeks later.
It seems too good to be true. So, naturally, a number of skeptical professors have speculated in recent years that the repurchase effect is nothing more than a statistical fluke, and have predicted that it will disappear when studied in other places and times.
That is why another recent study is good news. Three professors -- David Ikenberry of the Jones Graduate School of Management at Rice University, Josef Lakonishok of the University of Illinois and Theo Vermaelen of Maastricht University in the Netherlands -- focused on another place and time, Canadian stocks in the 1990's, and found the repurchase effect alive and well.
Another confirmation of sorts is seen in the reverse image of a repurchase: a corporate decision to issue shares, either through initial public offerings or secondary offerings. Study after study has shown that companies issuing shares lag behind the market for several years thereafter. Moreover, the pattern holds not only in the United States, but also in several other countries.
An investment newsletter, too, shows the positive results of the repurchase effect. The Buyback Letter, edited by David Fried, is the only one that I know to base its approach solely on the effect; it has had a 32.2 percent return, annualized, from the beginning of 1997, soon after its birth, through May of this year, according to The Hulbert Financial Digest. That compares with a 25.3 percent return for the Wilshire 5000, a broad market index. In contrast, New Issues, published by the Institute for Econometric Research and perhaps the best-known I.P.O. newsletter, produced a 19.9 percent annualized return over that period.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Their Cash on the Line"
Stocks of companies that are buying back their shares tend to outperform the market for up to four years after those repurchases are announced, according to a study of U.S. stocks from 1980 to 1990. Value stocks in the group performed best, on average. The graph shows the growth from $1 invested in value companie s with repurchase plans; all companies with repurchase plans, and average stock
 
(Source: "Market Underreaction to Open Market Share Repurchases," by Professors David Ikenberry, Josef Lakonishok, and Theo Vermaelen)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (84%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (84%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); BONDS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); STATISTICS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



417 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 5; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UNION SQUARE;
The Greening of 14th Street: Seedy Remnant Closes

BYLINE: By ERIC V. COPAGE 

 BODY:
The last remnant of 14th Street's seedy past, an adult video store near Third Avenue, closed last week. In years gone by, the block was the domain of crack-addled prostitutes and transients who lived in the Sahara, a single-room-occupancy hotel above the sex shop, one of several that had operated in the vicinity over the last 20 years.
The X-rated store's operators agreed to leave after the building's new owner offered them $100,000, according to someone close to the negotiations. Its departure makes possible the construction of a 15-story building on the corner with apartments and retail space, and opens a new chapter for the neighborhood, according to David Gmach, executive director of the 14th Street-Union Square Local Development Corporation and Business Improvement District. 
 "We are very excited about the new residences and stores that will serve as an anchor for East 14th Street," he said.
Over the past several years, the renaissance of 14th Street has crept eastward with the opening of new businesses and the construction of new dormitories for New York University. For years, the Sahara was a notorious 140-room S.R.O. known for prostitution and drug sales. In 1985, to avoid prosecution on charges of harassing tenants and allowing drugs and prostitution, the owners agreed to sell the building. Despite the agreement they held on to it.
Except for the sex shop, the building has been vacant since 1990. Late last year, an auction was conducted by a court-appointed receiver. In March, Alex Forkosh, a developer, submitted the winning bid of $8.5 million.
Marian Glazer, the managing agent of 200 East 15th Street, an apartment building that has commercial properties on Third Avenue next to the former pornography shop, has high hopes. "In the early 90's we had a hard time renting the space to quality retailers," he said. "When they would see what was going on next door, they would get very nervous. I'm happy because the neighborhood will finally become what we would like it to become."
But Mr. Donald Bruce, who owns O Sweet Cheeses at 141 Third Avenue, a few doors from the former video store, said the establishment had never bothered him.
"The scaffolding is more dangerous," he said, referring to the structure that has been on the building for at least a year. He said muggers could hide in the shadows. Mr. Bruce, a longtime resident of the area, said the store's customers didn't hang around and the store was conservative about displaying its merchandise.
After the store closed its doors on Tuesday, there were rumors that it would reopen elsewhere on East 14th Street. But Mr. Gmach said that was unlikely because of the zoning provisions for sexually oriented businesses, which the city has been aggressively enforcing for the past year, closing dozens of strip clubs and adult video stores, or forcing them to scale back their X-rated merchandise to less than 40 percent of the retail space. "Under current zoning they cannot just open up another store," he said. ERIC V. COPAGE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The operators of an X-rated store on 14th Street reportedly agreed to leave after the building's new owner offered them $100,000. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOUSING; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); PROSTITUTION (90%); RETAILERS (89%); PORNOGRAPHY (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); OBSCENITY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); AUCTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (65%); 

PERSON: COPAGE, ERIC V DAVID GMACH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



418 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Picked Up andDusted Off, A Ski Chain Starts Anew

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY 

 BODY:
BY late last week, word had spread around the Killington area in Vermont, where the economy depends upon the ski trade, that something even better than a heavy snowfall was on its way. It was a heavy downpour of cash.
An investment group controlled by the Texas billionaire Robert Bass had agreed to buy $150 million of convertible preferred stock in the American Skiing Company, the debt-laden owner of the Killington ski area and eight other resorts in New England and the Rockies. On the surface, it seemed to be a peculiar move for someone as sharp as Mr. Bass, considering that the stock market value of the company is slightly less than $150 million. 
 The deal gives the group, Oak Hill Capital Partners, a 48.5 percent stake in the company and infuses enough money into the ski conglomerate to help it finish some of its projects and pay off part of its more than $400 million in debt.
The deal came in the nick of time. Coming out of a rough winter of little snow and few skiers, American Skiing was forced to cut the pay of some employees in Killington and elsewhere and to lay off others. It also put an inn, a golf course and other assets up for sale. With $95 million in accounts payable as of April, and a $7 million interest payment due this month, scant summer revenues would not fill the gap.
Even the Wall Street firms that American Skiing had hired to pin down money, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and ING Barings, were coming up empty.
"They had shopped around a similar deal, a convertible preferred, to the usual cast of suspects -- other financial buyers, strategic partners and existing shareholders," said Christine Lumpkins, a ski industry analyst with Bear Stearns.
For more than two months, nothing came through, possibly because American Skiing's chairman and founder, Leslie B. Otten, who had built up the company from one resort in 1994, did not want to give up control. He currently owns 50.1 percent of the stock, and the restructuring will reduce his stake to 26.2 percent.
David O'Leary, who follows American Skiing for Alpha Equity Research in Portsmouth, N.H., said the deal was a necessary one for Mr. Otten, but not a good one for some American Skiing shareholders.
"If you bought the stock at $18, you've got to be pretty angry that they are selling half of the company for $5.25," he said. American Skiing made its initial public offering in November 1997 for $18 a share. The stock dropped to a low of $2.375 in April and closed at $4.8125 on Friday.
Although the stock market value of the company was only $146 million on Friday, "the value of all of those assets is worth more than that stock is selling for," said John J. Rohs, an analyst with Schroder & Company.
American Skiing has begun millions of dollars' worth of development on hotels and time-share apartments at many of its properties, including Steamboat in Colorado and the Canyons in Utah, which must be completed for the 2002 Winter Olympics.
Hollis Rafkin-Sax, a spokeswoman for Oak Hill, said Mr. Bass and his partners were long-term investors who saw potential in the resorts under construction.
"Many are less developed than their competitors, and real growth opportunities," she said.
Mr. O'Leary noted that Oak Hill stands to make at least $63.75 million from an 8.5 percent dividend over the next five years, after which it must convert its preferred stock to common stock. And if American Skiing has another bad winter this year, he said, the arrangement means that "Oak Hill gets paid before Les Otten gets paid."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Downhill Run"
The graph shows the weekly closing price of the American Skiing Company since 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (84%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SKIING CO; OAK HILL CAPITAL PARTNERS AMERICAN SKIING CO (84%); OAK HILL CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (56%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SKIING CO; OAK HILL CAPITAL PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: KILLINGTON (VT); UNITED STATES (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SKIING SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SKIING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); WEATHER (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); 

PERSON: BASS, ROBERT; FLAHERTY, JULIE ROBERT BASS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



419 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
At the Desk, Off the Clock And Below Statistical Radar

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
YOUNG assistant professors at Cornell University once had time to paint their own houses. Now nights and weekends are devoted to research and writing as they struggle to win tenure. "Painting your own house is not something you even think about anymore," said Robert Frank, a tenured Cornell professor today who did his own painting as an assistant in the 1970's.
Software engineers at Xerox are similarly afflicted. A few sometimes get their work done by 5 P.M., says Leslie Perlow, a University of Michigan sociologist who has studied software engineers at Xerox and other technology companies. But they dare not go home, fearful that their bosses might conclude they are shirkers who stick to the easiest assignments. "We don't know how to assess the value of a knowledge worker in these new technologies, so we value those who work into the night," Ms. Perlow said. 
 There is much debate over whether Americans are spending more time at work or at leisure, and which activities to call "work" and which "leisure." But two things are clear: People on fixed salaries for a 35-hour or 40-hour week are the fastest-growing segment of the work force, and increasingly they work beyond their weekly schedules for no extra pay. The Labor Department's surveys have found that workers who say they toiled 49 hours or more a week have risen to nearly 19 percent of the private-sector work force, from 13 percent in 1976.
EVEN John Robinson, a University of Maryland sociologist who has challenged such data, is beginning to come around. He argues that survey respondents tend to exaggerate when asked to recall how many hours they have worked, and he prefers data from time diaries, in which each day's activities are recorded that day. His diary-based figures showed Americans spending fewer and fewer hours at work until 1985, but gradually more since then.
People are still exaggerating, Mr. Robinson said: they tell pollsters they worked, say, 60 hours in a week when they actually worked only 50. "But there are more people now in the exaggerating class," he said.
No sector of the work force is growing more rapidly than workers on fixed salaries: managers, administrators, engineers, technicians, lawyers, researchers, programmers, consultants. They constitute roughly 40 percent of all workers today, up from 34 percent in 1982. Such workers rarely get overtime pay, particularly those earning more than $40,000 a year. And the changing nature of work in America adds to the pressure on them to work more hours.
The new pressures include some obvious ones: more competition; more people vying for fewer tenured slots, like those at Cornell; the reluctance of corporations to offer job security over a lifetime. But there is also what sociologists describe as a shift away from routine, repetitive work that can be packaged in eight-hour days. The new mode is "project" work that must be done in a hurry, often without clearly defined guidelines.
Senior managers at the technology companies studied by Ms. Perlow often bid on software projects by promising to deliver in two months when everyone knows three months are required, she said. But even in routine trades like commercial baking, the new mode of work appears.
For example, many bakeries once filled standing orders from neighborhood stores, said Richard Sennett, a New York University sociologist who has studied bakeries. The work was routine. Supervisors and workers knew their daily tasks. But now many bakeries vie for orders from all over a city, and the supervisors find themselves constantly changing work schedules or ingredients, tasks that add hours to their workdays.
"If you are manual labor in this process, it shows up in your hourly wages," Mr. Sennett said. "If you are a salaried employee, the sky is the limit."
THE growing number of hours worked by salaried workers is not yet reflected in some key Labor Department statistics, leaving the impression that America's economic performance is better than it probably is. For example, the nation's productivity -- output for each hour worked -- has risen rapidly in recent years, suggesting that corporate America is becoming more efficient.
But the Bureau of Labor Statistics calculates productivity using the hours reported by employers, not employees. For salaried workers, the bureau often is working with scheduled hours, not actual hours. What's more, the bureau assumes that supervisory workers in the service sector -- a category where hard numbers are lacking -- work roughly the same amount of time as hourly, nonsupervisory workers.
The upshot is that the hours worked by as many as 16 percent of all workers are probably underreported, bureau officials said. Undercounting hours has the effect of exaggerating the nation's productivity growth and hourly wages.
That is the arithmetic. The psychological aspect is more ingrained. "We have incorporated the longer hours into our self-image," said Stephen Rose, a labor economist, "and we have come to accept that to be really successful you have to work a lot of hours." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (83%); XRX (LSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334119 OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333315 PHOTOGRAPHIC AND PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333293 PRINTING MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (83%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (83%); SIC3555 PRINTING TRADES MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WORKING HOURS; PRODUCTIVITY; WAGES AND SALARIES COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); ACADEMIC TENURE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (76%); OVERTIME (73%); WORK WEEK (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ROBERT FRANK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



420 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Economist Laureate, Quill in Hand

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
AT 90, John Kenneth Galbraith has just published his 34th book, "Name-Dropping," (Houghton Mifflin, $26) a memoir featuring F.D.R. and Eleanor, Jack and Jackie, Adlai and L.B.J. He has been speaking to packed auditoriums, and now he is ready to hop on a plane to London, where he will be giving a speech on "The Unfinished Business of the Century." And he is already hard at work on Book No. 35. "I get uneasy unless I've spent part of every day writing," he said.
Economics may have become a science, but for the better part of this century, Mr. Galbraith has shrewdly insisted on treating it as a branch of belles lettres. In several books over the last couple of decades, Mr. Galbraith, who was perhaps the only economist at Truman Capote's 1966 Black and White Ball, has been mining a rich vein of history: his own. 
 He writes from memory -- "I never kept a diary," he says. His beginnings belie his born-to-the-manor manner and the grand Victorian, a few hundred yards from Harvard Square, where he lives. He describes himself as a southern Ontario farm boy who to this day never wakes up without a feeling of satisfaction at having escaped "hard, tedious, boring toil." Interestingly, it was his grasp of the realities of that life that gave him entree, back when farm politics dominated American politics, into Washington and Harvard.
His memories are less of his long academic career than of his glamorous political assignments. During the Depression, he was briefly a junior speech writer for President Franklin D. Roosevelt. An early sojourn at Cambridge University made him a disciple of the British economist John Maynard Keynes, of whom he says, "I discovered that his advice was always right, but politically disastrous."
An initial stint at Harvard in the 30's proved less than a triumph. When he left briefly to visit Princeton, he got a telegram from his dean saying, "Accept any available offer!" He did take one, but the exile at Princeton -- "still back in the pre-Keynesian, classical era," he said -- was mercifully brief, thanks to the outbreak of World War II. Hired by the Department of Agriculture, he was ultimately charged with keeping a lid on all prices. He recalls his experience as price czar as the highlight of his career. "In terms of authority and power," he said with a grin, "life has been downhill ever since."
A few days after the war ended, President Harry S. Truman sent Mr. Galbraith to Germany to interrogate Albert Speer, Hitler's economic minister. In contrast to other Hitler henchmen, notorious drug addicts and drunks, Speer proved to be a suave master of spin, in command of snappy American idiom and, in Mr. Galbraith's eyes, the only Nazi who made the enemy "worth the wartime effort and sacrifice."
Soon back at Harvard, Mr. Galbraith wrote speeches and served as an economics tutor to every liberal Democratic Presidential candidate from Adlai Stevenson and John F. Kennedy to George McGovern. At one point, Mr. Galbraith thought he might like to become a Senator from Massachusetts, though the idea didn't go far. His imposing height of 6 feet, 8 inches was always an advantage, he acknowledges. So was the colossal self-assurance. When he once complained to President Kennedy that he didn't see why The New York Times had to call him arrogant, Kennedy replied: "I don't know why not, Ken. Everyone else does."
He came by his success as an author after relentless practice and some false starts. When one of his first efforts, blaming the rise of monopolies for the Depression, was still at the printing press, he wanted to pull it back. As soon as he read Keynes, he said, "I decided the book was wrong, but it was too late." Later, he quietly dropped it from his list of publications.
It was ever upward from there, with classics of social criticism like "The Affluent Society" (1958) and "The New Industrial State" (1967). His biggest hit was "The Triumph" a novel of State Department intrigue published in 1968 and optioned four times by Hollywood.
Time hasn't mellowed him much. Mr. Galbraith's new book, like so many of his old ones, pokes at fellow economists and what he sees as their erroneous but convenient beliefs. He plans to call it "The Economics of Innocent Fraud."
Asked whether he didn't think the 1990's were a lot like the golden 60's, he sat up very straight. 'There is no comparison!" he nearly shouted, launching into a riff on the dangers of unchecked speculation. "We have a much greater speculative bulge than in the 60's," he said. "Prices are going up, so people buy. That justifies the expectation, so they buy more. It's a classic bubble."
He refrains from predicting how the current economic boom will end, explaining: "All my wrong predictions will always be remembered. My right ones not."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Advising Presidents may have been a sideline to John Kenneth Galbraith's other careers as a Harvard economist and a prolific author of books of social and economic analysis, but it gave him the best material for a new memoir called "Name-Dropping." (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: NAME-DROPPING (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); CANADA (77%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); CANADA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); POLITICS (86%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); 

PERSON: GALBRAITH, JOHN KENNETH; NASAR, SYLVIA JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH (93%); TRUMAN CAPOTE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



421 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Looking for Attention With a Billion-Dollar Message

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

 BODY:
AFTER jurors announced a staggering verdict of $4.9 billion against General Motors on July 9, a juror explained the panel's fury at the company. "We're just like numbers, I feel, to them," he said. "Statistics."
Message sent: The jurors concluded that the auto maker had risked lives to save a few dollars on each car, and they were incensed. Rejecting the auto maker's claim that it had been careful, the jury set $107.6 million as the sum to compensate six people for medical and other expenses after they were severely burned when a fuel tank exploded in a crash. 
 The exclamation point came in the punitive damage award of $4.8 billion.
Sending messages is the purpose of punitive damages, defined by law as punishment for especially outrageous conduct.
"The system awards punitive damages not out of concern for the plaintiff but out of concern about the defendant's conduct," said David W. Leebron, an expert on injury law who is the dean of the Columbia Law School. "It is to send a message both to the defendant and others who might consider conduct like the defendant's in the future."
The award in the G.M. case is almost certain to be reduced by appeals courts. But the case is the latest to highlight a ferocious battle over whether punitive damages should be reined in, modified or, perhaps, eliminated.
The view that punitive damages give plaintiffs' lawyers a windfall and provide little benefit was part of the Republican rejection last week of a Democratic proposal to expand what are now extremely limited rights of patients to sue managed health care companies. Most patients can sue only for the value of the care denied but cannot win punitive damages.
Across the country, states are experimenting with new rules for punitive damages. Judges and scholars are advancing new ideas about how awards should be set. And some scholars and business lawyers argue that the American legal system should join those of many other countries, which do not allow civil juries to award punitive damages at all.
Under the banner of tort reform, many state legislatures are capping the amount of punitive damages people can recover. Increasingly, state courts are striking down other new laws limiting liability suits, saying they violate state constitutional guarantees. But so far challenges to punitive damages caps have not met with great success.
Perhaps more than any other legal device, punitive damages are products of a view of the legal system as an economic tool. In a free-market system, the thinking goes, the fear of financial losses from private suits may work better than regulation ever could to keep products safe.
But as huge punitive damage awards have become Exhibit A for the argument that the legal system is little more than a lottery, critics have said the main contribution of punitive damages is to inhibit business without making products safer.
"You can't design and build a product to the standards of a future jury in California, because you don't know what those standards are," said Steve Morrison, a lawyer in Columbia, S.C., and a former president of the Defense Research Institute, a national organization of trial lawyers who defend corporations.
In Europe, where he has defended manufacturers, Mr. Morrison said, litigation of civil cases is more rational because punitive damages are viewed as penalties like criminal sanctions that should be sought only by government.
SOME scholars say the big American verdicts, and the fear of them, result in "over-deterrence," or excessive caution to avoid litigation that hampers the free market system. Decisions about product safety like the proper location of automobile gas tanks, they say, ought to be left to regulators.
Industry lobbyists offer a list of drugs and other products that do not get to American consumers because of executives' fears of punitive damages. According to the American Tort Reform Association, a group that lobbies for limitations on liability law, the risk of punitive damages reduced the number of companies making football helmets in the United States from 20 in the 1960's to 2 by the late 1980's.
Defenders of punitive damages have their own list of products that have been improved after juries hit their makers with big punitive damage awards. According to Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy group, punitive damages helped convince manufacturers to change the design of tampons that had caused toxic shock syndrome, and forced makers of baby pajamas to produce them without flammable fabrics.
Some legal scholars argue that judges traditionally give jurors too much leeway. "Juries don't have any guidance about how much is appropriate to punish," said Polly J. Price, a professor at Emory University School of Law in Atlanta. That, some experts say, has created punitive damage inflation, as incensed jurors pick bigger and bigger numbers out of the air. And some say juries should be given formulas that take into account such things as how much it would have cost to make a dangerous product safer.
In 1996, the United States Supreme Court issued its most expansive decision on punitive damages in an Alabama case. The decision left a great deal of room for interpretation and did not adopt a formula. It did say courts reviewing punitive damage awards should consider the "degree of reprehensibility" and the ratio between punitive and compensatory damages.
THE Justices said a punitive damage award of $2 million was "grossly excessive" when the compensatory damages were only $4,000 in a consumer fraud case involving a new BMW that had been painted to cover scratches. The court said the ratio of $500 in punitive damages to each $1 of compensatory damages was too big, but it did not specify an acceptable ratio.
Some states have passed laws setting dollar limits, like $250,000 in medical malpractice cases. In other states, legislators have focused not so much on the amount of the awards as on the fact that the money was going to plaintiffs and their lawyers.
At least nine states, including Florida, Georgia and Kansas, are experimenting with new laws that reduce the incentive to sue by giving plaintiffs only a portion of any punitive damage award; 25 percent, for example, with the remainder going to the state.
To business lawyers, such solutions do not deal with the heart of the problem: the sheer size of verdicts, no matter how rare or how likely to be overturned. Mr. Morrison, who has defended automobile manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies in liability cases, says the main problem is that juries are told only to figure out how much punishment is enough.
"It is a subjective standard based on how outraged a particular jury is," Mr. Morrison said.
To defenders of punitive damages, of course, that is exactly the point. The messages jurors send with their verdicts are determined by how outraged they are.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A jury awarded $4.9 billion in damages for the occupants of the car in this police photograph. They were burned in a collision in 1979. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7338 SECRETARIAL & COURT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AMERICAN LEGAL SYSTEMS CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; AUTOMOBILES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION JURY TRIALS (92%); DAMAGES (91%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (91%); VERDICTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MISCONDUCT (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); TORTS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); BURN INJURIES (70%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); TORT REFORM (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM STEVE MORRISON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



422 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: The World: Meanwhile, Back in Bosnia;
Slowly Starving Serb Defiance

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE 

DATELINE: SREBRENICA, Bosnia

 BODY:
AFTER years of obstinacy, the Serbs finally gave in here last month. Local Serb nationalists allowed the majority Muslim town council -- elected in absentia more than two years ago -- to take official control of a town that has stood as a symbol of Serb defiance and brutality in Bosnia.
Four years ago this month, Bosnian Serb soldiers hunted down and killed as many as 7,000 mostly unarmed Muslim men in the rugged hills surrounding Srebrenica, a town the United Nations had declared a "safe area" and vowed to protect. Since the war ended in 1995, local Serb nationalists have used tactics ranging from endless negotiations to rock-throwing mobs to prevent the town council from meeting. 
 But in a scene hardt to imagine only a few months ago, two dozen Muslim politicians calmly sat down with 20 of their Serb counterparts in the lobby of a local hotel on June 29 for the inaugural session of the town council of the "new Srebrenica."
Nesib Mandzic, a Bosnian Muslim high school principal who unsuccessfully begged the Bosnian Serb Army commander, Gen. Ratko Mladic, to spare the lives of thousands of Muslims four years ago, presided over the meetings as nothing less than Srebrenica's new Muslim mayor.
For the last month, Mr. Mandzic and other Muslim town councilors have lived in the hotel under the protection of American soldiers. This summer they should be the first Muslims to move back to Srebrenica.
Bent Jensen, a former Danish policeman who is the international community's special representative to Srebrenica, said the explanation for the Serb change of heart was simple. "There are no jobs," he said. "People are having trouble feeding themselves. They are on their knees."
FOR four years, the Clinton Administration has used its veto in the World Bank and other aid institutions to enforce what critics call a heavy-handed blockade of most relief to Srebrenica because of Serb recalcitrance. While Muslim and Croat leaders also thwart some efforts by members of other ethnic groups to return to their homes, Serb leaders in Srebrenica and other nearby towns are viewed as the most obstinate in Bosnia.
As a result of the blockade, the 12,000 Serbs who now inhabit Srebrenica -- most of them refugees from Sarajevo -- have spent four years living in the crumbling ruins of a town with 80 to 90 percent unemployment, no potable running water and a wretched sewage system. The NATO bombing that destroyed the Serbian economy this spring may have been the final blow. Many of the Serbs who had jobs actually worked in nearby towns in Serbia, Mr. Jensen said. They are now unemployed.
The denial of aid and the NATO bombing may be having similar effects in other hard-line towns in eastern Bosnia. Andy Bearpark, the head of the international resettlement task force here, said Serbs in towns known for defiance are taking initial steps to allow some Muslims to return to their homes in exchange for Western aid. "There is still a long way to go," he cautioned.
Some Western diplomats cite the signs of initial success here as proof that the same policy should be used in Serbia. The Clinton Administration is vowing to block most international aid to Serbia until President Slobodan Milosevic is forced from power. But skeptics have predicted that this policy would merely punish ordinary Serbs.
Among Serb civilians in Srebrenica, resentment of the United States and NATO simmers. A group of people selling buckets of blueberries in front of a bombed-out building complained that the new Muslim-led government was being forced on them.
The suffering has also clearly bred resentment of local Serb hard-liners. But whether that frustration can spark wide public opposition to the Serb nationalists was difficult to predict. The strongest sentiments expressed by the Serbs of Srebrenica as they watched their triumph of four years ago slowly being reversed were cynicism and despair, not anger and calls for action.
"The old government was stealing the aid sent here," said a Serb woman who would not give her name. "The new one will probably do the same."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A morgue created in Tuzla for unidentified victims of the 1995 massacre in Srebrenica. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SREBRENICA (BOSNIA); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); STARVATION (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); MAYORS (78%); RELIGION (78%); ARMIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); REFUGEES (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); VETO (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (67%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); ETHNICITY (50%); 

PERSON: ROHDE, DAVID HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



423 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Getting Real in the Other China

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
HERE'S a riddle: How do you make a country richer and more democratic and at the same time outmaneuver a huge, luggish neighbor that wants to "reunify" with you?
Here's an answer (and Beijing won't like this): Ask the President of Taiwan, Lee Teng-hui. 
 Last week, Mr. Lee again upset the apple cart of international opinion when he declared that Taiwan would no longer adhere to the principle that the Chinese mainland and it were part of the same country. This may sound silly to an outsider, since the Chinese civil war ended exactly 50 years ago, but ever since then Taipei and Beijing have been bickering over the use of the name China.
Mr. Lee, 76, is a master politician who has repeatedly defied, and surpassed, the expectations of him. A shrewd strategist with an eye on the voter, he has presided over a remarkable flourishing of democracy and economic growth while holding on to power for nearly 12 years, at the same time keeping his enormous Chinese neighbor at bay.
Perhaps most impressive is the way Mr. Lee has kept his Nationalist Party, once dominated by thugs, at the top of Taiwan's political heap. And he has done that while steadily cutting away at the party's original premise: that it represents all of China. Instead he has focused on the governing of Taiwan alone.
How has he done it? Mr. Lee likes to talk about his vision of democracy, and his conviction as the first native-born President of Taiwan that his country needs an identity separate from China. His greatest skill may be keeping his rivals off balance with sly tactical maneuvering, and by appealing to voters.
Yet a central element of Mr. Lee's success is often overlooked: His moves point toward more democracy and self-determination, two concepts that have proved stunningly popular this century, at least with voters. Though he plays a risky game with China, his strategy is based on political ideas far more resilient than all the inertia that favors the status quo.
Chiang Kai-shek, the vanquished leader of the Nationalist Party who retreated to Taiwan in 1949, refused to recognize the legitimacy of the Government in mainland China. So did the United States until 1972. When President Nixon traveled to Beijing that year, his main obstacle was the Taiwan question. So the "one China" policy was born, allowing Washington, Beijing and Taipei to agree to the fiction that there was only one China and that its two halves would reunify eventually. The beauty of this lie was that it allowed both sides to get around the truth -- that China has no control over its highly successful ideological rival. This is a truth that makes the Chinese hopping mad and liable to do dangerous and unpredictable things.
By dropping the one-China stance last week, Mr. Lee has taken another step toward acknowledging that messy truth and thereby upsetting the delicate arrangement that made his country's prosperity possible. Although he has not actually declared independence, or changed Taiwan's formal name from the Republic of China, he is insisting that Taiwan be considered its own state. The United States, Taiwan's leading patron, expressed dismay at Mr. Lee's action and reaffirmed its support for one China led by Beijing.
Mr. Lee's assertions may sound dangerous in the face of China's threats to take military action toward reunification if peaceful means fail. China responded to Mr. Lee in its state-run media last week, calling him a "troublemaker." How it reacts over the coming months, especially to Taiwan's presidential elections next March, is anyone's guess.
Though many people fret at China's rumbling, even more seem to be embracing the way Mr. Lee is calling Taiwan its own country, which, after all, has been a reality for 50 years. "A lot of people in Taiwan are very happy to hear their President finally say the truth," said Yang Kai-huang, a political science professor at Soochow University in Taipei. Professor Yang and other political analysts see other motives behind the move. They see Mr. Lee trying to undercut James Soong, a long-time ally Mr. Lee dropped from his top circle two years ago because he was too popular and independent minded. Mr. Soong announced his candidacy for President on an independent line Friday.
There is an obvious merit in Mr. Lee's refashioning of the Nationalist Party line toward China that is closer to reality. Many Chinese grow up steeped in a way of thinking that teaches that respect for authority is more important than honesty. Chinese culture does not have a monopoly on political hypocrisy, of course, but it seems to tolerate a mind-boggling degree of saying one thing while doing another.
TO some Chinese, that subtlety need not change.
"I am a man. Do I need to say it out loud?" asked Eric Wang, a Taiwanese businessman who runs a plastics business in mainland China.
Yet in Taiwan, life has changed so much since the one-China formula, becoming so open and modern minded, that many others object to an old policy that they see as so badly out of date as to be offensive.
Mr. Lee's latest moves, in his final year in office, may be geared toward his legacy. History will not be uniformly kind to him. Among his ill-considered actions is offering the United Nations $1 billion only if it would let Taiwan join. (The United Nations said no.) A book recently published under Mr. Lee's name made the wacky suggestion that China be split into seven autonomous regions, including Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Yet among Mr. Lee's big achievements is ushering in a presidential election in 1996, arguably the first time a Chinese society had freely elected a leader. Political analysts detailed how Mr. Lee appeared to manipulate public opinion in a risky way, deliberately angering China so much that it held military exercises off the coast of Taiwan just before the election, which rallied voters to Mr. Lee's side and gave him a decisive victory.
Mr. Lee came out looking like a master. But his legacy will not be based only on his electoral victory; there is also the fact that a genuine presidential election was held at all.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Lee Teng-hui's inspection of a Taiwanese military base last year coincided with a meeting between President Clinton and China's President, Jiang Zemin. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONALIST PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONALIST PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: LEE TENG-HUI (PRES); FAISON, SETH BILL CLINTON (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



424 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Agony of Victory;
America Finds It's Lonely At the Top

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT is impossible to pinpoint the moment when America's successes in the 1990's moved from a topic of grudging admiration around the world to a constant source of annoyance at Washington's triumphalism to a rationale for mistrust and resistance.
Perhaps the clincher was envy over the Dow's dramatic ascent from a little over 2,000 at the start of the decade to a little over 11,000 this year. Maybe it was the dawning realization that people around the globe are all flicking on the same Windows operating system in the morning, on their way to navigating an Internet dominated by American innovations and businesses and driven by Intel inside everything. Maybe it was when the United States, in the wake of the Asian economic crisis, began offering tutorials on American-style capitalism, and insisting that the world's financial architecture be rebuilt to American building codes. 
 But surely the capstone was Kosovo. Whether Washington intended this outcome or not, the war demonstrated to allies and potential adversaries alike how much more formidable American military technology has become since the Persian Gulf war. Europeans got a rude awakening when they learned that the gap between the United States' capability and their own had so widened that they now have to rethink their we'll-build-it-on-the-Continent mentality.
And nothing sent a greater chill through the Kremlin and the Chinese leaders' compound next to the Forbidden City than the image of those B-2 bombers lazily lifting into the air over Missouri at midday, flying an 11,000-mile, 32-hour mission to drop laser-guided weapons over Belgrade -- and getting back in time for dinner the next evening. Feeling the need to stake out some ground, Moscow hastily flew a ragtag force into Kosovo, and Beijing boasted last week that it had the neutron bomb -- don't-mess-with-us messages that undercut the Clinton Administration's talk of strategic partnerships with old cold war adversaries.
Of course, the world looks very different to Americans, who have already moved beyond the Kosovo war. In the national self-image, America's pillars of global power -- unparalleled financial clout, unmatched technological prowess and unchallenged military reach -- are separate entities, bits of a far more fragile mosaic. Sure, times are good, but Americans don't feel particularly powerful now, even with the Russians broke, the Chinese consumed with unemployment and slowing growth, and the Japanese unable to get their breath back.
But talk to Thai politicians stewingover what they view as an American conspiracy to keep their candidate from running the World Trade Organization, or scan the People's Daily, or listen to talk radio in Toronto, and it becomes clear that America's triple threat -- the dollar, the Pentium III chip and the B-2 -- is now also its biggest diplomatic challenge. It may be a case of being too powerful for one's own good.
OR as Michael Mandelbaum, a professor at Johns Hopkins University, puts it, "If you are the 800-pound gorilla, you're concentrating on your bananas and everyone else is concentrating on you."
Of course, the reactions differ dramatically when America talks to friends like the Western Europeans and to potentially hostile powers. Nonetheless, officials at the State Department, the Treasury and the Pentagon, who agree on precious little, all say fear of America's widening lead has become the subtext of nearly every major conversation they hold around the world.
It underlies Europe's near-panic over the precipitous fall of the euro, the new currency meant to represent a more economically powerful Europe. And it underlies Russia's perpetual negotiations to avoid national default, in which Moscow fights every step of the way as the International Monetary Fund -- synonymous with Washington in the Russian view -- demands economic reforms in return for aid.
"What we need is a policy of strategic reassurance," a Clinton Administration official lamented, "a way of demonstrating that not only is this power benign, but that it isn't a zero-sum game."
BUT turning that desire into policy isn't easy. The new Treasury Secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, warns against trying to fix the world, noting that "we cannot want prosperity and reform in any country more than its people do."
"It's our challenge," he says, "to succeed as the first outward-looking, non-imperialist, continental superpower." The unspoken comparison is with the old Soviet Union, which was continental but expansionist and the continental but inward-looking China.
From other capitals, though, Washington doesn't look so benign. Its push for more open markets around the world is often viewed as nice ideological justification for speeding the pace at which more efficient American companies can drive their foreign competition into the ground. Meanwhile, the White House jumps when American companies complain that low-cost imports are hurting American workers: In the past two weeks alone, Washington has announced restrictions on cheap steel from Russia and Brazil and cheap lamb from Australia and New Zealand. No matter how it defends such moves as legal responses to "dumping," from overseas it looks more like protectionism.
On top of that is puzzlement over the deliberately vague "Clinton Doctrine." It doesn't get much press in the United States, but everywhere else there is speculation over how far the Americans might extend the principles of Kosovo, intervening inside other nations' borders to enforce "international values" of humanitarian treatment or human rights. Russia looks at Kosovo and worries about Chechnya; China looks at it and worries about Tibet and Taiwan.
An intense decade of global competition and technological innovation has only heightened the contrast between America's view of its power and the very different view held by the rest of the world.
Europeans struggling with 12 percent unemployment and Japanese trying to emerge from a lost decade look at America's surging markets and employment rolls and see a train speeding by so fast that it looks uncatchable. When Americans look at the same facts, many get as queasy as Alan Greenspan, wondering how long the boom can last. (That insecurity, some economists think, has actually helped spur America's growth, sustaining the pressure for cost-cutting and productivity gains.)
When foreign companies look at the pace of American technological development, they see a gap far greater than a decade ago. But American corporate executives look over their shoulders and worry. "You sense quite the opposite of triumphalism from c.e.o.'s," said Jeffrey Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management. "They feel they are in a brutally competitive world, and they think they are in a race for their lives."
The developing world holds a similar fear. The United Nations Development Program issued a report last week arguing that the digital divide is widening faster than ever. Twenty-six percent of Americans use the World Wide Web, it said, compared to 3 percent of Russians and a tiny fraction of a percent of the population of South Asia. The United States has more computers than the rest of the world combined. In other words, the faster rich nations log on, the further they pull ahead of countries that aren't even plugged in. But the closest the report came to advocating a solution was a 1-cent tax on long E-mails, with the revenue earmarked for connecting up the rest of the world.
The perception gap grows whenever the subject turns to the lessons of Kosovo and American military power. Washington looks back at the events of the spring and wipes its brow, relieved that it got through with negligible casualties and no ground troops. It sees a truly multinational mission: After all, there was Prime Minister Tony Blair, feeling his oats, arguing for ground troops.
The European allies emerged with a different view: The war was won with American air power that homegrown military technology cannot match. Meeting last week in Washington to review the war, European defense contractors and officials concluded that trans-Atlantic mergers of defense contractors -- something both Europe and America have long resisted -- are now inevitable.
The Chinese saw Kosovo through another lens. When Thomas R. Pickering, the Under Secretary of State, went to Beijing last month to explain the series of mistakes that led to the accidental bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, a senior Chinese official said China believed that the United States was involved in Kosovo simply to test its latest armaments, according to American officials who have reviewed transcripts of the conversation.
"I don't think that we appreciate how this integration of financial, military and technological power looks from the outside," said Gerrit Gong, the director of Asian studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "It makes random, unconnected events seem like part of a plan for America to hog the road."
THIS may be a problem without a solution. Perhaps it could be eased with a little less talk of America as the "indispensable nation" -- Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's phrase -- and a little more attention to sharing technology and the wealth it creates.
That, however, is not exactly the mood that Congress is in. Nor is the Administration so inclined; it is trying to get through its last 18 months with no more ethnic wars, no more economic collapses around the globe and no abrupt end to the age of prosperity.
"Economic progress is a Faustian bargain," concludes Mr. Mandelbaum. "You gain a lot, you pay a price. That's what international politics is all about."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A refueling B-2 bomber, symbol of America's multifaceted ascendancy. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COLD WAR (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); LASERS (67%); LASER WEAPONS (67%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (55%); 

PERSON: MANDELBAUM, MICHAEL; SANGER, DAVID E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



425 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Now That the Wars Are Over, Utopia Seems More Distant

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
THE warm and fuzzies have vanished from peacemaking.
There is a cold-blooded quality to the resolution of ethnic and territorial conflicts in today's world. Rosy visions of multi-ethnic harmony, often imposed by outsiders, have turned steely. Even the impulse to provide such visions as window-dressing seems to be gone -- from the Balkans, Northern Ireland and the Middle East. 
 Ehud Barak, the new Prime Minister of Israel, is determined to be the great peacemaker of his country's history, to resolve century-old conflicts once and for all.
But the former general, while he has traded in his olive drabs for an olive branch, does not spout a vision that could even remotely be considered utopian. His hard-nosed peace, which he presented to President Clinton in Washington last week, sounds less like something positive and more like a double negative: not war.
Mr. Barak, leader of the Labor Party, talks bluntly about putting up "high fences" between Israel and its neighbors. He primarily describes peace as a way to enhance Israel's security.
It is a baldly grim message compared with the idealism about regional cooperation, even harmony, voiced by predecessors who chose to wear the mantle of peacemaker. Mr. Barak's campaign pledge to "separate" from the Palestinians summed it up with a starkly unromantic slogan: "We are here and they will be over there."
Similarly, in the Balkans, there is very little official talk any more of forging or recreating mixed societies. In 1995, Tito's dream of unifying the South Slavs got a final nod in the Dayton peace accords, which, for public relations purposes, were wrapped in the rhetoric of harmony. But with Bosnia now rigidly divided and the Serbs exiting Kosovo, there is little pretense of establishing Serbian-Albanian friendship leagues.
Even as it urges Serbs not to leave, NATO is reconciled to separating peoples.
It could be argued that peace has always been more about exhaustion than aspiration. Belligerent parties finally realize they are not going to reach their objectives through armed conflicts; their people are tired of paying the price of sustained warfare.
But there does seem to be a change in the air, a new pragmatism that sees the hopeful dream of peace with harmony as naive, even as an obstacle to ending conflicts.
Perhaps it is a kind of battle fatigue with peacemaking, too; conflicting peoples would just as soon carve out a conflict-free zone and be done with it.
In Northern Ireland, peace the concept has become truce the (near) reality. Talk of integrating schools and sports has given way to divvying up parliamentary spoils and "decommissioning" paramilitary weapons.
In 1976, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to two Irish women, Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams, grass-roots peace activists who preached inter-religious reconciliation -- and led a movement that went nowhere. Last year's Nobel Peace Prize celebrated two unapologetic partisans -- David Trimble, the Unionist leader, and John Hume, the Irish Republican leader -- who attempt no straddling of worlds.
Last week, the continuing strains brought the pact close to a breaking point when Mr. Trimble refused to let members of a new power-sharing Cabinet be named unless the Irish Republican Army began to disarm. Such is the tense and guarded quality of this peace.
In the Mideast, Mr. Barak is not playing games with his tough talk.
A veteran of Israeli-Arab battlefields and someone who personally led missions to assassinate Palestinian terrorists, he is not inclined to hold hands with Yasir Arafat and sing "Kumbaya."
In an interview last week, Mr. Barak could not bring himself to echo Mr. Arafat's description of him as "friend and partner." He raised his eyebrows, said Mr. Arafat was not exactly a card-carrying member of the B'nai B'rith and settled on "partnerish rival" to describe him.
But, beyond his personal feelings, Mr. Barak is also acting in a perfectly calculated manner. As a leader, he does not want to go beyond what the body politic can endorse. And he has decided that the Israeli public cannot unite around a utopian notion of peacemaking.
Following in the footsteps of Yitzhak Rabin, who was assassinated by a right-wing extremist in 1995, any Israeli leader intent on forging peace agreements is going to tread cautiously through the ideological minefields.
For Mr. Barak to dress up his peacemaking as a visionary thing would be to risk violent social unrest at the worst or to face political paralysis at best. Israelis are prepared to swallow the bitter pill of making territorial concessions to the Palestinians and even to the Syrians. Like Mr. Barak, they are ready to free Israel of what he calls the "burden of ruling the Palestinians."
They are not ready to take down the barbed wire.
This hard-bitten approach mediates between the grand neighborly visions of some of Mr. Barak's leftist predecessors and the hostile skepticism of the Prime Minister he defeated, Benjamin Netanyahu, who said he believed in peace but never sounded conciliatory.
No less than Theodor Herzl, Israel's founder, envisioned a commercially integrated Middle East, although his writings reveal a keen colonialist mentality. ("The creation of our State would be beneficial to other countries," he wrote.)
DECADES later, when Abba Eban addressed the United Nations in 1967, he had a fully realized dream. "In peaceful conditions, we could imagine communications running from Haifa to Beirut and Damascus in the north, to Amman and beyond in the east, and to Cairo in the south," he said. "The opening of these blocked arteries would stimulate the life, thought and commerce in the region beyond any level otherwise conceivable."
Even the unsentimental Mr. Rabin, Mr. Barak's mentor, spoke of "turning swords into plowshares" and forging an economically integrated region.
But it was Shimon Peres, first as Foreign Minister under Yitzhak Rabin and then as the Prime Minister after Mr. Rabin's assassination, who became the Israeli leader most associated with the utopian vision of peace with harmony.
Mr. Peres scoffed at and continues to scoff at the notion of high fences. He coined the idea of a New Middle East.
Politically, he was mocked by many for his lofty thinking; one remark -- that hotels would be of greater strategic importance than checkpoints on Israel's borders -- is still repeated by his detractors with contempt.
But the reality of what is likely to transpire falls somewhere between Mr. Barak's and Mr. Peres's visions.
No matter what Mr. Barak says, the fact is that the Palestinians and the Israelis are not "here" and "there," not with settlements dotting the West Bank and a large Palestinian population living in Jerusalem.
In the immediate future, there is no real way to dissociate the two, not when Israel mans the borders, collects the taxes, employs 100,000 Palestinian laborers and depends economically on Palestinian consumers. And there will have to be cooperation if not collaboration -- on security, on the millennial tourism business, and so on.
MR. BARAK may be calling greater attention to building fences than bridges, but his new Industry and Trade Minister, Ran Cohen, said he plans to build industry zones "in a massive way" on the borders between Israel and the Palestinian territories and perhaps between Israel and Jordan.
"What is peace without economic agreements?" Mr. Cohen said in an interview. "Prime Minister Barak may not be highlighting it, but it is self-evident that this lies in our future."
On a grass-roots level, too, there are scores of local people-to-people projects that suddenly feel very free to flourish, from collaborations between Israeli and Palestinian firefighters, birdwatchers and tour guides to recent Internet chat sessions between Israeli and Lebanese teen-agers discussing the bombardment of Lebanon.
On the ground, then, the hard-nosed vision may be softened by those infected with the more idealistic view of peace, or with what Mr. Rabin referred to as the profit motive. "No one will come here because of our winning smiles," he said at an economic summit in Amman. "They all want to make money."
Down the line, even in Kosovo, the aspirations of peace with harmony may come back to life.
Partition plans and segregation are the crisis solution, but if Slobodan Milosevic were to be toppled someday, if a more democratic Serbia evolved, and if livelihoods could be restored, perhaps there could be a power-sharing arrangement with Albanian Kosovo.
Not far away, the European Union sits as a practical model of the power of commerce to reconcile old enemies; the message, however muted today, is not entirely lost on the Balkans.
Advocates of a grand peace may be out of fashion but they are not extinct.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: West Belfast, Northern Ireland, where, as elsewhere, rosy visions of harmony are giving way to cold-eyed views of peace. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SERBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; NORTHERN IRELAND; ISRAEL (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SERBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); DISARMAMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HISTORY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); SONTAG, DEBORAH EHUD BARAK (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



426 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Go Slow on Tax Cuts

 BODY:
Cutting taxes always sounds good in Washington, and it may be inevitable that Congress will pass a tax cut before next year's election. But if that is to happen, the grandiose cutting plans proposed by the chairmen of the Congressional tax-writing committees need to be scaled back substantially.
Economically, this is an inappropriate time for any tax decrease. With the economy booming and the Federal Reserve raising interest rates in an effort to slow growth and prevent inflation, a fiscal stimulus package would have the opposite effect, and could persuade the Federal Reserve that it will need to raise interest rates more than would otherwise be necessary. 
 But the most important defect of the plans by Representative Bill Archer, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and Senator William Roth, the chairman of the Finance Committee, lies in their sheer scope. Rather than simply pass a tax cut that would take effect in the next year or two, both Republican bills call for major cuts to be made well into the next decade. The Archer bill even has cuts to take effect in 2009, three Presidential elections from now.
Mr. Archer's bill, as passed by his committee on a party-line vote, is expected to cut Government revenue by $864 billion over the next 10 years, and by much more in years after that as some major provisions -- including a repeal of all estate taxes, even for billionaires -- are phased in. The Roth bill calls for cuts of $792 billion over the 10 years. A more moderate plan from Senate Democrats led by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan proposes cuts of $295 billion, still more than the $250 billion President Clinton has suggested.
The Republican proposals are based on estimates that the Government will otherwise run huge surpluses in coming years. But those estimates are inherently questionable, and the surpluses could vanish if the economy were to weaken. In addition, the surplus figures are based on the assumption that spending will be held down in accord with previous budget compromises, even though it appears likely that this Congress will be unable to abide by the harsh spending cuts required to meet those targets. Congress should first pass its spending bills and only then turn to the issue of taxes.
If there are to be tax cuts, they should be targeted at middle- and lower-income taxpayers. While some adjustments to estate taxes may be in order, Mr. Archer's plan to eliminate the tax is a giveaway to the wealthy that would severely damage the Government's finances after it took effect in 2009. Similarly, there is no reason to further cut capital gains taxes, as Mr. Archer proposes.
Any bill that is passed should target the abusive tax shelters used by some companies to avoid paying taxes. The Republicans say they are still studying Clinton Administration proposals.
Most important, a tax cut bill should not have provisions that would decimate Government revenues 5 or 10 years from now. If the present optimistic economic forecasts prove to be accurate, there will be more than enough time for a future Congress to consider those reductions. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ESTATE TAX (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); BUDGETS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



427 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 4; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Housing Grant

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
White Plains will receive a grant from the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal for emergency repairs to houses owned by the elderly.
The city will receive $25,150 through the Restore Program, created to pay for emergency repairs and eliminate unsafe conditions. State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, the county's Republican leader, said that many elderly residents cannot afford to make repairs to the houses they have occupied for many years. 
 Through partnerships with counties, towns, cities, villages, private developers and nonprofit corporations, the state helps finance acquisition, construction and rehabilitation of affordable housing and provides assistance to low-income home buyers and renters. On a state level, the money for White Plains is administered by the New York Housing Trust Fund Corporation. The city's Community Development Agency then processes the money. ELSA BRENNER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DIV (68%); FUND CORP (63%); HOUSING&COMMUNITY RENEWAL (68%); COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (63%); NEW YORK (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING&COMMUNITY RENEWAL (68%); COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (63%); NEW YORK (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AGED; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION HOUSING ASSISTANCE (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); AGING (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA ELSA BRENNER (63%); NICHOLAS A SPANO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



428 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 18; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Old Thinking atthe Fed

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Despite the Fears, Inflation Still Refuses to Materialize," (Economic View, June 20) skillfully explained the evidence that there are virtually no indications of actual or incipient inflation in our economy today -- and little reason for the Federal Reserve to want to make restrictive moves in monetary policy. Indeed, the Producer Price Index for June, reported on Wednesday, actually declined. 
 What remains a mystery is the basis for the Fed's compulsion to raise rates last month, even though its chairman, Alan Greenspan, had been acknowledging that we are in the midst of an extraordinary technology boom that is lowering costs and expanding productive capacity at rates never seen before.
The answer, I believe, is that the Fed has no economic model to fit the present environment of technology-driven growth. The Fed, unable to discard its obsolete thinking about economic expansion, remains dependent on historical economic data that no longer apply to our economy.
The Fed, for example, has dwelled on the fact that labor markets are too tight, while the reality is that scarce labor is a strong incentive for companies to innovate rapidly and invest in new technology. The inflation fears seem to be unaffected by the tight rein on aggregate demand imposed by a large and growing Federal budget surplus. The Fed also seems oblivious to the fact that stock market gains tend to be self-limiting and cannot fuel increased consumer spending for very long.
Worst of all, the Fed shows no signs of recognizing that its worries about inflation for several years now have been terribly wrong. The country is entitled to more accountability than it is now getting from the Fed.
 
LEON KOROBOW
Great Neck, N.Y., July 14
 
The writer, an economist, is a retired assistant vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (65%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); WRITERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: KOROBOW, LEON ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



429 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Unemployment in the State Rose a Bit in June

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
The number of jobs available in New Jersey increased in June, but the unemployment rate also rose slightly to 4.9 percent from 4.7 percent in May, according to the state Department of Labor.
The unemployment rate has remained below 5 percent for the past 20 months as the number of jobs continues to grow, said Kevin Smith, labor department spokesman. The unemployment rate remains above the national average, which has been between 4.3 percent and 4.5 percent for the past eight months. 
 The number of jobs grew by 1,600 last month, Mr. Smith said. Private, service-sector jobs and retail trade employment grew the most in June, offsetting job losses in manufacturing and government. KAREN DeMASTERS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN KEVIN SMITH (83%); ROSE A BIT (61%); KAREN DEMASTERS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



430 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 19; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: July 12-July 16;
A Happy Return to Technology Stocks

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE 

 BODY:
Investors hovered around technology companies like bees near honey, lifting the Nasdaq to three consecutive highs. For the week, the technology-heavy index climbed 2.5 percent. For the year, it is up 30 percent.
"This has been a technology rally, and I think that's good for the overall market," Barry Hyman, an analyst at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum told Reuters. "The technology sector has been and will remain the leading sector." 
 Otherwise, it was a ho-hum week on Wall Street. Companies reporting earnings revealed few surprises. And economic data that showed tame inflation numbers came and went relatively unnoticed. "If someone told me on Monday that the inflation figures would be just great, I would have thought that the whole market would really go up," Ralph Bloch, chief market analyst at Raymond James & Associates, told The Associated Press. "But that didn't happen because there's always something out there that can hold this market back."
 That something may have been the tension mounting between Taiwan and China, which sent Asian markets into a tailspin on Friday. Investors also waited for earnings reports this week from companies like I.B.M., Microsoft and General Motors. MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
Ziff-Davis
nyse: ZD
Because Softbank of Japan, the majority owner of Ziff-Davis, is refocusing its strategy on Internet companies, Ziff-Davis has hired an invest-ment bank to explore a possible sale of all or part of its publishing business.
Friday's Close: $18.00
Week's Change: +26.32%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Inktomi
nnm: inkt
The company, a provider of Internet directories, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commis-sion to sell as many as 3.3 million common shares, including 1.3 million to be sold by investors and executives.
Friday's Close: $123.00
Week's Change: -12.14%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Matsushita Electric
nyse: mc (A.D.R.'s)
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter added the Japanese consumer electronics maker to its list of 40 recommended global stocks. Shares in Japan had their biggest one-day gain in 13 years on Wednesday.
Friday's Close: $229.00
Week's Change: +14.50%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Amgen
nnm: amgn
Second-quarter net income rose to 50 cents a diluted share, 4 cents better than analysts had expected, on higher sales. Amgen said it would seek F.D.A. approval for an experimental treatment for rheumatoid arthritis.
Friday's Close: $77.625
Week's Change: +11.99%
EST. '99 P/E: 39.85
 
American Home Prod.
nyse: AHp
The drug maker halted shipments of its Rotashield vaccine after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention called for vaccinations to be suspended while scientists determined if it placed infants at risk.
Friday's Close: $53.375
Week's Change: -3.72%
EST. '99 P/E: 29.99
 
Viropharma
nnm: vphm
Shares gained 106 percent in two days before falling off after the unprofitable company said a study showed that its experimental treatment for the common cold had promise. It has not begun final-stage trials.
Friday's Close: $14.4375
Week's Change: +60.42%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Lear
nyse: Lea
The London newspaper, The Independent, report-ed that Ford was plan-ning to sell its Visteon unit to an unnamed bidder. Speculation hovered over Lear, but it and Ford declined to comment.
Friday's Close: $49.75
Week's Change: +8.89%
EST. '99 P/E: 13.47
 
Infoseek
nnm: seek
Walt Disney agreed to buy the 57 percent of Infoseek that it does not already own. Disney will combine Infoseek, the No. 4 Internet search service, with its Buena Vista Internet Group to form Go.com.
Friday's Close: $42.0625
Week's Change: -18.33%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: MEECE, MICKEY

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



431 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Improves Image of Birmingham but Not Racial Split

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala., July 14

 BODY:
For the last 20 years, each time he walked into the City Hall he transformed, Mayor Richard Arrington Jr. has passed by the name T. Eugene Connor carved into the building's cornerstone.
It is just a name now, one of a list of dead men who voted to erect the building, and most people do not even notice it. Even if it had included Mr. Connor's better-known nickname, Bull, the carving would still seem as out of place among Birmingham's new skyscrapers and polished corporate headquarters as a hieroglyph telling an ancient story of conflict. 
 That sense of distance between the snarling dogs of Bull Connor, the former Police Commissioner who became the symbol of intolerance in the days of the civil rights movement, and the placid, prosperous Birmingham of today is due in significant part to two decades of quiet work by Mr. Arrington, who will retire on Monday at age 64.
When Mr. Arrington took office in 1979 as the city's first black Mayor, Birmingham was still struggling to shed its national reputation as "Bombingham," the city where racial divisions became explosive in the 1960's and where any police shooting threatened to turn into a confrontation. One of Mr. Arrington's first efforts was to integrate and tame the Police Department, and the effect was immediate.
Dr. Bernard Kincaid, a black member of the City Council who is usually one of Mr. Arrington's sharpest critics, said: "At the time he became Mayor, if you were an African-American who was stopped by the police, you didn't know if you were going to be shot and a gun dropped beside you. Arrington stopped that dead in its tracks. The outright fear, that shook you down to your boots, is gone."
The city's economy, crumbling in 1979 after Birmingham's giant steel plants began to close, has been renewed by a carefully managed shift toward health care, biotechnology and banking.
The unemployment rate, which soared above 20 percent during the recession of the early 1980's, is now 4.3 percent, and new businesses continue to move into 80 square miles of largely vacant land Mr. Arrington annexed for the city's growth. Many of those businesses are taking advantage of substantial tax incentives that he has offered in consultation with a tight circle of local executives.
But for all that he has accomplished in the region, the Mayor remains a divisive figure in Birmingham. The son of sharecroppers, a former zoology professor whose political savvy cannot conceal a quiet, scholarly core, Mr. Arrington was never as forceful or well known as the other "first black mayors" who dominated their cities for 20 years, figures like Tom Bradley of Los Angeles, Coleman Young of Detroit and Richard Hatcher of Gary, Ind. Yet, like so many other black mayors, Mr. Arrington never attracted more than a small fraction of the white vote in his five terms, or established lasting biracial coalitions with other politicians or white suburbs.
Tens of thousands of white residents moved to the suburbs during his tenure, leaving the city with a 70 percent black majority and shrinking the population by 11 percent, to 252,997 last year from 284,413 in 1980.
An undercurrent of racial tension continues to define the region's politics, even at the smallest level. Last week, after the Arrington allies who control the City Council voted to rename a major street in his honor, white members of the County Commission grumbled that the new name would require merchants on the street to get new stationery.
"It has been good for Birmingham's image to have someone like Arrington, who is obviously smart and thoughtful, and provided steady leadership," said Robert J. Norrell, a historian of the civil rights movement at the University of Tennessee who lived in Birmingham for many years and worked for Mr. Arrington's first mayoral campaign. "But since the 1950's, Birmingham has been deeply and angrily divided over race, and he hasn't been able to overcome that. Of course, it's hard to imagine anyone who could."
Sitting in his office this week while aides scooped hundreds of honorary plaques off the walls and into packing boxes, Mr. Arrington was unapologetic about the exclusively black nature of his political organization, the Jefferson County Citizens Coalition, which became the main vehicle for black enfranchisement in Birmingham, often at the expense of biracial unity.
"Well, we never said whites couldn't come, but it was a black organization and we'd like to keep that in place," the Mayor said. "Political power was something blacks didn't have in this town until the 1980's, so we said, 'Let's organize, let's bloc-vote, let's mobilize.' Now people say we've got a political machine, and they resent it. But that's a copout. You can't blame everything wrong in Birmingham on Bull Connor and Richard Arrington."
Though it may have proved annoying to many white residents, his effective marshaling of black political power in a state long famous for its absence has made him an iconic figure to his supporters.
"From the first time I met him, I was in awe of him," said Norman B. Davis Jr., a black investment banker in Birmingham who recently was appointed Alabama's superintendent of banks. "This was a man with incredible vision, who knew what he had to do to keep the city strong despite white flight and the death of the steel industry. To many blacks, he'll always be a hero, but unfortunately, a lot of whites never gave him a chance."
Many white voters and elected officials were put off by what they saw as cronyism in the awarding of contracts and the hiring of key personnel, a sense that was only enhanced when the Federal Government began looking into those issues in a series of investigations in the 1980's and 90's. Mr. Arrington always said the inquiries were racially motivated, and in 1992 he spent a day in jail rather than turn over documents to the United States Attorney.
Two former allies were found guilty of fraud in connection with the construction of the Civil Rights Institute, a museum of the struggle for equality that is now a popular tourist attraction. Mr. Arrington was named an unindicted co-conspirator in a kickback scheme, but the Justice Department later withdrew that designation.
"He has taken care of his friends, but the only white people he cares about are the corporate leaders," said Craig Sanderson, who is white and the president of the Crestwood Community Association, which represents a mostly white neighborhood on the east side. "I think there are some good things that he did, but I wish he hadn't played the race card so often."
The city's physical face is also showing signs of wear in some places. Many roads, school buildings and low-income neighborhoods seem forgotten. Birmingham's symbol, a 56-foot iron statue of Vulcan that lunges over the city from Red Mountain, has deteriorated so badly that the council voted last week to spend $1 million to take it down before it falls. Private donors plan to raise an estimated $10 million to repair and restore it.
Mr. Arrington acknowledges that the most serious criticism from his opponents -- that he has neglected the school system -- is legitimate. Birmingham's schools now rank 109th out of the state's 128 school districts in achievement test scores, according to a recent study by The Birmingham News.
The ranking actually represents a recent improvement. The Mayor does not have direct control over the school system. But the City Council, which Mr. Arrington controls, appoints the school board.
"What I regret most of all is, I didn't know the schools were in quite as bad a shape as they were," said Mr. Arrington, who has eight children, most of whom attended public schools. "I just did not deal much with the schools, because I had a zillion other problems to deal with. I felt I had less authority and clout there than I did in other areas."
He is stepping down now, he said, because he has done all he can do and believes the city needs new leadership. But even his method of departure has caused a stir. Because he is leaving three months before his term is up, his close ally William Bell, the City Council president, will become interim Mayor and have a leg up in his campaign to succeed Mr. Arrington in the Oct. 12 election. Other candidates, including Councilman Kincaid, have complained that the move is a high-handed attempt to preserve the Mayor's dynasty.
"He cannot anoint his own successor," Mr. Kincaid said.
But unless the black vote begins to splinter badly, most of Mr. Arrington's successors are likely to be black, thanks to an assertion of power by the once-powerless that seemed unimaginable before he took office. Mr. Arrington is explicit in hoping that his successors will use the political tools he provided to create an eventual racial reconciliation that he could not achieve.
"When I was first elected, a lot of people expected this town to go to pot, and I think we surprised them," he said. "That's going to continue. And the next mayor won't have to fight a lot of the battles that I fought."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: After 20 years, Mayor Richard Arrington Jr. of Birmingham, Ala., has resigned, having helped the city become placid and prosperous. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (93%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM (ALA); UNITED STATES (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (93%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RACE & RACISM (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); ZOOLOGY (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); RECESSION (67%); TRENDS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; ARRINGTON, RICHARD JR (MAYOR) RICHARD ARRINGTON JR (97%); T EUGENE CONNOR (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



432 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Warns Against G.O.P.'s Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17

 BODY:
Stepping up his attack on Republican tax-cutting proposals, President Clinton said today that the cost of the tax bill moving through the House would rise to unimaginable levels and threaten the nation's ability to deal with its most pressing long-term problems.
Citing a new estimate by the Treasury Department that the cost of the House tax bill would "explode" from $864 billion over the first decade to $3 trillion in the 10-year period starting in 2010, Mr. Clinton said the country could not afford to allocate anywhere near that much money to tax cuts without first shoring up Social Security and Medicare. 
 Instead, Mr. Clinton said, Congress and the Administration should focus first on shoring up Social Security and Medicare, both of which will come under severe financial strain in the next few decades as the baby boom generation retires and life expectancies increase.
The Republican plan would also crimp the Government's ability to use projected Federal budget surpluses to pay down the national debt, and could eventually send the country back into a spiral of budget deficits and rising debt reminiscent of the 1980's, Mr. Clinton said.
"At the very time the nation will be confronting the demographic challenge of the baby boom," Mr. Clinton said in his weekly radio address, "the Republican plan will blow a $3 trillion hole in the Federal budget, threatening our ability to secure Social Security and Medicare for the next generation and risking return to the era of deficits with high interest rates and economic stagnation."
Tax cuts of the size contemplated by the Republicans, Mr. Clinton said in his national radio address, "quite simply are bad economic policy."
Republicans defended their plan as prudent, and said Mr. Clinton was straining to come up with a justification for why Washington should not return to taxpayers the growing pile of excess Federal revenue.
Democrats predicted dire consequences for the economy each time taxes have been cut in the last few decades, most recently in 1997, Republicans said. But each time, they said, the economy has been strengthened, propelling the United States to new levels of prosperity.
In the Republican response to Mr. Clinton's radio address, Gov. Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin said the Republicans are "drawing a clear line in the sand" with plans for a big tax cut.
"The issue of tax cuts highlights the differences between the parties," he said. "The Democrats, they see surplus dollars and they always look for ways to spend them on new programs; while Republicans see surplus dollars and they look at ways to cut your taxes."
The $864 billion plan, authored by Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, uses virtually all the surplus over the next decade except for the portion that goes to Social Security. It was approved by the committee along party lines on Wednesday, and is scheduled to go to the full House later this month. The Senate Finance Committee will take up a $792 billion 10-year tax cut on Tuesday.
Although Mr. Clinton has threatened to veto both bills or any blended version of them, he has signaled his willingness to negotiate a compromise.
Neither side, however, is quite ready to strike a deal. Republicans are intent on passing their bills, even in the face of a veto threat, to draw a clear distinction about their differences with Mr. Clinton and his party as the 2000 election approaches.
For his part, Mr. Clinton is happy to wait a few months, because White House officials believe Republicans are stumbling into a budget trap of their own making that will weaken their negotiating position.
Administration officials said Republicans will be unable to pass all the necessary appropriations bills this year without violating strict spending caps that both parties have pledged to honor.
Only after the Republicans' budget bind becomes clear, probably around or just after the end of the Government's fiscal year on Sept. 30, is Mr. Clinton likely to judge the time right for serious talks on tax and spending issues, Democrats said.
In the meantime, both parties are and testing out new arguments to keep the pressure on the other side.
Congress limits its long-term tax and spending projections to 10 years, judging that to be the longest horizon over which economists and budget analysts can make halfway credible estimates.
Concern about the long-term cost of the current House Republican proposal has been particularly acute among Democrats because of the way the plan works. Rather than putting the entire package of tax cuts into effect immediately, the plan phases them in gradually over the next 10 years to match the expected growth of the budget surplus.
As a result, it is not until the cuts are are fully phased in 2009 that their full cost in foregone revenues is realized. For the House plan, the cuts start out at $4.6 billion next year and reach $203.4 billion in 2009.
While clearly somewhat speculative if not outright guesswork, the Treasury study cited by Mr. Clinton today tries to project the costs starting in 2009, and to look in particular at some of the provisions whose costs could be expected to continue increasing at the fastest pace.
Among them is the proposed repeal of the inheritance tax on large estates. The lost revenue would be just $3 million next year, growing to $15.2 billion by 2009, according to Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation, for a total of $75.3 billion over the first decade.
But according to the Treasury estimates, the cost in 2009 would be considerably higher, $46 billion, and would grow to an average of $57 billion a year for the following decade, benefiting just a tiny handful of wealthy taxpayers and their heirs, said Gene Sperling, the White House economic adviser.
The central feature of the House tax plan, its 10 percent reduction in all income tax rates, would likewise show a steep cost increase, Mr. Sperling said, growing from just over $400 billion in the first decade to $1.5 trillion in the second 10 years.
"The reason why this is such a threat to our long-term fiscal health and our ability to preserve Medicare and Social Security is that this is exactly the period -- between 2010 and 2020 -- when Medicare becomes insolvent, when Social Security first comes under strain, and when we first see the challenges of the baby-boom retirement," Mr. Sperling said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Tax-Cutting Proposals in Congress"
Congress is considering two Republican tax-cutting bills. In the House, the Ways and Means Committee approved legislation last week cutting taxes by $864 billion over the next 10 years. On Tuesday, the Senate Finance Committee will take up a proposal that would cut taxes by as much as $792 billion over that period. President Clinton has promised to veto anything along the lines of either proposal.
Although they are similar in scale, the two bills take very different approaches to reducing taxes for individuals and companies. The following is a description of their main provisions.
 
Personal Income Taxes
 
HOUSE
Would reduce income tax rates by a total of 10 percent in four steps over 10 years.
Current tax bracket -- 15.0%
...in 2001 would become -- 14.7%
...and by 2009 would become -- 13.5%
 
Current tax bracket -- 28.0%
...in 2001 would become -- 27.3%
...and by 2009 would become -- 25.2%
 
Current tax bracket -- 39.6%
...in 2001 would become -- 38.7%
...and by 2009 would become -- 35.7%
COST -- $405 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would reduce the 15 percent income tax rate -- the lowest of the five brackets -- to 14 percent, starting in 2001. Would also expand the 14 percent bracket so that fewer taxpayers must pay the next-highest rate of 28 percent.
Cost -- $297.5 billion over 10 years.
 
Married Couples
 
HOUSE
Would reduce the so-called marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code that leaves many couples paying more in combined taxes than they would individually if single. The main provision would gradually increase the standard deduction for a couple filing jointly to twice the level of the standard deduction for a single filer (this year the deduction for married couples is $7,200 while the deduction for single people is $4,300).
COST -- $44.5 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would eliminate the marriage penalty. Married couples filing joint returns would have the option of filing single returns on a combined tax form, enabling them to take the standard deduction for single people rather than the standard deduction for joint filers, which is less than twice as big. But they would both have to take the standard deduction or itemize, and the change would not take effect until 2005.
COST -- $117.7 billion over 10 years.
 
Minimum Tax
 
HOUSE
Would gradually repeal the individual minimum tax, which was created to insure that wealthy people paid a fair share of income tax even if they were able to take advantage of deductions and other breaks, but which has increasingly applied to middle income taxpayers.
COST -- $81.5 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would limit the effects of the alternative minimum tax by allowing personal exemptions to be included in determining tax liability.
COST -- $96.1 billion over 10 years.
 
Savings and Investment
 
HOUSE
Would gradually repeal the individual minimum tax, which was created to insure that wealthy people paid a fair share of income tax even if they were able to take advantage of deductions and other breaks, but which has increasingly applied to middle income taxpayers.
COST -- $81.5 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would limit the effects of the alternative minimum tax by allowing personal exemptions to be included in determining tax liability.
COST -- $96.1 billion over 10 years.
 
Pensions
 
HOUSE
Would change a wide variety of technical rules to allow more generous pensions, and would gradually increase the maximum annual contribution to 401(k) programs, to $15,000 from $10,000.
COST -- $14.5 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
In addition to changes in rules for retirement accounts and 401(k) programs, would modify many technical pension rules to allow more generous pensions.
COST -- Included in savings and investment provisions listed above.
 
Education
 
HOUSE
Would increase the annual contribution on education IRA's to $2,000 from $500. Would allow the accounts to be used to pay for private elementary and secondary school expenses as well as college.
COST -- $3.6 billion over 10 years.
 
Would provide tax breaks for bonds issued to finance public school construction.
COST -- $2.5 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would increase the deductibility of interest on student loans by lifting a five-year limit on deductibility and increasing the income level that determines eligibility for the deduction. Would make permanent a tax break for employer provided tuition assistance and expand the program to graduate level courses.
COST -- $12.2 billion over 10 years.
 
Health Care
 
HOUSE
Would create a deduction for health insurance expenses for which the taxpayer pays at least half of the premium.
COST -- $34.2 billion over 10 years.
 
Would create a deduction for long-term care insurance expenses for which the taxpayer pays at least half the premium.
COST -- $8 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would create a deduction for health insurance expenses for which the taxpayer pays at least half of the premium.
 
Would create a deduction for long-term care insurance expenses for which the taxpayer pays at least half the premium.
Would create an additional deduction for caretakers of elderly family members.
COST -- $52.2 billion over 10 years.
 
Inheritance Tax
 
HOUSE
Would phase out the estate and gift tax, which is currently levied on estates and gifts valued at $650,000 or more.
COST -- $75.3 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would reduce the estate and gift tax. Would reduce the top rate to 50 percent from 55 percent and 53 percent. Would change the unified credit that excludes most estates from taxation to an exemption. Would increase the exemption to $1.5 million from $1 million starting in 2007.
COST -- $63.1 billion over 10 years.
 
Business Taxes
 
HOUSE
Would gradually reduce the capital gains rate paid by corporations to 25 percent from 35 percent.
COST -- $15 billion over 10 years.
 
Would allow multinational corporations to deduct more of their interest expenses.
COST -- $24.8 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would allow multinational corporations to deduct more of their interest expenses.
COST -- $14.8 billion over 10 years.
 
Miscellaneous
 
HOUSE
Would provide a variety of breaks to special interests, from makers of fishing tackle boxes to insurance companies and owners of nuclear power plants.
COST -- $6.2 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would provide breaks for a variety of special interests, from railroads to makers of broadhead hunting arrows.
COST -- $5.6 billion over 10 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (62%); MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (94%); MEDICARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); APPROVALS (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



433 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Aspen Journal;
Footing Security Bill for President Upsets a Big-Money Town

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: ASPEN, Colo., July 17

 BODY:
 This is a town of good and plenty, where a majority of the population can be divided roughly between the haves and the have mores.
While ski slopes in winter and cultural events in summer have made Aspen one of America's vacation meccas, it is now an impressive symbol of the nation's economic boom: for almost 60 percent of those who pay real estate taxes in Pitkin County, where Aspen is the county seat, their residences here are second homes. 
 And what second homes. Small Victorians near downtown sell for as much as $3 million; lavish houses hugging the surrounding mountainsides go for much more. But not all of Aspen's 5,600 year-round residents are always so thankful that they live and work in wonderland. A fair number of them are upset that the town government is absorbing the costs of a major Democratic Party event next weekend that will include a visit by President Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton.
The event is largely planned as a thank-you from the Democratic National Committee to some of its biggest campaign donors, 100 or so people who have given $50,000 each or helped raise $100,000. The weekend also includes a fund-raising picnic at the (second) home of Senator Dianne Feinstein of California.
Last summer, when the Democrats staged the first such weekend event here, Mr. Clinton's visit helped them raise about $1 million. This year, they expect to raise even more.
With all that money around, many Aspenites, including Sheriff Bob Braudis, cannot understand why local taxpayers have to pay for all the added security needed for a Presidential visit. Last year, Sheriff Braudis said, the event cost the town $89,000 for things like food, housing and even radio batteries for 300 officers from neighboring law-enforcement agencies who volunteered to help out.
"They were like flood victims," Sheriff Braudis said. "We housed them and fed them at the high school and gave them cots to sleep on. The janitor had turned off the boiler for the summer, so they all had to take cold showers, then wake up to pancakes for breakfast."
And it was not as if the volunteers got the glamorous jobs, he added.
"The Secret Service cleared the bridges, looking for any bombs," the sheriff said. "But then we had to guard the bridges 24 hours to make sure no one planted any. When Clinton went to sleep, so did the Secret Service."
While Presidential trips are fairly routine in their security requirements and the demands they place on the local venue, Aspenites assert that someone else -- the Secret Service, the White House, the Democratic Party -- should pay for what is essentially a political event.
The Aspen Daily News recently asked readers in its "Tipline," "Who should pay for Clinton's visit?" The paper reported on June 27 that "not one person believes that the local taxpayers should pick up the tab."
A collection of reader responses was printed under the headline "Tipliners to Clinton: 'Pay up, or stay out.' "
Mayor Rachel Richards, who prevailed in a four-way nonpartisan election last month, said she was thrilled to have the big-money Democrats in town. Ms. Richards played down any inconvenience they might be to the town or this year's $22.7 million budget, pointing out: "Aspen is a community that likes to have controversy before breakfast every morning. They need something like this."
Sheriff Braudis said he had appealed to the Democratic National Committee for a gesture of good will in the form of a donation to local charities to match the city's costs. His reasoning went this way: "If I have to pay $20,000 for this out of my budget, that's $20,000 I don't have for other programs."
So far, he said, the Democrats have not responded to his plea. But Jenny Backus, a spokeswoman for the Democratic National Committee, said, "The D.N.C. has not received any such request, and if we did, we would refer it automatically to the Secret Service."
At the very least, Sheriff Braudis said the local authorities now had a clearer idea of what help they must provide next week, based on experience. Last year, the sheriff said, he told Joe DiSalvo, the department's director of investigations and security coordinator for the event, to do whatever the Secret Service and the White House requested.
"We gave them the world," Mr. DiSalvo said, and that even included officers patrolling on horseback. But this time, Mr. DiSalvo told the Secret Service that the number of officers would be pared down to 175. And if the President's protectors wanted horseback patrols, they had better bring their own horses.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Aspen is a community that likes to have controversy before breakfast every morning," Mayor Rachel Richards says of the debate over a Democratic Party event in the city. (Jim Noelker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASPEN (COLO); UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); CITIES (78%); SKIING (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SHERIFFS (76%); COUNTIES (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); TAX LAW (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RICHARDS, RACHEL (MAYOR) BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



434 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Key Opposition Leader Joins Rally Asking Milosevic to Resign

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: KRAGUJEVAC, Serbia, July 17

 BODY:
A leading opposition politician, Vuk Draskovic, appeared today for the first time at a rally calling for the resignation of the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, and the formation of a transitional government leading to new elections.
Mr. Draskovic urged a festive crowd of about 20,000 people not to seek revenge or pursue a violent path that could lead to "civil war." While he spoke of the need for Serbs "to discuss and accept the shame for what was done in Kosovo," he also criticized NATO for allowing the Albanians after its air campaign to force Serbs from the province and asked, "Why does someone not threaten the Albanians with bombing?" 
 By attracting a crowd twice as large as his rivals did on Thursday here, some 80 miles south of Belgrade, Mr. Draskovic attempted to assert leadership over the democratic opposition to Mr. Milosevic and his Government.
But the crowd, although enthusiastic enough, fell short of party hopes for 30,000 to 50,000 people, and Mr. Draskovic delivered a passionate but wandering address. He gave his supporters little more direction than to keep demonstrating, in the hope that Mr. Milosevic will somehow agree to resign and call early elections.
Senior Draskovic aides said, however, that they had little hope that rallies alone, without evidence of serious cracks in Mr. Milosevic's police and armed forces, would bring any quick change in Belgrade.
Mr. Draskovic, who had been a part of Mr. Milosevic's Government for most of the war over Kosovo, had resisted the idea of street demonstrations until 10 days ago. But his rivals among the opposition, gathered as the Alliance for Change, were collecting thousands of ordinary Serbs in towns outside Belgrade for their own rallies calling for Mr. Milosevic to resign after the disastrous war with NATO.
Mr. Draskovic was also urged by a senior American diplomat, Robert S. Gelbard, in a recent meeting outside Serbia, to join his rivals in a common platform, to enhance the chances for a more unified opposition to Mr. Milosevic, who retains a strong grip over most national news media.
Mr. Draskovic is a bitter rival of Zoran Djindjic, the president of the Democratic Party and a leader of the Alliance. While the two men led the large anti-Milosevic street demonstrations of the winter of 1996-97, which forced Mr. Milosevic to recognize opposition victories in local elections, the two men quickly parted amid mutual charges of egotism and hypocrisy.
That rivalry worsened when Mr. Draskovic entered the Milosevic Government in January and Mr. Djindjic then fled to Montenegro during the bombing, saying his life was at risk from the police. Even today, Mr. Draskovic criticized party leaders "who left the country to hide or refused a call-up notice" to fight during the war, as Mr. Djindjic also did, saying that the draft was a form of harassment from Belgrade.
Some senior Draskovic aides admitted that this rally in Kragujevac, which is controlled by Mr. Draskovic's party and where he began his failed bid for the Serbian presidency in 1997, was as much aimed at asserting priority over Mr. Djindjic as hastening Mr. Milosevic's departure.
Mr. Draskovic has called for another rally next Saturday in Nis to try to increase the pressure on Mr. Milosevic. But he has criticized Mr. Djindjic's call for large marches on Belgrade from Serbian cities as both risky and likely to fail, and his aides are quietly pushing the Democratic Party to replace Mr. Djindjic as president, possibly with Zoran Zivkovic, the popular Mayor of Nis.
On Thursday here, other Alliance leaders called on Mr. Draskovic to join them, with his Serbian Renewal Party leading the Alliance.
But Mr. Draskovic said today that his party "will resist pressure to join anyone," and said that all parties should compete on their own in any new elections. But pressed by the Americans, he has allowed other opposition parties to have more access to Studio B, the Belgrade television station his party runs, and he has provided a radio frequency for the independent journalists of B92, a station taken over during the war by Milosevic allies.
The split between the parties of Mr. Draskovic and Mr. Djindjic, so visible in Belgrade, did not disrupt the ruling coalition here, said Vesna Pajevic, who is the deputy director of the city's executive and a member of Mr. Draskovic's party.
In an interview today, she criticized Mr. Draskovic for paying too little attention to the regions and their problems and too much attention to his personal position. She said, "We need unity and a concrete program to tell people exactly what you will do for them if they vote for you -- what you will do for the 60,000 unemployed here in Kragujevac," whose biggest employer, the car factory Zastava, was destroyed by NATO bombs.
On this question, Mr. Draskovic was silent today, although state television on Friday night led with a Government plan to employ 20,000 Zastava workers immediately and start making 50,000 cars a year again "soon." However fantastic the report, said Mrs. Pajevic's husband, Velimir, "it will give people hope and buy Milosevic more time."
Mrs. Pajevic said she urged Mr. Draskovic today in a meeting to worry less about winning over supporters of Mr. Milosevic and to seize the moment when the Government appears at its weakest.
But she admitted that the system the President created had deprived Serbs of self-confidence and made them unwilling to risk "what little they have."
Mr. Pajevic, a pediatric surgeon, said sadly: "There can be hundreds of meetings like this, but there is not a critical mass. People come and get it off their chests, and then they go home more quietly."
He laughed sourly. "Serbia has 178 parties and every party leader is an egomaniac," he said. "We have been very unlucky in both our Government and our opposition." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; DRASKOVIC, VUK; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



435 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-14 

Killings in Kosovo Put at 10,000
At least 10,000 people were killed by Serbian forces during their three-month campaign to drive the Albanians from Kosovo, according to war crimes investigators, NATO peacekeeping troops and humanitarian agencies struggling to keep up with fresh reports each day of newly discovered bodies and graves. 1
 
Opposition to Milosevic Grows
A leading opposition politician, Vuk Draskovic, appeared at a rally calling for the resignation of the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, and the formation of a transitional government leading to new elections. Mr. Draskovic urged a festive crowd of some 20,000 people not to seek revenge or pursue a violent path that could lead to "civil war." 6
 
Iran Students Halt Protests
Student leaders in Iran announced a temporary ban on pro-reform demonstrations but pressed the Islamic Government on a long list of demands, including the resignation of the country's chief of police. 4
 
Colombia Peace Talks
The rapidly deteriorating situation in Colombia has weakened President Andres Pastrana's hand as the Government heads into peace talks tomorrow with the nation's largest guerrilla group. 3
 
Albania Expels Terror Suspects
Albania expelled two Syrians and an Iraqi on suspicion of terrorist activities, according to Tirana police sources, who said American intelligence had uncovered evidence that the suspects were planning an attack on the American Embassy in Tirana. The announcement comes the day after reports that Defense Secretary William S. Cohen canceled a visit to Albania last week because of the possibility of an attack by the organization of Osama bin Laden.(Agence France-Presse)
 
Fighting in Southern Lebanon
Israeli warplanes staged raids on Hezbollah artillery batteries after guerrilla attacks on an Israeli position in the Israeli-occupied border zone, the police said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
NATIONAL 16-23
 
Navajos Say Government Failed Tribe on Royalties
A decision to block an increase in the coal mining fees paid to the Navajo Indians is at the heart of two legal actions brought by the Navajos. One lawsuit claims that Peabody Coal and two utilities unfairly influenced Federal officials to derail a report that would have increased fees by hundreds of millions of dollars. 19
 
Agency Initiative on Blackouts
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson will propose six steps to reduce electricity disruptions in severe weather in a speech on Monday, including Federal investigations of power blackouts like the ones that plagued New York and other cities this month, department officials say. 16
 
Seeking a Tougher Health Bill
A group of House Republicans, in defiance of their leaders, are trying to pass much tougher regulation of managed-care plans than the Senate adopted last week and say they can win if they can force a vote. House leaders, like the Republican-controlled Senate, are trying to stand firm against any legislation creating a right to sue health plans offered by most large, multistate employers. 18
 
Clinton Warns G.O.P. on Taxes
President Clinton said the cost of a tax bill moving through the House would rise to unimaginable levels and would threaten the nation's ability to deal with its most pressing long-term problems, as he stepped up his attack on Republican tax-cutting proposals. 20
 
Suspect in Slayings Talkative
A former fugitive suspected of killing nine people in three states was talkative after he surrendered this week, the authorities say. The suspect, Angel Maturino Resendez, talked with Houston police detectives about American foreign policy, economics, mathematics. 22
 
New Means to Catch Fugitives
A computer system that went to work this week gives the police in any community the ability to take a single fingerprint from a suspect in a roadside arrest and determine within minutes from the Federal Bureau of Investigation whether that person is wanted for a crime. 21
 
NEW YORK/REGION 25-31
 
A Search Is Under Way After John Kennedy's Plane Vanishes
A small plane carrying John F. Kennedy Jr., his wife, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, and her sister disappeared late Friday off the coast of Martha's Vineyard. By yesterday afternoon, some debris from the plane had washed ashore, but the search for further evidence continued. 1
 
A Grueling Struggle to Learn
This year, 58,000 third, sixth and eighth graders in New York City are back in class for extra reading, writing, and mathematics. The effort is part of Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew's program to end the practice of advancing students to the next grade when they are not ready. 1
 
Another Heat Wave Arrives
Workers for Consolidated Edison, emergency officials, police officers and hospitals were preparing for another heat wave, although the temperatures were cooler than those that seared the metropolitan region over the Fourth of July weekend. 25
 
Small-Town Pro Wrestling
Scores of independent wrestling federations have blossomed across the country in recent years, seizing upon a hunger among fans for increased realism and violence. 25
 
FRESH AIR FUND 29
 
OBITUARIES 33
 
Dharmawara Mahathera
A high-ranking Buddhist monk who advised kings and prime ministers and established a new life after the age of 90 as a Buddhist leader in the United States, he was 110. 33
 
Chess 31
Weather 31
Cong.Vote 30 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (82%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (82%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (89%); 

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (82%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (89%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); POWER FAILURES (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LEGISLATION (65%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (64%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (63%); COAL MINING (61%); ARMED FORCES (57%); POLICE FORCES (57%); RELIGION (53%); 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (77%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



436 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Congressman Quits G.O.P., Citing 'Extremists'

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: QUOGUE, N.Y., July 17

 BODY:
Representative Michael P. Forbes, a mercurial Republican who has frequently butted heads with House Republican leaders, announced today that he was becoming a Democrat because his own party had been captured by "extremists."
He accused the Republican leadership of being "tone deaf" to the concerns of average Americans on issues from health care to education to the environment. 
 Sweating profusely in the blistering sunshine during a news conference outside his gray-shingled home on Long Island, Mr. Forbes repeatedly slammed his former party's leadership with the kind of harsh oratory that Democrats once used against him.
"With no Communist menace to rail against, and with an American economy that is the strongest to be sustained in our lifetime, the national Republican Party over the last four and a half years has allowed itself to become defined through the actions of extremists in the House of Representatives," said Mr. Forbes, who is in his third term.
"It's become angry, narrow-minded, intolerant, uncaring, incapable of governing at all, much less from the center."
Democratic officials said Mr. Forbes, 47, is the first Congressional Republican to switch to the Democratic Party in nearly a quarter-century -- a period in which they said at least 10 Democrats in Congress flipped to the Republican side.
Mr. Forbes, who once did the unthinkable by voting against Newt Gingrich when Mr. Gingrich was running for re-election as Speaker of the House in 1997, has for years been an outcast in the Republican Party, and his defection is not expected to draw other centrist Republicans into the Democratic fold.
But the move still seems like an important psychological victory for the Democrats as they seek to capture the House next year. Before the defection, the Republicans had 223 House members and the Democrats had 210. With Mr. Forbes's defection, the Democrats now need to win just five additional seats to be in the majority.
"I really think you are seeing a party in a real state of difficulty," Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, said of the Republicans. "You may be seeing a realignment taking place."
House Republicans played down the significance of the move, suggesting that Mr. Forbes was a political loner who could be less than stable in Congress.
"Michael's decision to leave the resurgent Republican Party for the minority party is, like many of his past actions, inconsistent and erratic," said Representative Thomas M. Davis 3d of Virginia, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. "Last year, he voted to impeach Democrat Bill Clinton. Last month he endorsed George W. Bush for President and today, he chooses to side with the party of higher taxes and bigger government."
Mr. Davis said the Republicans would do "everything we can" to unseat Mr. Forbes next year. Among the names of challengers being circulated in Republican circles are the Suffolk County Executive, Robert J. Gaffney; New York Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr. and State Senator Kenneth P. LaValle.
Mr. Forbes, who won re-election last year with 64 percent of the vote, said he expected to be the target of Republican retribution not just in next year's election but also in the house, where the Republican leadership is likely to block his bills and strip him of his seat on the powerful House Appropriations Committee.
But Mr. Gephardt said he would ask Democrats on the Appropriations Committee, which allocates Federal funds, to step aside so that Mr. Forbes can retain his seat. He also vowed to do "everything I can" to get Mr. Forbes re-elected, though he said he could not promise that there would not be a primary.
At least one Democrat, Tony Bullock, chief of staff to New York's senior Democratic Senator, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, has said that he might challenge Mr. Forbes in the primary. But Democratic officials said today that an effort was already under way by party officials to urge Mr. Bullock to back off.
Mr. Forbes has told Democratic officials that he has not yet decided whether to retract his endorsement of Governor Bush of Texas, who is the Republican front-runner in the polls. In his news conference today, the Congressman was careful not to attack Mr. Bush directly.
Vice President Al Gore, who is seeking the Democratic nomination to replace Mr. Clinton, issued a statement today praising Mr. Forbes as a man of "principle and integrity."
In a sign of the symbolic importance of the defection, leaders in both parties waged a tug-of-war for his heart and mind in recent days.
Since Thursday, when the rumors began spreading in Washington that Mr. Forbes might defect, Mr. Davis, Alfonse M. D'Amato and Gov. George E. Pataki have called Mr. Forbes and asked him to reconsider, Democratic officials said.
Mr. Forbes first began toying with the idea of switching parties in early June at a dinner with two Democratic Representatives from New York, Eliot L. Engel of the Bronx and Gary L. Ackerman of Queens, said John Calvelli, Mr. Engel's chief of staff. The next week, Mr. Forbes discussed the idea with Mr. Gephardt, then on July 2 with President Clinton at the White House. Mr. Forbes said neither man made him any promises.
Mr. Forbes was elected in the Republican tide of 1994 that gave the party control of Congress. But he soured on the party after the Government shutdown in 1995 and after repeated efforts by conservatives to gut Federal environmental rules.
After he voted against Mr. Gingrich in 1997, he became a pariah in the party. But his stock seemed to rise last year when Mr. Gingrich quit Congress and Mr. Forbes's close friend, Representative Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana, was expected to become Speaker. Indeed, many Democrats say they Mr. Forbes voted for impeachment largely to please Mr. Livingston.
But Mr. Livingston also quit Congress when it was revealed that he had had an extramarital affair, and Mr. Forbes's fortunes fell once again.
Mr. Forbes is not easy to peg ideologically, and he will be somewhat to the right of House Democrats. He supports Democratic initiatives to expand Federal spending on day care, to protect the environment, to revamp campaign finance laws and to regulate health maintenance organizations. But he also opposes abortion and often votes against gun control.
In an indication of the balancing act Mr. Forbes may now be forced into, he was sharply questioned today at his news conference by an abortion rights advocate, an environmental advocate and a local Republican leader.
He said changing parties would not cause him to change his positions on major issues.
"My voting record is one I'm very proud of," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Michael P. Forbes of Long Island announced yesterday that he was leaving the Republican Party to become a Democrat. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 30)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; FORBES, MICHAEL P (REPR) BILL CLINTON (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); TOM DAVIS (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



437 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Political Briefing;
It's Taking Care Of Political Business

BYLINE: By B. Drummond Ayres Jr. 

 BODY:
Retail politics.
That's the first thing New Hampshirites mention when they argue that their state, more than any other, deserves the right to hold the nation's first Presidential primary. And the same is true of Iowans when they contend that their state should always hold the first Presidential caucuses. 
 By "retail," these proud New Englanders and Midwesterners mean old-fashion politicking in which candidates get down on the ground and meet and greet voters personally in their homes, in coffee shops and at small rallies. The impersonal "air game" of flashy television advertising that dominates campaigns in most other states, the argument goes, does not work in compact, folksy, down-to-earth New Hampshire and Iowa. Politicking in those two states, it is said, is like politicking used to be -- and still should be.
So far, most candidates buy that argument, or at least go along with it.
But is retail really retail?
The answer seems to be yes and yes -- that is, retail politics in a political sense really does bring unusually large numbers of candidates and voters face to face, as in clerk and customer, and in the classic retail sense, or business sense, in that it pumps money, big money, into the economy.
A new survey commissioned by the Library and Archives of New Hampshire's Political Tradition found that in the 1996 campaign, retail politicking resulted in one of every five New Hampshire voters personally meeting at least one candidate, and often more. By contrast, in a state like California, the average voter can go the better part of a lifetime, if not an entire lifetime, without meeting a candidate.
Further, the study found that all the running around, eating, advertising and renting of rooms, cars, auditoriums and workspace by candidates, political consultants and reporters, created 1,500 temporary jobs and pumped over $210 million into the New Hampshire economy.
"That's our answer for why New Hampshire works," former Gov. Hugh Gregg, the chairman of the Library and Archives organization, said in releasing the study.
The study, based on a survey of travel, business, tax and Federal Election Commission data, along with interviews with campaign workers and media specialists, also concluded that the New Hampshire primary offered the state a huge opportunity to promote itself at no cost because of the news media coverage given the quadrennial event. The state received more than 20,000 media mentions in 1996, the study said, going on to estimate that they were read, heard or seen by upwards of 150 million people around the country.
But if the promotion opportunity is to be fully exploited, the study added, the state needs to impress visiting reporters that more New Hampshirites hold high-technology jobs these days than milk cows and wear flannel shirts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LIBRARY&ARCHIVES OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY&ARCHIVES OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; IOWA; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (69%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



438 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Freeways Make an Easy Scapegoat for Sprawl;
Encourage Diversity

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Contrasting freeway-building policies in Salt Lake City and Milwaukee illustrates what this country is all about: people in different communities making different choices (front page, July 14). These cities are Exhibit A against the "smart growth" plan advocated by Vice President Al Gore, which would impose a single one-size-fits-all model from Washington. 
 A diverse society needs places like Milwaukee and Salt Lake City. The error belongs to neither city but to the "experts" who insist that every town must follow the policies they prefer.
 
JOHN L. GANN
Glen Ellyn, Ill., July 15, 1999
 
The writer is a consultant in urban development. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH); MILWAUKEE (WIS); UNITED STATES (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; URBAN AREAS; SUBURBS; LAND USE POLICIES; ZONING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (88%); WRITERS (86%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: GANN, JOHN L AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



439 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
BOSTICK, JUANITA DIANE

 BODY:
BOSTICK-Juanita Diane Age 68, of NYC, died on July 14, 1999, at her Tudor City residence. Funeral services will be on Friday, July 23, at 10 AM, at Ridout's Elmwood Chapel in Birmingham, AL, with Dr. R. Maurice Boyd of the City Church of New York, officiating, with burial at Elmwood Cemetery. Visitation will be at Ridout Chapel, Thursday, 5-7 PM. A "Memorial Celebration" is planned in NYC on August 19. For details call 212632-1308. Diane is survived by three brothers. Educated in Birmingham school system, Diane received her BS degree in home economics from the University of Alabama and did graduate study at NYU School of Retailing. After serving as Field Secretary for Phi Mu, she began her career with Avondale Mills in 1953 and climbed the corporate ladder from Designer in Sylacauga, AL, to Stylist, then Assistant VP in NYC, before being promoted to VP for Fabric Design in 1978, breaking the glass ceiling before others even dreamed of doing it and serving as an inspiration and advocate for career women. Diane was featured in articles in Women's Wear Daily, Daily News Record, Birmingham News and several textbooks. She served on the Home Economics Advisory Board at Auburn University, the Advisory Committee of the Institute for Women Executives at UA; and spoke to many college classes and groups. She was a member of: Women's Wear Committee Color Association of the US; the Fashion Group, Inc, serving on the Board of Governors and numerous committees; the NY Fashion Designers; International Needlepoint Guild; and Who's Who in American Women. Diane was a founding member of the City Church of New York; worked with the Talbot Perkins Children's Services; chaired a Benefit Concert for Project Hope; was active in Tudor City Association; was a member of the DAR and UDC. The University of Alabama was Diane's first love and she served it faithfully, and was honored by the University in return. She was Regional VP of the National Alumni Association; received the "Distinguished Alumna Award"; served on the Advisory Board of the Women's Athletic Program; was co-founder of The Greater NY Alumni Association, one of the strongest and most active in the nation. This chapter inducted Diane into its "Hall of Fame" and elected her "Honorary President" for life and established the J. Diane Bostick Endowed Scholarship Fund for clothing, textiles, and interior design students. The College of Human Enviromental Sciences twice presented Diane with The Agnes Ellen Harris Distinguished Alumnus Award, its highest honor, once for career accomplishments and once for her love and commitment to the College. Memorials may be made to the J. Diane Bostick Scholarship Fund, c/o The University of Alabama, Box 870158, University, AL 35487. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TUDOR CITY ASSOCIATION (69%); PHI MU (83%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (75%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (55%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHI MU (83%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (75%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (55%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ALABAMA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); WOMEN (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (87%); ALUMNI (85%); FUNDRAISING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INTERIOR DECORATING (75%); CHILDREN (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); TEXTILES (74%); ENDOWMENTS (74%); CLOTHING LABELS (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); TEXTBOOKS (70%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (68%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (68%); FABRICS (68%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); CHILD WELFARE (67%); 

PERSON: BOSTICK, JUANITA DIANE

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



440 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14NJ;Page 1;Column 1;New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: A Skirmish Over the Hepatitis B Vaccination

BYLINE: By LISA SUHAY

 BODY:
FOR as long as the vaccine for Hepatitis B has been in general use, some parents have been fighting it.
Now it is New Jersey's turn. 
 By late June -- the last legislative session before the summer recess -- a measure making the Hepatitis B vaccine mandatory for all school age children had already passed the State Assembly and was headed for a Senate vote.
Until that time, the State Department of Health had supported the measure. But then the Senate added an amendment, introduced by State Senator C. Louis Bassano, a Republican from Union, that would have allowed parents to decide whether to inoculate their children for Hepatitis B -- usually transmitted through sexual contact or intravenuous drug use -- and the measure was left off the legislative calendar.
At that point, state health officials chose to take the issue out of the hands of legislators and began writing a rule requiring the vaccination -- without allowing parents the option of refusing.
Mr. Bassano put it this way in a telephone interview: "They wanted the summer to write it themselves using the power to make rules and regulations to subvert the legislative process. They didn't want parents to have a choice and this was the way to achieve that goal."
Assemblyman John Wisniewski, a Democrat from Sayreville who was co-sponsor of the bill, said in a telephone interview: "The language in the amendment was just too broad. It almost seemed to negate the mandate. Still, I would have continued to support it if the Health Department had not made the decision to write it while the Senate was out of session for the summer. After all, something is better than nothing."
Mr. Bassano and some parents now say they are prepared to fight the department's mandate and demand public hearings on the basis of medical concerns and the right of parental choice.
"We're not talking about a childhood disease here," Senator Bassano said. "This is an attempt to deal with the problems faced by drug users, homeless people and those who keep company with hookers."
He said the health department supported the legislation until he added the amendment allowing parents a philosophical objection. Currently in New Jersey, parents can claim only a religious objection to vaccination.
Mr. Bassano said mandating the vaccine raised several questions that had to be addressed through the legislative process.
"Some parents in my constituency have concerns over the safety record of this vaccine," he said. "They say giving this vaccine to children is more risk than benefit. These questions were asked of me by parents and I think they should be considered publicly."
The Hepatitis B vaccine was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1986, and the advisory committee on immunization practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a recommendation for universal use of the vaccine in newborns and children in 1991.
The vaccination is now mandatory in 42 states -- including New York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Delaware. But for as long as the vaccine has been used, some parents have fought it.
The National Vaccine Information Center, a parents' group in Washington, issued a report last year stating that of the millions of children born last year in the United States, a total of 24,775 adverse events, including 439 deaths, said to be linked to the vaccine were reported to the Federal drug agency.
Barbara Loe Fisher, a co-founder of the group, said the raw numbers of reported adverse effects linked the vaccine to long-term "multiple sclerosis-like symptoms, including joint pain, and cognitive problems."
But a spokeswoman for the F.D.A., Lenore Gelb, cautioned against drawing conclusions from the data.
"We would have to separate out the reports filed from those complaints that we found to be really vaccine related," Ms. Gelb said. "There are a lot of things that happen to children that could account for the damage in the claims filed."
Aside from concerns over ailments possibly related to the vaccine, Senator Bassano said the number of reported cases of Hepatitis B among children in the state was too low to justify a mass vaccination.
He cited New Jersey Department of Education records for children, from birth to age 18, that showed only three cases of Hepatitis B among the state's children in 1997. In two cases, he said, the victims were 15 and the third was 18.
Speaking of the rules being drawn up by the Health Department, Mr. Bassano said: "They are trying to treat the wrong set of people with this vaccine. They can't reach the adults through education, so this is their solution. I think it is a poor one."
But Marilyn Riley, a department spokeswoman, said the mandate was part of a larger effort to update the state's vaccination rules.
"This is being done because all the department's vaccination rules are about to sunset in April of 2000," Ms. Riley said, referring to when the rules would expire. "That made it a good time to include the Hepatitis B vaccine in with the others."
She said the mandate would go through the Public Health Council and should be released in the next several months. "There is a 30-day period for public comment once it's written," she said.
But Mr. Bassano said that was not good enough, contending that his constituency wanted to add the parental choice amendment or stop the mandate.
While the New Jersey mandate will require all children be vaccinated against Hepatitis B by the time they reach school age, or age 5, Ms. Reynolds said hospitals had adopted the practice of urging parents to immunize their children at birth.
"I think it's because the baby is right there where they have more control over the situation," she said. "They were testing the mothers for the disease and deciding on a case-by-case basis about the babies. Now, I guess they just decided to skip testing the mothers and just immunize all the babies."
According to Ms. Reynolds, the Hepatitis B vaccine is the only inoculation given at birth. Children then get booster shots, one at 2 months of age and another at 4 months.
All other immunizations -- including measles mumps and rubella (MMR), diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DPT), polio (orally administered) and Hepatitis A and Influenza B and chicken pox -- are administered at 2 months and again at 4 months, 8 months and 10 months.
"Once the level of availability and use of a certain vaccine becomes routine and people get used to it, then states begin to mandate it," Ms. Reynolds said. "Since so many states are suddenly making these mandates, the Hepatitis B vaccine must have reached that sort of comfort level with the general public."
She added: "We cannot say that vaccines are 100 percent safe. We cannot say they are 100 percent effective. We can say that the benefits outweigh the risks.
Consider the risk from the diseases themselves. We cannot risk the return of these diseases."
But Jackie French of Cranford is not sure.
Mrs. French is the mother of three children aged 9, 6 and 2. She said her youngest child, Patrick, suffered permanent damage after receiving his third booster for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis.
Now she makes it her business to investigate whatever vaccine is proposed for mandatory use.
It was Mrs. French, pleading with Mr. Bassano, that led the Senator to look further into the issue and to draft the amendment allowing parents to forgo the vaccination based on philosophical objections.
"We were doing something to protect our child from disease and instead it has destroyed our lives," Mrs. French said.
Michael Belkin, a financial and economic forecaster from Manhattan, has been at the forefront of the fight against the Hepatitis B vaccine since the death of his 5-week-old daughter Lyla Rose in September 1998.
In May, Mr. Belkin was the lead witness in Congressional hearings into the Hepatitis B vaccine. He said his daughter became fussy after the vaccination, went to sleep and never woke up.
He said an autopsy ruled out choking, but found swelling of the brain. "Look in any neurology textbook and it will tell you about post-vaccinal encephalomyelitis, brain swelling following vaccination," Mr. Belkin said. "It can happen with any vaccination."
He called the Hepatitis B vaccine "the Ford Pinto of the vaccine world with the exploding gas tank. It should not be given to newborns or small children."
Sue Collins of Long Hill Township presents the kind situation that the state Department of Health worries about. She does not vaccinate her son for any disease, and plans to educate him at home.
Mrs. Collins said that after reading about the possible adverse effects associated with vaccinations, she chose not to inoculate her son Zachary, now 3, for anything.
Mrs. Collins, who runs a support group called Freedom of Vaccine Choice, said: "A lot of people don't want to hear about the risks. They don't want to buck the system. They would rather paint us as crazies or fanatics, when we are simply asking for the right to make an informed decision."
For her part, Mrs. French said that while she would never again immunize a child for any disease, she was not asking other parents to adopt her attitude.
"What I want is for parents to ask more questions and have the freedom to make the decision for themselves once they have learned all they can," she said. "Parents shouldn't have to lie to the government claiming some religious belief when they really object to the safety of the vaccine or the rational behind it."
 
Delay Urged for Vaccine With a Trace of Mercury
CHILDREN are vaccinated for their own good. In the case of vaccinations that contain a mercury preservative, health experts say that the number of shots given to small children may amount to too much of a good thing.
As part of the Food and Drug Administration's modernization act of 1997, the Federal agency was required to review and assess the risks of all food and drugs containing mercury.
What they found was that the preservative Thimerosal (methyl mercury) is present in such inactive, or nonlive vaccines, as those for Hepatitis B, diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DTAP) and Hepatitis A and Influenza B. It is not present in live vaccines like measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and chicken pox.
The drug agency then shared that information with the World Health Organization and the American Academy of Pediatrics.
Earlier this month, the pediatrics organization and the Public Health Service put out a joint news release that might have confused some parents.
On the one hand, parents were assured: "There are no data or evidence of any harm caused by the level of exposure that some children may have encountered in following the existing immunization schedule. Infants and children who have received Thimerosal-containing vaccines do not need to be tested for mercury exposure."
But the bulletin went on to say, "The recognition that some children could be exposed to a cumulative level of mercury over the first six months of life that exceeds one of the Federal guidelines on methyl mercury now requires a weighing of two different types of risks when vaccinating infants."
The risks, according to the release, include the possibility of contracting of a damaging or deadly disease through nonvaccination or facing the "unknown and probably much smaller risk, if any, of neurodevelopmental effects posed by exposure to Thimerosal."
A spokeswoman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Barbara Reynolds, said: "These vaccines have had mercury in them since the 1940's. The concern is not with individual vaccines, which are well within the recommended limits, but with the effect of giving multiple vaccines to children within the first six months of life. It is primarily of concern for low-birth-weight babies."
In the joint bulletin, the health service and the pediatrics organization recommended that the Hepatitis B vaccine, currently administered to newborns while still in the hospital, be delayed from birth until between 2 and 6 months.
As a result of the announcement, some states recently announced they would revamp vaccination schedules or at least consider the possibility.
On July 9, health officials in New Mexico asked parents to wait until children were between 2 and 6 months before administering the Hepatitis B vaccine, commonly given at birth. And last Monday, officials at with the New York State Health Department gathered to discuss the state's vaccination policy, a spokeswoman said.
"The schedule is flexible, and we are looking into altering it to recommend that the Hepatitis B shot not be given to newborns but to children closer to 6 months of age," said the spokeswoman, Kristine Smith.
The approach being taken by the centers is a request to drug companies to manufacture a mercury-free vaccine, a development that Ms. Reynolds said was more than a year off.
In the meantime, she said, "we recommend that children continue to adhere to their current immunization schedule." LISA SUHAY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the debate over vaccinating school-age children for Hepatitis B misstated the age at which the vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) is administered. It is given after children are a year old.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The vaccine for Hepatitis B is mandatory in 42 states. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Jackie French -- with her husband Tim and two of her children, Patrick, 2 1/2, and Sean, 9 -- investigates vaccines proposed for mandatory use since Patrick suffered permanent damage after receiving his third booster for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis. Susan Collins of Long Hill Township presents the kind situation that the state Department of Health fears: she has never vaccinated her son Zachary for any disease. (Photographs by Linda Rosier for The York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. HEPATITIS (92%); HEPATITIS B (92%); VACCINES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); PARENTING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: C LOUIS BASSANO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



441 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 1;Column 1;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Now That the Wars Are Over, Utopia Seems More Distant

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
THE warm and fuzzies have vanished from peacemaking.
There is a cold-blooded quality to the resolution of ethnic and territorial conflicts in today's world. Rosy visions of multi-ethnic harmony, often imposed by outsiders, have turned steely. Even the impulse to provide such visions as window-dressing seems to be gone -- from the Balkans, Northern Ireland and the Middle East. 
 Ehud Barak, the new Prime Minister of Israel, is determined to be the great peacemaker of his country's history, to resolve century-old conflicts once and for all.
But the former general, while he has traded in his olive drabs for an olive branch, does not spout a vision that could even remotely be considered utopian. His hard-nosed peace, which he presented to President Clinton in Washington last week, sounds less like something positive and more like a double negative: not war.
Mr. Barak, leader of the Labor Party, talks bluntly about putting up "high fences" between Israel and its neighbors. He primarily describes peace as a way to enhance Israel's security.
It is a baldly grim message compared with the idealism about regional cooperation, even harmony, voiced by predecessors who chose to wear the mantle of peacemaker. Mr. Barak's campaign pledge to "separate" from the Palestinians summed it up with a starkly unromantic slogan: "We are here and they will be over there."
Similarly, in the Balkans, there is very little official talk any more of forging or recreating mixed societies. In 1995, Tito's dream of unifying the South Slavs got a final nod in the Dayton peace accords, which, for public relations purposes, were wrapped in the rhetoric of harmony. But with Bosnia now rigidly divided and the Serbs exiting Kosovo, there is little pretense of establishing Serbian-Albanian friendship leagues.
Even as it urges Serbs not to leave, NATO is reconciled to separating peoples.
It could be argued that peace has always been more about exhaustion than aspiration. Belligerent parties finally realize they are not going to reach their objectives through armed conflicts; their people are tired of paying the price of sustained warfare.
But there does seem to be a change in the air, a new pragmatism that sees the hopeful dream of peace with harmony as naive, even as an obstacle to ending conflicts.
Perhaps it is a kind of battle fatigue with peacemaking, too; conflicting peoples would just as soon carve out a conflict-free zone and be done with it.
In Northern Ireland, peace the concept has become truce the (near) reality. Talk of integrating schools and sports has given way to divvying up parliamentary spoils and "decommissioning" paramilitary weapons.
In 1976, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to two Irish women, Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams, grass-roots peace activists who preached inter-religious reconciliation -- and led a movement that went nowhere. Last year's Nobel Peace Prize celebrated two unapologetic partisans -- David Trimble, the Unionist leader, and John Hume, the Irish Republican leader -- who attempt no straddling of worlds.
Last week, the continuing strains brought the pact close to a breaking point when Mr. Trimble refused to let members of a new power-sharing Cabinet be named unless the Irish Republican Army began to disarm. Such is the tense and guarded quality of this peace.
In the Mideast, Mr. Barak is not playing games with his tough talk.
A veteran of Israeli-Arab battlefields and someone who personally led missions to assassinate Palestinian terrorists, he is not inclined to hold hands with Yasir Arafat and sing "Kumbaya."
In an interview last week, Mr. Barak could not bring himself to echo Mr. Arafat's description of him as "friend and partner." He raised his eyebrows, said Mr. Arafat was not exactly a card-carrying member of the B'nai B'rith and settled on "partnerish rival" to describe him.
But, beyond his personal feelings, Mr. Barak is also acting in a perfectly calculated manner. As a leader, he does not want to go beyond what the body politic can endorse. And he has decided that the Israeli public cannot unite around a utopian notion of peacemaking.
Following in the footsteps of Yitzhak Rabin, who was assassinated by a right-wing extremist in 1995, any Israeli leader intent on forging peace agreements is going to tread cautiously through the ideological minefields.
For Mr. Barak to dress up his peacemaking as a visionary thing would be to risk violent social unrest at the worst or to face political paralysis at best. Israelis are prepared to swallow the bitter pill of making territorial concessions to the Palestinians and even to the Syrians. Like Mr. Barak, they are ready to free Israel of what he calls the "burden of ruling the Palestinians."
They are not ready to take down the barbed wire.
This hard-bitten approach mediates between the grand neighborly visions of some of Mr. Barak's leftist predecessors and the hostile skepticism of the Prime Minister he defeated, Benjamin Netanyahu, who said he believed in peace but never sounded conciliatory.
No less than Theodor Herzl, Israel's founder, envisioned a commercially integrated Middle East, although his writings reveal a keen colonialist mentality. ("The creation of our State would be beneficial to other countries," he wrote.)
DECADES later, when Abba Eban addressed the United Nations in 1967, he had a fully realized dream. "In peaceful conditions, we could imagine communications running from Haifa to Beirut and Damascus in the north, to Amman and beyond in the east, and to Cairo in the south," he said. "The opening of these blocked arteries would stimulate the life, thought and commerce in the region beyond any level otherwise conceivable."
Even the unsentimental Mr. Rabin, Mr. Barak's mentor, spoke of "turning swords into plowshares" and forging an economically integrated region.
But it was Shimon Peres, first as Foreign Minister under Yitzhak Rabin and then as the Prime Minister after Mr. Rabin's assassination, who became the Israeli leader most associated with the utopian vision of peace with harmony.
Mr. Peres scoffed at and continues to scoff at the notion of high fences. He coined the idea of a New Middle East.
Politically, he was mocked by many for his lofty thinking; one remark -- that hotels would be of greater strategic importance than checkpoints on Israel's borders -- is still repeated by his detractors with contempt.
But the reality of what is likely to transpire falls somewhere between Mr. Barak's and Mr. Peres's visions.
No matter what Mr. Barak says, the fact is that the Palestinians and the Israelis are not "here" and "there," not with settlements dotting the West Bank and a large Palestinian population living in Jerusalem.
In the immediate future, there is no real way to dissociate the two, not when Israel mans the borders, collects the taxes, employs 100,000 Palestinian laborers and depends economically on Palestinian consumers. And there will have to be cooperation if not collaboration -- on security, on the millennial tourism business, and so on.
MR. BARAK may be calling greater attention to building fences than bridges, but his new Industry and Trade Minister, Ran Cohen, said he plans to build industry zones "in a massive way" on the borders between Israel and the Palestinian territories and perhaps between Israel and Jordan.
"What is peace without economic agreements?" Mr. Cohen said in an interview. "Prime Minister Barak may not be highlighting it, but it is self-evident that this lies in our future."
On a grass-roots level, too, there are scores of local people-to-people projects that suddenly feel very free to flourish, from collaborations between Israeli and Palestinian firefighters, birdwatchers and tour guides to recent Internet chat sessions between Israeli and Lebanese teen-agers discussing the bombardment of Lebanon.
On the ground, then, the hard-nosed vision may be softened by those infected with the more idealistic view of peace, or with what Mr. Rabin referred to as the profit motive. "No one will come here because of our winning smiles," he said at an economic summit in Amman. "They all want to make money."
Down the line, even in Kosovo, the aspirations of peace with harmony may come back to life.
Partition plans and segregation are the crisis solution, but if Slobodan Milosevic were to be toppled someday, if a more democratic Serbia evolved, and if livelihoods could be restored, perhaps there could be a power-sharing arrangement with Albanian Kosovo.
Not far away, the European Union sits as a practical model of the power of commerce to reconcile old enemies; the message, however muted today, is not entirely lost on the Balkans.
Advocates of a grand peace may be out of fashion but they are not extinct.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a new, less optimistic view of peace around the world referred incorrectly to the political outlook of John Hume, the Catholic leader of Northern Ireland's Social Democratic and Labor Party. He is a nationalist who favors closer ties with Ireland, not a republican willing to countenance bloodshed to reach that goal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: West Belfast, Northern Ireland, where, as elsewhere, rosy visions of harmony are giving way to cold-eyed views of peace. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); SERBIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); SERBIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); DISARMAMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HISTORY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



442 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11;Page 5;Column 2;Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Sleepy Hollow, N.Y.;
A Sense of the Past In a Diverse Village

BYLINE: By CHERYL PLATZMAN WEINSTOCK

 BODY:
AFTER living in Beverly Hills for seven years, Laura and William Carraro, a freelance film producer, longed for the things they couldn't find there.
"I grew up looking at the Hudson River outside the window of my parents' apartment on Riverside Drive," said Mrs. Carraro. "I really wanted to be back looking at that river. I also wanted to live in a neighborhood where I could borrow a cup of sugar and where my kids could have a lifestyle where they could get off the school bus, dump their knapsacks and go out and play." 
 Also crucial to the Carraros was that their two children grow up in a diverse environment. "I think a lot of life's lessons are learned spending time with people not like you," said Mrs. Carraro.
Last year, the Carraros finally found the place for them -- Sleepy Hollow, a culturally and socio-economically diverse village sloping toward the Hudson replete with many historical landmarks.
When he was 16, Washington Irving hunted and fished in what is now Sleepy Hollow and was inspired by its customs and whimsical stories, said Henry Steiner, the village historian. Irving then wrote "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" about the schoolmaster Ichabod Crane who left a neighbor's party after he tried to court Katrina Van Tassel and encountered the Headless Horseman on the site where Major John Andre was captured with the plans of West Point during the Revolutionary War. Crane vanished as he rode away from the ghost along what is now Route 9, leaving behind a shattered pumpkin.
Though its connections with its Colonial past, evident in the Philipsburg Manor Restoration, make it an interesting village for children and adults alike, Mayor Philip E. Zegarelli said his village had other merits.
"Sleepy Hollow is really a mirror reflection of the greater metropolitan area," he said. "Its diversity from a socio-economic point of view and the blending of the different ethnic backgrounds present a challenge, but also provide a great opportunity to meld all the groups together."
ANDRES VALDESPINO, a villager who works in neighboring Tarrytown at his law firm, Valdespino Copland, said: "Although the Hudson River is a natural boundary of this village, there are few boundaries within it. This is not a bedroom community. It's more like a corridor. A lot of our neighbors work in town, or nearby and we all gather and play during lunch at the Y.M.C.A."
Barbara Eisert, a sales associate for Houlihan/Lawrence in Tarrytown and Irvington, said the village "used to be a harder sell because of its diversity." Now, she said, "whatever comes on the market sells fast. We have no inventory. Maybe because our name has changed it's put us on the map."
The Village of North Tarrytown was renamed Sleepy Hollow in December 1996. Since then, it has attracted many newcomers. Janet Nold, a broker who is district manager of Coldwell Banker in Tarrytown, said that quite apart from its river views and "affordable price ranges," there are myriad housing options ranging from multifamily homes and single-family dwellings to stately colonials and Tudors on the banks of the Hudson.
Ms. Eisert said housing prices begin in the $200,000 to $300,000 range for small, two-bedroom, one-bath colonials, ranches and Cape Cods on 50- by 100-foot properties around the village and in Webber Park. Houses in the $300,000 to $375,000 range are larger, but may back on to Route 9.
From there, she said, houses jump to $450,000 for 1940's and 1950's three- and four-bedroom ranches, split-levels and old colonials with about 2,200 square feet of space on a quarter to a third of an acre in Philipse Manor and Sleepy Hollow Manor. Both neighborhoods have many cul-de-sacs and river views. Ms. Eisert said that renovated homes in the Manors sell for $450,000 to $500,000 and that larger homes go for $650,000 to $750,000.
Nineteen condominium units are available in two town-house complexes, A.R.C.H. and Pocantico Park Condominiums. "But they rarely turn over," said Ms. Eisert. A two-bedroom town house with a one-car garage on the market is selling for $128,000.
Downtown there are also 415 two- and three-family homes scattered along Beekman Avenue and two federally subsidized low-income housing projects with a total of 117 apartments.
"Apartments are rented quickly," said Ms. Nold. They rent from $950 for a one-bedroom to $1,200 for a two-bedroom.
What the schools offer is as varied as the housing stock. "They really have something here for each individual child," Mrs. Carraro said. "They can address everyone's needs. From an academic standpoint of view, I think the district compares favorably to the Beverly Hills school district we left. I feel it's just as challenging."
Donald R. Kusel is superintendent of the 2,194-student Public Schools of the Tarrytowns. The district, which serves the village and adjoining Tarrytown, has five schools -- a kindergarten building, one for first grade, a second and third-grade building, the Washington Irving Intermediate School serving grades four through six and the Sleepy Hollow Middle School/High School.
Dr. Kusel said what made the district work so well -- with its diverse student body that is 8 percent black, 5 percent Asian, 38 percent white and 49 percent Hispanic -- was that "we encourage our teachers to experiment."
"A few years ago some teachers in the district began teaching first-graders Spanish after school," he said. "Then our teachers, on their own time, starting extending the classes to kindergarten and second grade and then integrated the curriculum into the school day. Now we're institutionalizing teaching Spanish."
HIS philosophy of melding the student body together is somewhat unique. "We prefer not to focus on a specific holiday, but to study about our students' different lives every day," Dr. Kusel said. "Even though we don't necessarily work a special day in with a party, we want our kids to know about it and we put it on the school calendar."
In addition to sensitizing the students about one another, Dr. Kusel cites as an example of his policies "our absolute commitment to run an advanced placement course even if only seven or eight kids register for it."
In addition to 15 advanced-placement courses, the district offers several computer science courses and a three-year science research course.
Of the 124 graduating students this year, 77 percent are going on to higher education.
The village has its own police and fire services, as well as the 235-bed Phelps Memorial Hospital Center, which includes a Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Satellite.
VILLAGE landmarks on the National Register of Historic Places include the Tarrytown Lighthouse on the Hudson, the Manor House at Philipsburg Manor, the Captor's Monument at Patriots Park where Major Andre was captured; Kykuit, the mansion that John D. Rockefeller and his son John D. Jr. built in 1913, and the Philipse Manor Railroad Station, restored by the Hudson Valley Writers Center three years ago. The center sponsors readings, courses, performances and other educational events there.
The Old Dutch Church of Sleepy Hollow, a massive stone and brick edifice built in 1685 and immortalized in Irving's ghost story, is also a national landmark. The church, which is still active, is one of six in the village.
The village has a plethora of recreational opportunities in more than 57 acres of parkland.
Visitors to the 18-acre county-owned Kingsland Point Park can picnic, fish and view Kidd's Rock where, said Mr. Steiner, legend has it that Capt. William Kidd conspired with Frederick Philipse to dispose of the pirate's treasure. The private Philipse Manor Beach Club has a 40-slip marina for its members. In 1996 the village opened a catch-and-release trout stream program at the section of the Pocantico River alongside the Old Dutch Church where Irving fished.
But the best opportunity for the village is yet to come.
In June 1996, the 2.8 million-square-foot General Motors plant just north of the Tappan Zee Bridge, which had been primarily producing minivans, shut down, displacing 2,100 employees and creating a large revenue gap for the village. Since then three proposals have been offered for redevelopment, all calling for a mix of housing, offices and retail space.
The proposals for the 96-acre property are now under consideration by both the village and General Motors, which before it closed the plant paid close to $1 million a year in property taxes and now pays $185,000, according to Deputy Mayor Mario DiFelice.
Deborah Lindsay, president of the Sleepy Hollow Chamber of Commerce, said that the anticipation of the development of the downtown had attracted many new restaurants to the village, including Casey's Tarry Inn, an Irish pub; La Pastora, a Chilean restaurant, and Hudson Restaurant and the Sleepy Hollow Castle, which serve American fare.
In 1693, Frederick Philipse owned 100,000 acres of land, including Slapershaven (sleepers' harbor in Dutch), which later became Sleepy Hollow. But because his descendant Frederick Philipse 3d was a Loyalist, the land was confiscated during the American Revolution.
A portion of the village became known as Beekmantown in the early 1800's, after Gerard Beekman purchased 750 acres of the property.
The village was incorporated as North Tarrytown in 1874. Farming and milling continued there until the late 19th century when several manufacturers moved in. General Motors opened its complex in 1918.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Gazetteer chart last Sunday, about Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., misstated the area code. It is 914. The chart also misstated the rush-hour commuting time. It is 42 minutes, not 53.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "On the Market" -- 4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath colonial, porch at 19 Pine Street, $270,000. 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath colonial, deck, at 8 Kelbourne Avenue, $429,000. 5-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath Tudor, 3 fireplaces at 205 Hunter Avenue, $525,000. A couple admire the view to the north of Tarrytown Lighthouse and Tappan Zee Bridge, left. Village Hall on Beekman Avenue looking toward the Hudson River. Homes on Farrington Avenue between Bellwood and Monroe Avenues.
(Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 8,431 (1997 estimate).
AREA: 2.27 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $51,767 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOME: $350,000.
TAXES ON MEDIAN-PRICED HOME: $8,800.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $315,000.
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $280,000.
MIDRANGE RENT FOR A 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,175.
MEDIAN PRICE OF 2-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $120,000.
PUBLIC-SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $10,866.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 25 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 53 minutes on Metro-North's Hudson Line, $7.50 one way, $163 monthly.
GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Philip E. Zegarelli, Republican) and 6 trustees, all elected to two-year terms.
CODES: Area, 516; ZIP, 10591.
THE GREAT EQUALIZER: Those interred in the Old Dutch Burying Ground and the adjoining Sleepy Hollow Cemetery are as diverse as the village's residents. The tombstones recall the names of the first Dutch settlers and Revolutionary patriots, as well as Samuel Gompers, Walter Chrysler, William Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie and Washington Irving. And years ago, someone put a brass marker in the Old Dutch Burying Ground for the Headless Horseman, which has yet to be removed.
 
Map of Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., and surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); HISTORY (72%); MAYORS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); CITIES (68%); 

PERSON: BARBARA EISERT (71%); WILLIAM CARRARO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



443 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14NJ;Page 1;Column 1;New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: A Skirmish Over the Hepatitis B Vaccination

BYLINE: By LISA SUHAY

 BODY:
FOR as long as the vaccine for Hepatitis B has been in general use, some parents have been fighting it.
Now it is New Jersey's turn. 
 By late June -- the last legislative session before the summer recess -- a measure making the Hepatitis B vaccine mandatory for all school age children had already passed the State Assembly and was headed for a Senate vote.
Until that time, the State Department of Health had supported the measure. But then the Senate added an amendment, introduced by State Senator C. Louis Bassano, a Republican from Union, that would have allowed parents to decide whether to inoculate their children for Hepatitis B -- usually transmitted through sexual contact or intravenuous drug use -- and the measure was left off the legislative calendar.
At that point, state health officials chose to take the issue out of the hands of legislators and began writing a rule requiring the vaccination -- without allowing parents the option of refusing.
Mr. Bassano put it this way in a telephone interview: "They wanted the summer to write it themselves using the power to make rules and regulations to subvert the legislative process. They didn't want parents to have a choice and this was the way to achieve that goal."
Assemblyman John Wisniewski, a Democrat from Sayreville who was co-sponsor of the bill, said in a telephone interview: "The language in the amendment was just too broad. It almost seemed to negate the mandate. Still, I would have continued to support it if the Health Department had not made the decision to write it while the Senate was out of session for the summer. After all, something is better than nothing."
Mr. Bassano and some parents now say they are prepared to fight the department's mandate and demand public hearings on the basis of medical concerns and the right of parental choice.
"We're not talking about a childhood disease here," Senator Bassano said. "This is an attempt to deal with the problems faced by drug users, homeless people and those who keep company with hookers."
He said the health department supported the legislation until he added the amendment allowing parents a philosophical objection. Currently in New Jersey, parents can claim only a religious objection to vaccination.
Mr. Bassano said mandating the vaccine raised several questions that had to be addressed through the legislative process.
"Some parents in my constituency have concerns over the safety record of this vaccine," he said. "They say giving this vaccine to children is more risk than benefit. These questions were asked of me by parents and I think they should be considered publicly."
The Hepatitis B vaccine was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1986, and the advisory committee on immunization practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a recommendation for universal use of the vaccine in newborns and children in 1991.
The vaccination is now mandatory in 42 states -- including New York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and Delaware. But for as long as the vaccine has been used, some parents have fought it.
The National Vaccine Information Center, a parents' group in Washington, issued a report last year stating that of the millions of children born last year in the United States, a total of 24,775 adverse events, including 439 deaths, said to be linked to the vaccine were reported to the Federal drug agency.
Barbara Loe Fisher, a co-founder of the group, said the raw numbers of reported adverse effects linked the vaccine to long-term "multiple sclerosis-like symptoms, including joint pain, and cognitive problems."
But a spokeswoman for the F.D.A., Lenore Gelb, cautioned against drawing conclusions from the data.
"We would have to separate out the reports filed from those complaints that we found to be really vaccine related," Ms. Gelb said. "There are a lot of things that happen to children that could account for the damage in the claims filed."
Aside from concerns over ailments possibly related to the vaccine, Senator Bassano said the number of reported cases of Hepatitis B among children in the state was too low to justify a mass vaccination.
He cited New Jersey Department of Education records for children, from birth to age 18, that showed only three cases of Hepatitis B among the state's children in 1997. In two cases, he said, the victims were 15 and the third was 18.
Speaking of the rules being drawn up by the Health Department, Mr. Bassano said: "They are trying to treat the wrong set of people with this vaccine. They can't reach the adults through education, so this is their solution. I think it is a poor one."
But Marilyn Riley, a department spokeswoman, said the mandate was part of a larger effort to update the state's vaccination rules.
"This is being done because all the department's vaccination rules are about to sunset in April of 2000," Ms. Riley said, referring to when the rules would expire. "That made it a good time to include the Hepatitis B vaccine in with the others."
She said the mandate would go through the Public Health Council and should be released in the next several months. "There is a 30-day period for public comment once it's written," she said.
But Mr. Bassano said that was not good enough, contending that his constituency wanted to add the parental choice amendment or stop the mandate.
While the New Jersey mandate will require all children be vaccinated against Hepatitis B by the time they reach school age, or age 5, Ms. Reynolds said hospitals had adopted the practice of urging parents to immunize their children at birth.
"I think it's because the baby is right there where they have more control over the situation," she said. "They were testing the mothers for the disease and deciding on a case-by-case basis about the babies. Now, I guess they just decided to skip testing the mothers and just immunize all the babies."
According to Ms. Reynolds, the Hepatitis B vaccine is the only inoculation given at birth. Children then get booster shots, one at 2 months of age and another at 4 months.
All other immunizations -- including measles mumps and rubella (MMR), diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DPT), polio (orally administered) and Hepatitis A and Influenza B and chicken pox -- are administered at 2 months and again at 4 months, 8 months and 10 months.
"Once the level of availability and use of a certain vaccine becomes routine and people get used to it, then states begin to mandate it," Ms. Reynolds said. "Since so many states are suddenly making these mandates, the Hepatitis B vaccine must have reached that sort of comfort level with the general public."
She added: "We cannot say that vaccines are 100 percent safe. We cannot say they are 100 percent effective. We can say that the benefits outweigh the risks.
Consider the risk from the diseases themselves. We cannot risk the return of these diseases."
But Jackie French of Cranford is not sure.
Mrs. French is the mother of three children aged 9, 6 and 2. She said her youngest child, Patrick, suffered permanent damage after receiving his third booster for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis.
Now she makes it her business to investigate whatever vaccine is proposed for mandatory use.
It was Mrs. French, pleading with Mr. Bassano, that led the Senator to look further into the issue and to draft the amendment allowing parents to forgo the vaccination based on philosophical objections.
"We were doing something to protect our child from disease and instead it has destroyed our lives," Mrs. French said.
Michael Belkin, a financial and economic forecaster from Manhattan, has been at the forefront of the fight against the Hepatitis B vaccine since the death of his 5-week-old daughter Lyla Rose in September 1998.
In May, Mr. Belkin was the lead witness in Congressional hearings into the Hepatitis B vaccine. He said his daughter became fussy after the vaccination, went to sleep and never woke up.
He said an autopsy ruled out choking, but found swelling of the brain. "Look in any neurology textbook and it will tell you about post-vaccinal encephalomyelitis, brain swelling following vaccination," Mr. Belkin said. "It can happen with any vaccination."
He called the Hepatitis B vaccine "the Ford Pinto of the vaccine world with the exploding gas tank. It should not be given to newborns or small children."
Sue Collins of Long Hill Township presents the kind situation that the state Department of Health worries about. She does not vaccinate her son for any disease, and plans to educate him at home.
Mrs. Collins said that after reading about the possible adverse effects associated with vaccinations, she chose not to inoculate her son Zachary, now 3, for anything.
Mrs. Collins, who runs a support group called Freedom of Vaccine Choice, said: "A lot of people don't want to hear about the risks. They don't want to buck the system. They would rather paint us as crazies or fanatics, when we are simply asking for the right to make an informed decision."
For her part, Mrs. French said that while she would never again immunize a child for any disease, she was not asking other parents to adopt her attitude.
"What I want is for parents to ask more questions and have the freedom to make the decision for themselves once they have learned all they can," she said. "Parents shouldn't have to lie to the government claiming some religious belief when they really object to the safety of the vaccine or the rational behind it."
 
Delay Urged for Vaccine With a Trace of Mercury
CHILDREN are vaccinated for their own good. In the case of vaccinations that contain a mercury preservative, health experts say that the number of shots given to small children may amount to too much of a good thing.
As part of the Food and Drug Administration's modernization act of 1997, the Federal agency was required to review and assess the risks of all food and drugs containing mercury.
What they found was that the preservative Thimerosal (methyl mercury) is present in such inactive, or nonlive vaccines, as those for Hepatitis B, diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DTAP) and Hepatitis A and Influenza B. It is not present in live vaccines like measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and chicken pox.
The drug agency then shared that information with the World Health Organization and the American Academy of Pediatrics.
Earlier this month, the pediatrics organization and the Public Health Service put out a joint news release that might have confused some parents.
On the one hand, parents were assured: "There are no data or evidence of any harm caused by the level of exposure that some children may have encountered in following the existing immunization schedule. Infants and children who have received Thimerosal-containing vaccines do not need to be tested for mercury exposure."
But the bulletin went on to say, "The recognition that some children could be exposed to a cumulative level of mercury over the first six months of life that exceeds one of the Federal guidelines on methyl mercury now requires a weighing of two different types of risks when vaccinating infants."
The risks, according to the release, include the possibility of contracting of a damaging or deadly disease through nonvaccination or facing the "unknown and probably much smaller risk, if any, of neurodevelopmental effects posed by exposure to Thimerosal."
A spokeswoman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Barbara Reynolds, said: "These vaccines have had mercury in them since the 1940's. The concern is not with individual vaccines, which are well within the recommended limits, but with the effect of giving multiple vaccines to children within the first six months of life. It is primarily of concern for low-birth-weight babies."
In the joint bulletin, the health service and the pediatrics organization recommended that the Hepatitis B vaccine, currently administered to newborns while still in the hospital, be delayed from birth until between 2 and 6 months.
As a result of the announcement, some states recently announced they would revamp vaccination schedules or at least consider the possibility.
On July 9, health officials in New Mexico asked parents to wait until children were between 2 and 6 months before administering the Hepatitis B vaccine, commonly given at birth. And last Monday, officials at with the New York State Health Department gathered to discuss the state's vaccination policy, a spokeswoman said.
"The schedule is flexible, and we are looking into altering it to recommend that the Hepatitis B shot not be given to newborns but to children closer to 6 months of age," said the spokeswoman, Kristine Smith.
The approach being taken by the centers is a request to drug companies to manufacture a mercury-free vaccine, a development that Ms. Reynolds said was more than a year off.
In the meantime, she said, "we recommend that children continue to adhere to their current immunization schedule." LISA SUHAY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the debate over vaccinating school-age children for Hepatitis B misstated the age at which the vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) is administered. It is given after children are a year old.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The vaccine for Hepatitis B is mandatory in 42 states. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Jackie French -- with her husband Tim and two of her children, Patrick, 2 1/2, and Sean, 9 -- investigates vaccines proposed for mandatory use since Patrick suffered permanent damage after receiving his third booster for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis. Susan Collins of Long Hill Township presents the kind situation that the state Department of Health fears: she has never vaccinated her son Zachary for any disease. (Photographs by Linda Rosier for The York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. HEPATITIS (92%); HEPATITIS B (92%); VACCINES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); PARENTING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: C LOUIS BASSANO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



444 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 1;Column 1;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Now That the Wars Are Over, Utopia Seems More Distant

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
THE warm and fuzzies have vanished from peacemaking.
There is a cold-blooded quality to the resolution of ethnic and territorial conflicts in today's world. Rosy visions of multi-ethnic harmony, often imposed by outsiders, have turned steely. Even the impulse to provide such visions as window-dressing seems to be gone -- from the Balkans, Northern Ireland and the Middle East. 
 Ehud Barak, the new Prime Minister of Israel, is determined to be the great peacemaker of his country's history, to resolve century-old conflicts once and for all.
But the former general, while he has traded in his olive drabs for an olive branch, does not spout a vision that could even remotely be considered utopian. His hard-nosed peace, which he presented to President Clinton in Washington last week, sounds less like something positive and more like a double negative: not war.
Mr. Barak, leader of the Labor Party, talks bluntly about putting up "high fences" between Israel and its neighbors. He primarily describes peace as a way to enhance Israel's security.
It is a baldly grim message compared with the idealism about regional cooperation, even harmony, voiced by predecessors who chose to wear the mantle of peacemaker. Mr. Barak's campaign pledge to "separate" from the Palestinians summed it up with a starkly unromantic slogan: "We are here and they will be over there."
Similarly, in the Balkans, there is very little official talk any more of forging or recreating mixed societies. In 1995, Tito's dream of unifying the South Slavs got a final nod in the Dayton peace accords, which, for public relations purposes, were wrapped in the rhetoric of harmony. But with Bosnia now rigidly divided and the Serbs exiting Kosovo, there is little pretense of establishing Serbian-Albanian friendship leagues.
Even as it urges Serbs not to leave, NATO is reconciled to separating peoples.
It could be argued that peace has always been more about exhaustion than aspiration. Belligerent parties finally realize they are not going to reach their objectives through armed conflicts; their people are tired of paying the price of sustained warfare.
But there does seem to be a change in the air, a new pragmatism that sees the hopeful dream of peace with harmony as naive, even as an obstacle to ending conflicts.
Perhaps it is a kind of battle fatigue with peacemaking, too; conflicting peoples would just as soon carve out a conflict-free zone and be done with it.
In Northern Ireland, peace the concept has become truce the (near) reality. Talk of integrating schools and sports has given way to divvying up parliamentary spoils and "decommissioning" paramilitary weapons.
In 1976, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to two Irish women, Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams, grass-roots peace activists who preached inter-religious reconciliation -- and led a movement that went nowhere. Last year's Nobel Peace Prize celebrated two unapologetic partisans -- David Trimble, the Unionist leader, and John Hume, the Irish Republican leader -- who attempt no straddling of worlds.
Last week, the continuing strains brought the pact close to a breaking point when Mr. Trimble refused to let members of a new power-sharing Cabinet be named unless the Irish Republican Army began to disarm. Such is the tense and guarded quality of this peace.
In the Mideast, Mr. Barak is not playing games with his tough talk.
A veteran of Israeli-Arab battlefields and someone who personally led missions to assassinate Palestinian terrorists, he is not inclined to hold hands with Yasir Arafat and sing "Kumbaya."
In an interview last week, Mr. Barak could not bring himself to echo Mr. Arafat's description of him as "friend and partner." He raised his eyebrows, said Mr. Arafat was not exactly a card-carrying member of the B'nai B'rith and settled on "partnerish rival" to describe him.
But, beyond his personal feelings, Mr. Barak is also acting in a perfectly calculated manner. As a leader, he does not want to go beyond what the body politic can endorse. And he has decided that the Israeli public cannot unite around a utopian notion of peacemaking.
Following in the footsteps of Yitzhak Rabin, who was assassinated by a right-wing extremist in 1995, any Israeli leader intent on forging peace agreements is going to tread cautiously through the ideological minefields.
For Mr. Barak to dress up his peacemaking as a visionary thing would be to risk violent social unrest at the worst or to face political paralysis at best. Israelis are prepared to swallow the bitter pill of making territorial concessions to the Palestinians and even to the Syrians. Like Mr. Barak, they are ready to free Israel of what he calls the "burden of ruling the Palestinians."
They are not ready to take down the barbed wire.
This hard-bitten approach mediates between the grand neighborly visions of some of Mr. Barak's leftist predecessors and the hostile skepticism of the Prime Minister he defeated, Benjamin Netanyahu, who said he believed in peace but never sounded conciliatory.
No less than Theodor Herzl, Israel's founder, envisioned a commercially integrated Middle East, although his writings reveal a keen colonialist mentality. ("The creation of our State would be beneficial to other countries," he wrote.)
DECADES later, when Abba Eban addressed the United Nations in 1967, he had a fully realized dream. "In peaceful conditions, we could imagine communications running from Haifa to Beirut and Damascus in the north, to Amman and beyond in the east, and to Cairo in the south," he said. "The opening of these blocked arteries would stimulate the life, thought and commerce in the region beyond any level otherwise conceivable."
Even the unsentimental Mr. Rabin, Mr. Barak's mentor, spoke of "turning swords into plowshares" and forging an economically integrated region.
But it was Shimon Peres, first as Foreign Minister under Yitzhak Rabin and then as the Prime Minister after Mr. Rabin's assassination, who became the Israeli leader most associated with the utopian vision of peace with harmony.
Mr. Peres scoffed at and continues to scoff at the notion of high fences. He coined the idea of a New Middle East.
Politically, he was mocked by many for his lofty thinking; one remark -- that hotels would be of greater strategic importance than checkpoints on Israel's borders -- is still repeated by his detractors with contempt.
But the reality of what is likely to transpire falls somewhere between Mr. Barak's and Mr. Peres's visions.
No matter what Mr. Barak says, the fact is that the Palestinians and the Israelis are not "here" and "there," not with settlements dotting the West Bank and a large Palestinian population living in Jerusalem.
In the immediate future, there is no real way to dissociate the two, not when Israel mans the borders, collects the taxes, employs 100,000 Palestinian laborers and depends economically on Palestinian consumers. And there will have to be cooperation if not collaboration -- on security, on the millennial tourism business, and so on.
MR. BARAK may be calling greater attention to building fences than bridges, but his new Industry and Trade Minister, Ran Cohen, said he plans to build industry zones "in a massive way" on the borders between Israel and the Palestinian territories and perhaps between Israel and Jordan.
"What is peace without economic agreements?" Mr. Cohen said in an interview. "Prime Minister Barak may not be highlighting it, but it is self-evident that this lies in our future."
On a grass-roots level, too, there are scores of local people-to-people projects that suddenly feel very free to flourish, from collaborations between Israeli and Palestinian firefighters, birdwatchers and tour guides to recent Internet chat sessions between Israeli and Lebanese teen-agers discussing the bombardment of Lebanon.
On the ground, then, the hard-nosed vision may be softened by those infected with the more idealistic view of peace, or with what Mr. Rabin referred to as the profit motive. "No one will come here because of our winning smiles," he said at an economic summit in Amman. "They all want to make money."
Down the line, even in Kosovo, the aspirations of peace with harmony may come back to life.
Partition plans and segregation are the crisis solution, but if Slobodan Milosevic were to be toppled someday, if a more democratic Serbia evolved, and if livelihoods could be restored, perhaps there could be a power-sharing arrangement with Albanian Kosovo.
Not far away, the European Union sits as a practical model of the power of commerce to reconcile old enemies; the message, however muted today, is not entirely lost on the Balkans.
Advocates of a grand peace may be out of fashion but they are not extinct.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a new, less optimistic view of peace around the world referred incorrectly to the political outlook of John Hume, the Catholic leader of Northern Ireland's Social Democratic and Labor Party. He is a nationalist who favors closer ties with Ireland, not a republican willing to countenance bloodshed to reach that goal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: West Belfast, Northern Ireland, where, as elsewhere, rosy visions of harmony are giving way to cold-eyed views of peace. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); SERBIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); SERBIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); DISARMAMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HISTORY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



445 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 11; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 7-18-99;
Debt Voyeurs

BYLINE: By Margaret Talbot; Margaret Talbot, a contributing writer for the magazine, is a senior fellow at the New America Foundation.

 BODY:
When it comes to living large on pilfered cash, Martin Frankel -- who is accused of making off with $335 million -- deserves all the attention he has been getting. Here was a guy nervy enough to make a to-do list on which item one was launder money. A guy who secured the use of the Vatican's bank account for his financial chicanery. An essentially geeky guy, by all accounts, whose tastes in spending ran to satellite dishes, computer terminals, bondage videos and bodacious female "retainers." (Yeah, baby!) Yet Frankel's saga of economic malfeasance hasn't held my attention the way the saga of Leonard and Elfreda Massie did.
Now the Massies were no Martin Frankels. They were debtors, not swindlers. Their tastes were bourgeois. But like Frankel, they, too were creatures of this economic moment: outsize spendthrifts who hid in plain sight amid the countless other cases of what the economist Robert H. Frank calls "luxury fever." 
 Working as public-school administrators (Elfreda Massie was the leading candidate for superintendent of schools in affluent Montgomery County, Md.), the couple earned a total of $180,000 a year and lived in a $350,000 home. Alas, the Massies had 24 credit cards, and they liked to use them. When they finally filed for bankruptcy, they were more than $800,000 in the red, with $10 in cash and no savings. Of the couple's chronic overspending, Elfreda Massie said, "In hindsight, it seems like a poor decision."
I first read about the Massies just after looking over my own latest credit-card bill -- and a sobering little document it was. Just how many natural-fiber bedsheets did I really have to own, anyway? And what about those weeks of fines on a video we'd rented but never watched? The Massies' spending behavior was remote from mine, but not alien. They embodied all the complacency that comes of living among the stock-owning, S.U.V.-driving classes. I imagined them chatting with their neighbors -- Hey, how was Aruba? -- tossing collection notices into a bottom drawer, perhaps figuring that there was always the escape hatch of bankruptcy.
And the Massies' story is only one among many. Just as we are seeing a proliferation of stories about economic envy, so too are we seeing a proliferation of stories like theirs that pique the delicious theme of economic Schadenfreude. Reporting about them almost constitutes a genre unto itself -- a kind of pornography of debt in which "the urge to splurge," as U.S. News puts it, is explored in all its lascivious and compromising detail.
In a way, there is nothing surprising about the appetite for such accounts. Personal bankruptcies have doubled over the last decade, to about 1.4 million annually, according to the most recent figures. (To help stem this tide, Congress has recently taken up legislation to make it harder for people to declare bankruptcy -- a control that was eagerly advocated by the credit industry.) The average American household has 11 credit cards and carries $7,000 in debt on them. Fewer than half of all cardholders pay their bills in full each month. And on and on. Naturally a nation of debtors wants to read how other people, doing what the rest of us do only more so, finally go off the rails.
True, the fascination with fortunes seized and squandered is not new. "In this republican country, amid the fluctuating waves of our social life," Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote, "somebody is always at the drowning-point." But at a Gold Rush moment like this one, when new riches seem easy to procure yet hard to delineate, curiosity about other people's money becomes simply irresistible. And debt itself takes on an airy-fairy aspect: like this strange new wealth that so few of us understand, it exists only on paper -- at least till the credit agents start calling.
Paradoxically, the many articles about debt (often unconvincingly packaged as helpful service pieces) end up confirming our own profligacy. Sure we just ordered $250 worth of gourmet kitchenware, but hey, at least it wasn't $15,000 in "knickknacks and household furnishings from places like the Christmas Tree Shop," the particular indulgence of a credit-card debtor recently featured in The Boston Globe.
The best debt porn relies on a first-person voice -- Credit Cards Ruined My Life" (Teen magazine) or "Confessions of a Credit Card Queen" (Essence) -- and a familiar narrative arc: temptation leads to excess leads to a downward spiral of spending, evoked for our disapproving pleasure. Then -- wham -- rock bottom: she breaks down while forging a credit-card application; he realizes he has never opened half his purchases. The language of addiction and recovery kicks in: they must acknowledge they have a problem, then submit to counseling, prayer and support groups. Reform, however, does not mean abstinence -- this is the 90's -- but instead higher-level consumption. To the self-professed credit-card queen in Essence, the worst thing about her habit was sacrificing "long-term financial goals." "I had become so passive about my finances that I believed things like owning a home, buying a new car and taking fancy vacations were dreams I'd never fulfill. Silly me."
Ultimately, credit confessionals give us a way of working through our fears of a financial crash, which, in the current economy, are always present, often repressed. Credit-card bingers are not a new phenomenon, but the way their fevered spending seems to mirror the economy as a whole is. Stories of this genre -- parables of overconfident overspending, comeuppance and a happy righting of the debtor's course -- serve as metaphors for our overall financial health that are bracing but not truly disturbing. They offer us an occasion to worry about financial stability without worrying about financial inequality. They lend middle- and upper-middle-class consumers a smug sense of maturity and responsibility. They don't tax our powers of empathy very much. They are the hard-luck stories of the century's end, and they really aren't so hard at all.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph Courtesy of Laurence Miller Gallery)
 
Chart: "Forgiving Debt: How To"
 
The 12 Steps of Debtors Anonymous:
 
1. We came to believe we were powerless over debt -- that our lives had become unmanageable.
 
2. Came to believe that a Power greater than ourselves could restore us to sanity.
 
3. Made a decision to turn our will and our lives over to the care of God as we understood Him.
 
4. Made a searching and fearless moral inventory of ourselves.
 
5. Admitted to God, to ourselves and to another human being the exact nature of our wrongs.
 
6. Were entirely ready to have God remove all these defects of character.
 
7. Humbly asked Him to remove our shortcomings.
 
8. Made a list of all persons we had harmed and became willing to make amends to them all.
 
9. Made direct amends to such people wherever possible, except when to do so would injure them or others.
 
10. Continued to take personal inventory and when we were wrong promptly admitted it.
 
11. Sought through prayer and meditation to improve our conscious contact with God as we understood Him praying only for knowledge of His will for us and the power to carry that out.
 
12. Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps, we tried to carry this message to compulsive debtors, and to practice these principles in all our affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCES; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); MISCONDUCT (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (67%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); DRIVER EDUCATION (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (57%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: TALBOT, MARGARET MARTIN FRANKEL (62%); ELFREDA MASSIE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



446 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Sex and the City

BYLINE: By Langdon Hammer; Langdon Hammer is the editor, with Brom Weber, of "O My Land, My Friends: The Selected Letters of Hart Crane."

 BODY:

The Broken Tower
 A Life of Hart Crane.
 By Paul Mariani.
 Illustrated. 492 pp. New York:
 W. W. Norton & Company. $35. 
 Born 100 years ago, on July 21, 1899, the poet Hart Crane grew up with the new century and chose it as his theme, feeling himself to be "quite fit to become a suitable Pindar for the dawn of the machine age, so called." Not that Crane was nave about modernity. He saw both its promise and its threat. What it promised was release, for his generation, from the economic and sexual disciplines of 19th-century puritanism: a liberation into pleasure, creativity, community. The threat was that this vision wouldn't be shared, and modern America would offer nothing to take the place of God -- nothing to value or believe in but money. He also understood that this danger couldn't simply be denied: it would have to be faced and overcome.
Crane's struggle to defend his affirmative vision, which ended with his suicide in 1932, is the heroic story Paul Mariani narrates in "The Broken Tower," the first biography of Crane to appear in 30 years. Like other suicides, Crane's spectacular death -- he killed himself by leaping, quite drunk, from the stern of a passenger ship into the Caribbean, his body never to be recovered -- left behind the question of who or what was to blame. Was Crane's death the necessary outcome of his quest for "ecstasy" (one of his favorite words), a lesson in the perils of romanticism? Or did the fault lie with his culture, readers and family -- everyone who, failing to understand his art, had driven him to despair? Mariani doesn't answer these old questions. His aim isn't to moralize Crane's life but to retell it as "a great Greek tragedy" in Jazz Age dress.
The tragedy -- which has its richly comic side -- begins in Ohio, where Harold Hart Crane was born. He was the only child of Clarence Arthur Crane, the creator of the Life Saver ("For That Stormy Breath"), who made a fortune manufacturing cheap sweets, and Grace Hart, a neurasthenic devotee of Christian Science, who, after her divorce from C. A. in 1917, focused her increasingly unstable emotional life on the poetic career of their son. It was Grace who urged Harold to sign himself Hart Crane in honor of her side of the family. By contrast, Crane's choice of poetry over business as his lifework angered -- and baffled -- C. A. Over time, however, his mother's identification with him became more burdensome to Crane than his father's opposition. While he made peace with the candy man, he spent the last three years of his life in flight from Grace.
Mariani has relatively little interest in these powerful, unpleasant parents. For him, what matters is New York, the city Crane discovered at 17 and repeatedly returned to. New York was many things to Crane: modernist literature and art, skyscrapers, advertising (in which he sometimes worked as a copywriter), a center for people from everywhere else and the scene of a new sexual freedom, in which Crane would learn what it meant for him to be gay. In contrast to Crane's previous biographers, Mariani, who has also written biographies of Robert Lowell and William Carlos Williams, discusses the poet's sexuality without embarrassment or disapproval, and he recognizes how crucial it was to his poetry and to his transforming experience of New York. "He made one man after another," Mariani writes, just as "he made the city . . . made it over into his own image, as every New York artist -- driven by eros and invention -- must make it over."
What Crane made of the city can be seen in "White Buildings," a book of lyric poems that appeared in 1926, and "The Bridge," the long poem he conceived in 1923 but did not complete and publish until 1930. The bridge in the title was Crane's symbol for the will to imagine a New World that he saw at the center of American history. He had felt the power of that symbol in his ecstatic contemplation of the Brooklyn Bridge. He lived "in the shadow of the bridge" at 110 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, and he crossed it by day and at night with friends and with lovers, hand in hand. In the opening, dedicatory section of "The Bridge," with an elevated diction and ceremonial formality worthy of Renaissance poetry, Crane invoked the familiar Gothic arches and steel cables as a divine image for his time:
O Sleepless as the river under thee,
Vaulting the sea, the prairies' dreaming sod,
Unto us lowliest sometime sweep, descend
And of the curveship lend a myth to God.
This was the symbol Crane held out to his readers, daring them to assent.
He brought the same urgency to his friendships. "Crane," Mariani writes, "had one of those quicksilver personalities -- a survivor's instinct, really -- which allowed him to get along with almost anyone." Indeed, as singular as he was, attached to no institution of any kind (he never went to college, served in the military or worked his way up a company ladder), always fleeing from his family and almost always broke, Crane needed friends badly, and he was open to them from all quarters. Many artists and authors (some famous now, some not) have a role in "The Broken Tower"; so do millionaires, movie stars, sailors, taxi drivers and divorcees. Crane gave himself to other people profligately -- his letters are a record, and an instance, of that generosity of spirit -- and he demanded as much in return (as his letters, with their frequent self-pity, defensiveness and requests for money, also record).
Crane's call to friendship was impossible for any of his friends to answer fully. His adult life was filled with failed relationships; and his estrangement from friends, who were in key cases also poetry critics, foretold the mixed reception of "The Bridge." Although he anticipated bad reviews, he never recovered his belief in his talent. As he struggled to finish "The Bridge," and then afterward, alcohol dominated Crane's daily life. At the same time, he became more and more isolated in the heterosexual -- in many ways homophobic -- society of his literary peers. This stage of things is easy to narrate. There are tantrums, orgies, arrests; Crane blows through Los Angeles, Paris, Mexico City; he dresses as "a cannibal," a Scotsman, a Mexican peasant; he drops to his knees and dances his Cossack dance in the street. But it's hard to get inside his mind. At the end of the night, Crane is besotted, sad and alone.
Readers wanting new facts about this and other phases of Crane's life will be disappointed in "The Broken Tower." Mariani seems to have written it not in the library but in his study, with Crane's books and the main books about him open on the desk, and without reference, it appears, to the extensive unpublished correspondence. The narrative depends on restatements of poems and published letters, including some of Crane's words (not always with quotation marks) and some of Mariani's. The effect can be exciting, but it can be stilted too, and then the "Greek tragedy" feels like a television dramatization. There is too much tough talk (as if Mariani thought he could communicate Crane's great transgressive vitality by swearing a lot); and there is something silly about prose paraphrases of Crane's sublime lyrics that try to put us in the poet's mind, as if we were listening in as he mulled over his love affairs, a little soused.
But there is also something right about Mariani's approach to the poems. They are passionate personal documents that invite us into a state of intimate reverie, in which we collaborate with the poet to complete his meaning. Mariani understands this -- it's the appeal of Crane's poems, in both senses -- and he tries to meet Crane on that level, to be the comrade or "accomplice" his poems seek. The results, for all their staginess, are helpful readings of famously difficult texts.
After the publication of his long poem, Crane, dispirited and too modest, no longer expecting to become the modern Pindar, wrote, "I shall be humbly grateful if 'The Bridge' can fulfill the metaphoric inferences of its title" and "serve as . . . a link connecting certain chains of the past to certain chains and tendencies of the future." To understand the future, he turned back to an old image of it, that monumental structure from the 19th century, the Brooklyn Bridge. To understand the direction of our culture today, on the verge of a new century that is full of its own promise and threat, we might take Crane's lead and look for images of the future in the past, beginning with "The Bridge."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A portrait of Hart Crane by the painter Willy Lescaze, 1921. (Butler Library, Columbia University/from "The Broken Tower")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BROKEN TOWER, THE: A LIFE OF HART CRANE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (89%); SUICIDE (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (79%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); FAMILY (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); LITERATURE (71%); RELIGION (68%); 

PERSON: HAMMER, LANGDON; MARIANI, PAUL; CRANE, HART (1899-1932) PAUL MARIANI (90%); HART CRANE (60%); GRACE HART (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999



447 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Polls on Tax Cuts Find Voters' Messages Mixed

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18

 BODY:
Nearly two-thirds of Americans think their taxes are too high. But few of them worry much about it, and most people would rather have the Government spend money on popular programs than cut taxes.
These somewhat contradictory findings from a review of public opinion polls help explain why Republicans and Democrats have such different views on tax cuts. Each side can find something in the polls to justify its position. 
 Republicans in Congress expect to approve large tax cuts this summer. Among the steps Republicans are considering are reduced income-tax rates, a lower capital gains tax, abolition of the tax on inheritances, new tax breaks for retirement savings and more favorable tax treatment of married couples.
These measures are opposed by most Democrats in Congress, and President Clinton has promised to veto them. The President favors a much smaller tax cut focused largely on retirement savings. The President and the Democratic lawmakers also favor spending more on health and education programs.
In a Gallup poll this spring, 65 percent of those questioned said their taxes were too high. Over the last 30 years, through good economic times and bad, this figure has not changed a great deal.
On the other hand, when CBS News asked people in a poll last week what they thought was "the single most important problem for the Government -- the President and Congress -- to address in the coming year," only 5 percent named taxes, putting the issue behind health care, Social Security, the national debt, education and Medicare and Medicaid.
In a similar vein, when Gallup asked people in March whether they favored a tax cut or "increased spending on other Government programs," three-quarters opted for the tax cut. But on an alternative question, when people were asked whether they preferred a tax cut or more spending to "fund new retirement savings accounts, as well as increased spending on education, defense, Medicare and other programs," three of every five respondents favored financing of the specified programs.
The idea of cutting taxes "has only moderate priority when you test it against spending," said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan polling operation. "The reason is not that people don't think their taxes are too high, because they do, but they think tax breaks won't benefit them and the country as much as the spending, and they think that when taxes are cut, the rich guys are the ones who are going to make out."
Indeed, a poll by Gallup, CNN and USA Today in April found that 66 percent of the public believes "upper-income people" already pay too little in taxes.
When they debate tax policy, Republicans and Democrats rely on the polling results that bolster their separate doctrines.
Asked in an interview last week why polls showed little clamor for tax cuts among voters, Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, replied: "We know from long-term polling data, over a long period of time, that people believe they are overtaxed. People do not say we are taxed too little. They say Government spends too much and that we are taxed too much."
But in the Ways and Means Committee debate on tax legislation last week, Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, insisted that people understood the Republican bill would benefit mainly the rich. The Republicans "would rather help multimillionaires and special interests rather than enable seniors to obtain affordable prescription drugs," Mr. Stark declared.
Paradoxically, when the Pew Research Center asked voters last month whether they thought Republicans or Democrats would do "a better job" on taxes, the outcome was a dead heat: 38 percent said Republicans and 38 percent said Democrats.
One reason tax cuts are so important to Republicans is that this is a matter on which two main strands of the party, business interests and religious conservatives, agree.
Another reason is that many issues that used to be central to Republican dogma, like anti-communism, are not relevant today. And many others, like welfare, crime and balanced budgets, have been co-opted by President Clinton.
Among voters, tax cuts are a significantly higher priority for Republicans than for Democrats and independents.
In a Gallup poll, 69 percent of Republicans said a candidate's position on the "amount Americans pay in Federal taxes" was an important factor in how they voted, but fewer than half of Democrats and independents gave that response.
And not surprising, the more money people make and thus the more they pay in taxes, the more they favor tax cuts. Gallup found that 62 percent of those with annual incomes above $75,000 regarded taxes as a high or top priority in deciding whom to vote for.
One reason the public may generally be skeptical about tax cuts is that most people pay more in Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes than they pay in income taxes, and no one nowadays is talking about reducing payroll taxes.
In 1997, a couple with $50,000 in income from wages, paid $7,650 in payroll taxes. Their employers paid another $7,650 as their share. But assuming one child and itemized deductions of $10,000, the couple paid $4,800 in income taxes. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (55%); USA TODAY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MARRIAGES; PUBLIC OPINION; GALLUP POLL; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; WILLS AND ESTATES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); MEDICARE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); VETO (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); APPROVALS (71%); WILLS (70%); MARRIAGE (69%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



448 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Foe Suggests Giving Milosevic Immunity To Get Him to Quit

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, July 18

 BODY:
A leading Serbian opposition politician says the best way to get President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia out of power is to seduce him to resign, promising him immunity from arrest or extradition.
"What can I really do to force Milosevic to resign?" the opposition figure, Vuk Draskovic, said today in an interview. "But a transitional government is a way for him to exit." 
 Mr. Draskovic said he would soon name a shadow Yugoslav government of experts led by a prime minister selected by Milo Djukanovic, the democratic leader of Montenegro, the small republic that with Serbia makes up Yugoslavia. Mr. Draskovic then plans to press Mr. Milosevic through public rallies to accept that government and call new elections in three to six months, while the opposition works to attract disaffected Milosevic supporters.
That is Mr. Draskovic's notion, at least. But others in the Serbian opposition think that now is the time to confront and oust Mr. Milosevic, not to succor him.
It is an example of how the opposition disagrees even on the core issues since Mr. Milosevic's defeat in Kosovo.
Despite prodding from senior American and European diplomats to adopt a united platform, senior opposition figures here remain intensely competitive. Their lack of unity makes it more likely that if Mr. Milosevic falls, it will be through a chaotic outpouring of discontent -- the kind of street violence that Mr. Draskovic and many other Serbs say they should avoid.
Mr. Draskovic's aides make clear that Mr. Milosevic could remain in power "as a figurehead," with the idea that he would resign later. Mr. Draskovic says he has no intention of prosecuting Mr. Milosevic or turning him over to the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague, which in late May indicted Mr. Milosevic and four of his senior aides on charges of committing crimes against humanity in Kosovo.
"If we preach hatred and revenge, then we can't broaden our support," Mr. Draskovic said. "Milosevic must accept when he realizes the majority of Serbia supports this program, but we can't have a majority without some Milosevic supporters, and we can't get them by promising them prison and hatred in advance."
On Saturday in Kragujevac, at his first large street rally, Mr. Draskovic urged some 20,000 supporters to avoid violence and the dangers of civil war, and he urged all opposition figures to unite behind a program that Mr. Milosevic could accept.
Mr. Draskovic says he agrees with senior American officials that they must all agree on a common platform. But while many in the opposition lament the discord, they have not yet overcome it.
For example, the Alliance for Change, a grouping of opposition parties -- in particular the Democratic Party of a rival of Mr. Draskovic, Zoran Djindjic -- is calling for Mr. Milosevic to resign immediately, with a transitional government to be named then, without early elections.
Yet Slobodan Vuksanovic, the deputy chairman of the Democratic Party, was pessimistic today. "Everyone knows everything about the Milosevic regime," he said, "and we've just lost Kosovo, and the saddest part is the opposition leaders.
"They know what we all know: that no one can beat the Milosevic regime alone, and that if they are not united, Milosevic will stay in power. Milosevic won't resign without pressure from the streets, and people won't come out into the streets unless they see a united opposition. And the leaders don't seem to care."
Mr. Vuksanovic is most upset with the convolutions of Mr. Draskovic, who has now belatedly decided to stage street rallies and was a member of Mr. Milosevic's Government for much of the Kosovo war. But he did not exclude his own party's leader, Mr. Djindjic, from his criticism, or the other leaders of the small opposition parties in the Alliance for Change.
Before an important Alliance rally in the central Serbian town of Kraljevo, Mr. Vuksanovic said, "the leaders sat around like at a funeral, and they competed with each other over who will make the first speech and the last." Nor did they brief each other on what they would say.
The Democratic Party itself is divided over whether a new government would hand Mr. Milosevic over for trial in The Hague.
Mr. Djindjic has said in interviews that he would hand over Mr. Milosevic. Mr. Vuksanovic says that is Mr. Djindjic's opinion but not party policy, and that he himself would put Mr. Milosevic on trial at home.
Mr. Draskovic would not do anything to Mr. Milosevic, but leave him in peace so long as he resigns, and says that the indictment in The Hague "was very political and very stupid," making his ouster harder.
Mr. Milosevic, of course, is likely to trust none of the opposition's options. Officials close to Mr. Draskovic argue that the indictment leaves Mr. Milosevic has little alternative to fighting for his survival in office and to reject resignation unless he gets firm guarantees for his safety and that of his family.
The American diplomat Robert S. Gelbard has met all key opposition leaders and urged them to unite on a joint platform, and they say they are trying. But Mr. Vuksanovic said, "Mr. Gelbard will get a Nobel Prize if he gets a united opposition."
A senior adviser to Mr. Draskovic said such divisions were hurting all of the opposition parties in opinion polls and alienating Serbs further from any politician. While the Draskovic party has been getting about 15 percent support, just behind the bedrock 20 percent or so that Mr. Milosevic still receives, it is now slipping again, he said.
There is a lot of anger in Serbian towns from army reservists, the unemployed, young people despairing of a collapsed economy and a new wave of Serbian refugees from Kosovo. Spontaneous demonstrations in a Milosevic stronghold like Leskovac brought out thousands of people, but the parties are having trouble channeling that anger into something positive and convincing.
When demonstrations turn violent or chaotic, as they did last week in Valjevo when an artist called on the crowd to march on city hall, the Milosevic Government has been quick to capitalize in propaganda terms, warning that the opposition could bring the country to civil war.
Just today, the army chief of staff, Gen. Dragoljub Ojdanic, warned opposition leaders that "those who call for a forceful ouster of the legally elected authorities" will not get popular support.
"It is the task of us all now to preserve the stability of the country," the general told the daily Politika, "because there are many sold souls, Western vassals, who want to take power by force and take the country into a new catastrophe."
Mr. Draskovic says the dangers of civil war are real, which is partly why he dismisses as "crazy" Mr. Djindjic's proposal for a big march on Belgrade from different Serbian towns next month.
Mr. Vuksanovic says a better time would be September, when students will have returned to Belgrade. He notes that many army reservists brought at least two guns home with them. "People are more afraid of civil war than of NATO's bombing," he said, "and state propaganda manipulates the message in a very intelligent way."
Mr. Vuksanovic is among the opposition leaders who say that splits within a weakened and nervous ruling elite are more likely to be the catalyst for Mr. Milosevic's resignation than the rallies of the opposition.
He even suggests that the West should make a deal with Mr. Milosevic, promising him immunity if he would leave Serbia and go, say, to South Africa.
Mr. Draskovic, too, is looking for the current Government to split under the pressure of international isolation and the need to keep Montenegro in a federal Yugoslavia. With no Montenegro there is no Yugoslavia, and hence no need for a Yugoslav President, he says.
"Milosevic is in a shameful position, and he knows that as a federal President who can't visit the sister republic or even a province of Serbia, Kosovo," Mr. Draskovic said. "He's in real difficulties. And I believe that in September, when people will start to feel the danger of winter, we can solve all this."
Already, some businessmen close to the Milosevic system have had exploratory talks with Mr. Draskovic and his aides, but they seem mostly to be hedging their bets.
And the politicians say that the moderate Deputy Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, Zoran Lilic, is talking about creating a new party with the former army Chief of Staff, Gen. Momcilo Perisic, whom Mr. Milosevic fired in November. Such a party might split the ruling elite and appeal to army and police officers unhappy with the Kosovo adventure.
But even committed democrats are not sure that even new elections will end Mr. Milosevic's 12-year rule.
"Sincerely and intimately, no one really expects that the system will change through elections," said Goran Svilanovic, the leader of the small opposition Civic Alliance party. "The political scene is perverse, and I'm part of this perversion. No group is really ready for elections. No one dares to have them."
The party's former leader, Vesna Pesic, awarded a medal by President Clinton for her work for democracy, said: "Let's forget about elections. I'm in favor of putschist methods. He's got to go without elections."
A top Draskovic aide says the opposition is allowing the Government to catch its wind. "It's not the first time the Milosevic regime has been shaky," he said. "The problem is that nobody is the obvious alternative to Milosevic. That's what we are trying to become."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A man was helped as he climbed over a fence near a poster of the Serbian opposition figure Vuk Draskovic during a demonstration against Yugoslavia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, in Kragujevac on Saturday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)
 
Map of Yugoslavia highlighting Belgrade: In Belgrade, the opposition to the Government is far from united. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MONTENEGRO (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); MONTENEGRO; SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MONTENEGRO (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (53%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EXTRADITION EXTRADITION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IMMUNITY (90%); POLITICS (89%); WAR CRIMES (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: DRASKOVIC, VUK (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN; DJUKANOVIC, MILO (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



449 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: ON HOCKEY;
Rangers Are Building On Shaky Foundation

BYLINE: By Joe LaPointe 

 BODY:
Assuming they announce the expected signing of Sylvain Lefebvre today, the Rangers will have added six free agents in two weeks. This is a remarkable recruiting effort that will dramatically change their roster and affect hockey's economics.
They have become older and more expensive and probably better. But how much better? They are still thin at center, the second most important position after goalie. With a payroll of about $60 million, they will be the team with the highest payroll in the National Hockey League, having one comparable to those of baseball. After missing the Stanley Cup playoffs for two consecutive seasons and three times in the last seven years, they just might be back in the tournament next spring. 
 Coach John Muckler seems optimistic. That is partly why Muckler is about to accept a one-year contract extension to guarantee his employment through the 2000-1 season.
"I feel very good about it," Muckler said. "I am quite pleased. Being here a year and a half, seeing the improvement in the club last year and what the organization and ownership have done this year to add personnel to make us better, I'm excited about this coming season and I think everything is progressing in the right fashion and we're going in the right direction. We are building into a good club."
But aren't they also building an old club? Lefebvre, a defenseman from the Colorado Avalanche, will turn 32 in October. Stephane Quintal, another new defenseman, was signed from Montreal and will turn 31 in October. Theo Fleury, the right wing signed from Colorado, just turned 31. Valery Kamensky, the left wing from Colorado, is 33. Tim Taylor, the center from Boston, is 30. Kirk McLean, the backup goalie from Florida, is 33.
In the last 12 months, the Rangers have re-signed three players -- Brian Leetch, Adam Graves and Mike Richter -- before they could get away as free agents. Their ages are 31, 31 and 32. They may have some good seasons left, but it is hard to imagine them getting better in their second decades as professionals. Returning regulars include Kevin Stevens, 34, and John MacLean, 34. For a team, how old is too old?
"Well, it depends on what you call old," said Muckler, 65, the second-oldest coach in the league. "Thirty-one is not old, with the number of teams in the N.H.L. now. We're expanding to 30 teams. I think you will see older players stay around longer than they have in the past."
This is true. In the 1980's, when the league was a stable circuit of 21 teams, most good teams were packed with players in the their mid-20's. Last month, Dallas won the cup with the league's oldest team. But even with so many players over 30, the Stars were led by Derian Hatcher, 27, and Mike Modano, 29. Most winning teams have a core of elite athletes in their 20's who still have something to prove. The only Ranger who fits this description is Petr Nedved, 28, the first-line center. Behind him are Taylor and Manny Malhotra, 19. And someone will have to replace the retired Wayne Gretzky.
"We'd like to add a center-ice man," Muckler said. "If not, I would imagine Todd Harvey would get an opportunity to play there. He has played some center. It's not what you want to do, but it's the best alternative."
Harvey, 24, primarily a right wing, missed much of last season with injuries. Neil Smith, the president and general manager, tried to trade him to the Islanders in the Zigmund Palffy deal, which fell apart. But without another center, Muckler would have to play Nedved against an opposing team's top center. This led to the injuries that sidelined Nedved during last season's failed drive for a playoff berth.
"That is not a healthy situation," Muckler said. Also lacking has been internal competition. Since the Stanley Cup championship of 1994, won by a team that Smith built and Mike Keenan coached, the last five Ranger teams have been heavy with veteran players whose high salaries limit their tradability. Their job security has not been threatened by emerging young talent. Muckler said he hoped that would change with the competition from young forwards like Harvey, Malhotra, Johan Witehall, Pavel Brendl and Jan Hlavac.
"It's great we've got competition from within," Muckler said. "We didn't have that for a year and half. If the youth can contribute, they're going to push each other. You need a strong blend to win. We have a lot of questions, but I think some of those questions are going to be answered. I'm excited and looking forward to the season."
Muckler took over in February 1998 after Smith dismissed Colin Campbell as coach. In more than a decade as boss of the Rangers, Smith's trade and draft history is spotty. The same goes for his free-agent hirings. MacLean produced well last season, but Mike Keane and Brian Skrudland failed to last a full season in 1997-98. Gretzky, an expensive addition in 1996, finished his career in Madison Square Garden with three of his least effective, but best compensated, seasons. Since the lockout of 1994, the average N.H.L. salary has risen from $558,000 to $1.3 million a year. One key condition of the collective bargaining agreement reached then was free agency for veterans. Although long-term security and high salaries might not damage their motivation, some older players tend to wear down in an 82-game season followed by up to two months of playoffs.
The average Ranger salary next season will be about double the league average. In the Garden's corporate culture, several people have to approve those paychecks and then hope to count playoff receipts. Smith's immediate supervisor, David Checketts, the Madison Square Garden president, came from the basketball side of the operation. Because of the Knicks' regular-season strife and surprising playoff success, Checketts and the Cablevision ownership may have been preoccupied. Perhaps this bought Smith more time to spend more money on more free agents. But he could be running out of approaches and time. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); DENVER, CO, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RANGERS NEW YORK RANGERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); DALLAS STARS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (54%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS NEW YORK RANGERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); DALLAS STARS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (54%); COLORADO AVALANCHE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); COLORADO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); DENVER, CO, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); BASEBALL (73%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE; LEFEBVRE, SYLVAIN JOHN MUCKLER (94%); TODD HARVEY (58%); PETR NEDVED (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



450 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Prosperity Builds Mounds of Cast-Off Clothes

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.

 BODY:
Hour by hour, cars and trucks back up to the Salvation Army's warehouse loading dock on the edge of the prosperous East Side here and disgorge clothing. Skirts and parkas, neckties and tank tops, sweat pants and socks, a polychromatic mountain of clothes is left each week, some with price tags still attached.
Inside the warehouse, workers cull the clean and undamaged clothes, roughly 1 piece in 5, to give to the poor or to sell at thrift shops. They feed the rest -- as much as four million pounds a year -- into mighty machines that bind them into 1,100-pound, 5-foot-long bales. Rag dealers buy the bales for 5 cents a pound and ship them off to countries like Yemen and Senegal. 
 Nearly a decade of rising prosperity has changed the ways that Americans view and use clothing, so much so that cast-off clothes have become the flotsam of turn-of-the-century affluence. Americans bought 17.2 billion articles of clothing in 1998 -- a 16 percent increase over 1993, according to the NPG Group, a market research concern in Port Washington, N.Y. -- and gave the Salvation Army alone several hundred million pieces, well over 100,000 tons.
And because so few people make or mend their clothes anymore, among the changes has been this one, in 1998: The Bureau of Labor Statistics moved sewing machines from the "apparel and upkeep" category of consumer spending to "recreation."
The clothing glut is a boon to the many charities like the Salvation Army that sort and sell old clothes. "You choke on sweaters," said Capt. Thomas E. Taylor, administrator of the Salvation Army's Providence center, one of the three or four busiest of the organization's 119 across the country. No one in the United States, Captain Taylor said, need ever go without being properly dressed.
At the warehouse, Judy Keegan was unloading a cargo of dresses, jeans and shirts.
"I do this regularly," Ms. Keegan, who has four children, ages 6 to 15, said of giving away family clothing. "I grew up with hand-me-downs, but if they need something, we go buy it."
Joanna Wood, a social worker who was choking on linens, brought in a blanket and comforter.
"The frightening thing," Ms. Wood said, "is I'm a nonshopper."
Beyond clearing their closets, donors have a monetary incentive for giving away clothes here. They can claim a tax deduction if they ask for a form when they pull in. Ms. Keegan took one, Ms. Wood did not.
"The majority don't," Captain Taylor said. "The majority of people just give."
Clothing is easier than ever to buy, not only because incomes have gone up and unemployment has gone down, but also because clothes are getting relatively cheaper. Clothing prices have risen just 13 percent in a decade, while the average for all consumer goods rose 34 percent. Prices of women's clothes are lower now than six years ago.
But the greatest boon to shopping and shedding may be the fast-changing fashion styles, and not only for women. Few children settle for their older siblings' outdated Starter jackets and baggy jeans. Elementary school principals routinely complain of overflowing lost-and-found departments.
These phenomena have swept across the spectrum of the retail economy, from boutique shoppers to bargain hunters. Conservatively attired in beige, Susan Brenneman, a 30-year-old software executive, seemed a model of reserve, moderation and thrift. Then she popped open the trunk of her Volvo sedan. From Nieman Marcus, Banana Republic and Lord & Taylor shopping bags, she plucked 6 suits, 8 pairs of shoes, 10 pairs of pants, 5 blouses, 10 belts, 2 sweaters and a raincoat.
The clothes, all spotless and neat, were up to two years old. Ms. Brenneman said her company's shift to more casual wear put an end to the suits. Still, wincing at the size of her load, Ms. Brenneman said she was revising her priorities. "More quality and less volume," she said.
In buying and scrapping clothes, Ms. Brenneman had nothing on a 42-year-old woman who was rifling through the racks at the 18,500-square-foot Salvation Army thrift store next to the warehouse. She was wearing last week's acquisition, a shimmering Navy blue tank top embroidered with the Wilson sportswear logo, which had cost her $1.
"Clothes, I go through them like water," said the woman, who identified herself only as Casey. "I change my outfits all the time."
The tank top, like everything else she buys, is eventually destined for donation, she said.
"But why pay $25, when you can pay 25 cents?"
In another aisle, Sarah Demirjian, a retired widow, held up a pair of printed Rafaella slacks. They started at $6 and now, on sale, were $1. "The person probably wore this once or twice and junked it," she said. "It's the disposable society."
In their different ways, these women are all cogs in a large, little-known industry that helps sustain organizations, like the Salvation Army, that recycle clothes so they can recycle people, from the street into the work force.
Each of the Salvation Army's centers combines a warehouse and an Adult Rehabilitation Center. Seventy-one recovering addicts, or "beneficiaries," as the organization calls them, live and work at the Providence center.
"We deal with them spiritually, socially, rehabilitatively and with work therapy," Captain Taylor said.
For the six weeks to many months they are here, beneficiaries are tightly regimented while the center feeds them, houses them in spartan dormitories, trains them for work and steers them into jobs beyond the centers. For their work in the warehouse, they are paid a "gratuity" of $5 to $15 a week, depending on their progress in the program.
Three teams of beneficiaries, about 10 sorters and taggers, confronted the great clothing glut on the second floor of the warehouse, an old textile factory. Terrence Mitchell, 41, a resident here for three months and a sorter, tore open a donor's black plastic bag and spotted a denim shirt turned inside out.
"Inside out, throw it out," Mr. Mitchell said. Most inside-out clothing has something to hide, usually dirt and stains. He picked up a black leather handbag, still in its protective plastic cover, still with its price tag.
"That goes to new," Mr. Mitchell said, sending it to a crate with other items with their original tags.
A Bugle Boy windbreaker was soiled on one side. "Out," he said, tossing it into a bin that would feed it to the baling machines.
Next, a bag with 20 new-looking bras, in lavender satin, red lace, a leopard-skin print, all the same size. "Maybe someone died," Mr. Mitchell said. They went to taggers like Laura Whiteside, 34.
"We get Jones of New York, Evan Picone, Christian Dior," Ms. Whiteside said. "Here's a Stafford shirt. That's Penney's own brand."
After three weeks here, Ms. Whiteside had become a lightning-quick tagger, thrusting item upon item into a table-top machine that pins on a blue, yellow, green or white price tag -- one color for each week of the month.
The color coding lets the thrift shops, which price the clothing, know when an item has been on their racks and unsold for a month. If it has been, it is sent to the baling machines, or "ragged out," in the parlance of the workers. Twice a week or so, the bales are loaded into the dealers' 18-wheelers and often into containers for shipping.
"They can go to Guatemala, Mexico," said Fletcher Fisher, the warehouse supervisor and a former beneficiary. "A lot can go overseas to Africa. We ship a lot to Canada, and from there they ship it all over."
Leoson's International in Toronto specializes in trade with the Middle East.
"We just sold a container to Yemen," said Leo Ohanian, the company's export director.
A container is 40 feet long and takes 32 bales, Mr. Ohanian said, or nearly 18 tons of clothes.
"There are two classes in the Middle East, high class and very low class," he said. "The very low class can't afford the clothing they have there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tracy Alexander sorts through a pile of unwanted clothes at a Salvation Army warehouse in Providence, R.I. Behind her, more piles await. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS; SALVATION ARMY THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS; SALVATION ARMY THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); THE SALVATION ARMY (94%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PHILANTHROPY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WOMEN; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; SEWING MACHINES RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); STATISTICS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); CHILDREN (60%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T SUSAN BRENNEMAN (69%); JUDY KEEGAN (61%); THOMAS E TAYLOR (58%); JOANNA WOOD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



451 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Candidate, uh, First Lady Has Elegant Dinner for Barak

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18

 BODY:
Demonstrating just how valuable the platform of the White House can be for a Senate candidate, Hillary Rodham Clinton helped give a dinner here tonight for Ehud Barak, the Prime Minister of Israel, overseeing a gala that could only increase the goodwill toward Mrs. Clinton among Jewish voters.
President Clinton and his wife invited nearly 500 people, twice the number they normally invite for official dinners, many of them influential in the Jewish community in New York. The throng was so large -- it was believed to be the biggest sit-down dinner in the Clinton Administration -- that they held the banquet in a vast tent, studded with sprays of dark blue delphinium, on the South Lawn. 
 As it happens, the First Lady's office is charged with deciding whom to invite to such White House functions, and her Senate campaign could not have been far from her thoughts.
Among the guests was Leah Rabin, widow of the assassinated Prime Minister, who in an interview sought to put to rest any concern that some Jewish voters might have about Mrs. Clinton's statement that Palestinians should eventually have their own state. "I don't have any argument with her," Mrs. Rabin said. "I probably wouldn't have made the statement myself because we feel that the final declaration of a Palestinian state should be in the framework of our agreement. So an official person in Israel would not have said it, but in fact the process has already brought about -- it feels as if a Palestinian state will be inevitable."
The value of the Barak visit was evident not only to guests here tonight but also to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mrs. Clinton's likely Republican opponent in the Senate race, who met for 40 minutes this morning with the Prime Minister at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York.
"It was an excellent meeting," the Mayor said later. "We talked about the peace process, as you would expect, in some detail. But we also talked about the reduction in crime in New York. He was very interested in how we brought it about so they could apply some of those same practices in Israel."
Mr. Giuliani also said they talked about the economic resurgence of New York and how the quality of life had improved during Mr. Giuliani's tenure. "It was a very, very, good, very good conversation," the Mayor said. "And I encouraged him and told him that I am a very strong supporter, have always been, of the state of Israel and if he needs any help or any assistance, he should feel free to call on me."
The meeting was apparently initiated by officials at the Israeli consulate, who told the Prime Minister, "You come to New York, you meet the Mayor of New York."
Such a hot commodity is Mr. Barak that news of his meeting with the Mayor this morning was a topic of conversation at the White House tonight.
"Giuliani had an interview today with Barak for a half hour and wouldn't let him go," said David Steiner, vice chairman of the National Jewish Democratic Council and past president of the American-Israel Political Action Committee.
"So he had his shot, too, today, and this is only fair," he said, gesturing to the ornate White House setting. Mr. Steiner sat at Mrs. Clinton's table along with the Prime Minister. At the President's table was Representative Nita M. Lowey, the New York Democrat who declined to run for the Senate once Mrs. Clinton's intentions became clear.
Sylvia Steiner, his wife, said of the happy accident that the First Lady and the Senate candidate were one and the same: "I would say it's a plus. It generates a warm feeling. Everyone's happy to be here."
Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat and something of a New York mentor to candidate Clinton, agreed. "I think this would have happened whether she's running or not," he said of the huge dinner. "But this certainly helps her. The fact that she's First Lady, the fact that this Administration is on the same wavelength with the new Israeli Administration, it all creates an era of good feeling and good will, so that's how it helps."
By happy coincidence for Mrs. Clinton, many of the guests were top fund-raisers in New York with strong Jewish ties and some were from the Orthodox groups that lean toward Mr. Giuliani. They included Ronald O. Perelman, chairman of Revlon; Ronald S. Lauder, chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, and Daniel Crown, chief executive of Crown Theaters and a partner in the New York Yankees.
Some of the guests shrugged off the suggestion that Mrs. Clinton might derive some political benefit from inviting to the White House so many well-connected New Yorkers to rub shoulders and pick at seared Arctic char with the new Prime Minister.
"Does she gain by it?" asked former Mayor Edward I. Koch, a guest here tonight, who said he intended to campaign for Mrs. Clinton. "I guess, but that's not the consideration. Not in my book. This is one of our closest allies."
Norman Ornstein, a political analyst and also a guest, agreed that the benefit to Mrs. Clinton was minimal. "It doesn't hurt to be First Lady and have the Prime Minister come," he said. "But one of the better benefits to her is that Barak got elected in the first place because it will further the peace process and that will look good for everybody." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) ASTORIA HOTEL (53%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); WHITE HOUSE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); WHITE HOUSE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ISRAEL; UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; JEWS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ASSASSINATION (73%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); EHUD BARAK (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



452 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Israel Will Buy 50 F-16's In Its Biggest Arms Deal Ever

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 18

 BODY:
Israel confirmed today that it plans to add at least 50 more F-16's to an already formidable jet fighter fleet, signaling a determination to maintain decisive regional air power superiority even as it pursues peace deals with its Middle Eastern neighbors.
In what would be the largest arms purchase in Israel's history, Prime Minister Ehud Barak has told American officials that his country wants to buy 50 new F-16E fighter-bombers, a $2.5 billion order, with an option to order up to 60 more jets for a further $2 billion. Israel already has more than 250 F-16's, the largest fleet outside the United States. 
 In a meeting on Friday in the Pentagon, Mr. Barak told Defense Secretary William S. Cohen that Israel had decided to choose the F-16 over the more advanced but costly F-15 in its long-expected fleet expansion. Lockheed Martin, the manufacturer, was informed of Israel's decision "verbally" and expects to sign a contract later this year, a company spokesman, Joe Stout, said today.
"You had an airplane that had almost the same capability for much less money, so ultimately it was not a tough decision," said Moshe Arens, who as Defense Minister in Israel's last Government favored the F-16 order.
At Mr. Barak's request, the final decision was deferred until he took office this month. Avi Kalstein, a Defense Ministry spokesman, said here today that "after studying it, Barak decided to follow" recommendations from the Israeli Army and Defense Ministry to buy the F-16.
The jets will be purchased with American taxpayer funds. Israel's military aid package is budgeted at $1.86 billion this year, but slated to rise as economic aid to Israel declines in the coming decade. Israel must spend all but $400 million of its annual American aid appropriation in the United States.
Israel's new F-16's, to be delivered between 2002 and 2004, will have better navigation systems and a longer flight range than their predecessors. That will put Iran and Iraq well within strike range and strengthen an air force now considered more potent than Italy's or Germany's.
As Israel did in Lebanon last month, it is likely to use punitive or pre-emptive bombing raids increasingly as its offensive strategy of choice, as opposed to the high-risk border attacks and commando raids of the past.
"In the wake of the Gulf war, and in the wake of Kosovo, Israel is also putting more of its resources into air power," said Gerald Steinberg, an Israeli military policy analyst at Bar-Ilan University. "Israel is at least as sensitive to casualties as the United States is."
In choosing the F-16, Israel ended a fierce corporate battle here between Lockheed Martin, which builds the jet in Forth Worth, and Boeing, which produces the F-15 at a subsidiary in St. Louis. In both cities thousands of jobs were at stake.
The two aerospace giants competed aggressively for the Israeli contract for more than a year, cutting prices and trumping each other's offers of lucrative production-sharing contracts with Israeli military manufacturers.
The purchase announcement, delayed deliberately until Mr. Barak's visit to Washington, was an unexpectedly timely piece of good news for Lockheed Martin. The Maryland-based military contractor was shaken last week by an unexpected House defense subcommittee recommendation to halt planned production of what was to have been the biggest project in company history, the F-22 jet fighter.
"It's great news," Mr. Stout said, helping to assure continued production of the F-16 in Fort Worth until production of a successor aircraft begins there in 2007. "We are grateful to the Government of Israel for its confidence in our product."
Earlier in the decade, during the administration of Yitzhak Rabin, Israel began shifting toward the Boeing F-15, which can fly farther and faster with heavier armament. Boeing is now delivering the final planes from Israel's initial order of 25, and the Seattle aviation giant offered generous technological and investment inducements for a second purchase.
After first promising Israel $500 million in production-sharing business here, not all of it directly related to the F-15 order, Boeing had recently increased its offer to $1 billion in local investments, company officials said today.
But each twin-engine F-15 still costs $40 million compared with $25 million for its recently improved single-engine rival, and Israel concluded that 50 jets was a better strategic investment than 30. Senior officers at the Israeli Army, contemplating aerial combat against large armored land forces, had argued for the bigger fleet expansion.
Lockheed Martin also sweetened its local spending package, with investment commitments said here to approach $900 million. About 25 percent of the expenditure on the planned new "F-16I" line -- the "I" is for Israel -- will go to Israeli subcontractors, Mr. Stout estimated.
In St. Louis, Boeing officials acknowledged that they had expected the Israeli decision. "The F-15 is the higher-end strategic deterrent, but with the dollars available, the additional planes and their force structure was the priority for them," said Tom Downey, a spokesman for Boeing there.
The contract loss puts the F-15's future into further doubt, Mr. Downey said. Even before Israel's announcement, Boeing had announced that it was laying off 7,000 workers in Missouri after a March decision by the Greek Air Force to buy F-16's instead of F-15's. Production of the aircraft is slated to cease -- perhaps permanently -- next year.
Mr. Arens said it remained unclear whether the new F-16's will be equipped with their customary American-made Westinghouse radar or, as Israel would prefer, an Israeli radar system that he and other local military experts contend is more advanced. There has been resistance in Congress to the substitution of Israeli technology in the plane, he noted.
"It seems primarily to be a commercial consideration," Mr. Arens said. "It's like the way that Microsoft pushes its browser down your throat."
Mr. Arens, who served as Defense Minister three times, said he would favor reducing Israel's military aid from the United States if more of the remaining money could be spent on Israeli technology. "That is a solution that could be in both our interests," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); ITALY (78%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); ITALY (78%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ARMS SALES ABROAD MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HISTORY (76%); ARMIES (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); DESERT STORM (69%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN) EHUD BARAK (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



453 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Violent Crime Falls 7 Percent, To Lowest Level in Decades

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18

 BODY:
Violent crime in the United States dropped 7 percent last year to its lowest level since the Government began tracking the figure in 1973, the Justice Department said today.
The one-year decline, to about 8.1 million nonfatal violent crimes, was driven by a small but significant drop in aggravated assault rates, a Justice Department report said. 
 The decline in violent crime in 1998 continued a downward trend that began in 1994, said the report, the National Crime Victimization Survey.
"From 1997 to 1998, no significant changes in rates of rape or sexual assault, robbery or simple assault occurred," the report said. Rape and sexual assault were the only categories not to show a decline in 1997.
Attorney General Janet Reno cited several reasons for the decline in crime.
"It's because of more police officers on the streets, tougher sentences, more prosecutions, better prevention programs, a healthy economy and a new approach to crime fighting that involves a closer working relationship between communities and Federal, state and local law enforcement," Ms. Reno said.
Republicans have said they are relieved about the decline but warn that crime rates remain unacceptably high. They also have pointed to passage of anti-crime legislation since their party took control of Congress in 1995.
The Justice Department report said that from 1993 to 1998, rates of violent crime, which is defined as rape or sexual assault, robbery, aggravated assault and simple assault, fell 27 percent, to 37 per 1,000 Americans age 12 or older, from 50 per 1,000.
"Every major type of crime measured -- rape or sexual assault, robbery, aggravated assault, simple assault, burglary, theft and motor vehicle theft -- decreased significantly between 1993 and 1998," the study said.
The annual report, based on a survey of American households, excludes killings because it asks individuals about their own experiences.
But the report said preliminary figures released separately by the Federal Bureau of Investigation have shown that the number of homicides dropped about 8 percent from 1997 to 1998.
Each year the victimization survey analyzes data on nonfatal violent crimes reported to the police and those not reported to the police. In 1998, about 43,000 households and 80,000 people age 12 or older were interviewed, the report said.
Attackers used a weapon in about a fourth of violent offenses in 1998. About 40 percent of robbery victims faced a weapon, as did 9 percent of rape or sexual assault victims. Eight percent of violent incidents were committed by offenders armed with a firearm.
About half of the victims of violent crimes knew their assailants, Justice officials said. More than 70 percent of rape and sexual assault victims knew their attackers, and 50 percent of aggravated assault victims did.
"Almost half of all violent victimizations and about one-third of all property crimes were reported to police each year from 1993 to 1998," the survey said. "Females and blacks were more likely to report violent crimes than males and whites."
The survey also revealed a 12 percent drop in property crimes -- burglary, motor vehicle theft and household theft -- last year, and a 32 percent decline since 1993. Personal thefts, which include pocket picking and purse snatching, remained unchanged.
Motor vehicle thefts fell 22 percent from 1997 to 1998 because of a 20 percent drop in "completed motor vehicle theft" and a 27 percent decline in attempted vehicle theft.
Violent crimes against blacks fell to 42 incidents per 1,000 people from 49 per 1,000, the report said. Rates for Hispanic victims fell to 33 per 1,000 from 43 per 1,000.
Blacks still had a marginally higher overall violent crime victimization rate than whites and significantly higher rates than members of other races last year.
But blacks and whites did not differ significantly in the rates of victimization by robbery, simple assault, rape and sexual assault. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%); NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMIZATION SURVEY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ASSAULTS VIOLENT CRIME (94%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (94%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (92%); CRIME RATES (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MISDEMEANORS (90%); ROBBERY (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (88%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); BURGLARY (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); PROPERTY CRIMES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); TRENDS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); VANDALISM (76%); SENTENCING (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (59%); 

PERSON: JANET RENO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



454 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: New Neighbors Pushing at the Edge;
Brooklyn Hasidim Seek to Expand Into a Black and Hispanic Area

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE

 BODY:
Like many of his neighbors in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Charles O'Connor has grown accustomed during the last few months to frequent and unwanted visits from strangers interested in buying the home he has owned for 35 years. One day, though, the banging on his front door was like an alarm. Mr. O'Connor opened it to find a man hammering up a "For Sale" sign, even though he had already told the man's real estate company that he did not wish to sell.
"I said: 'What are you doing? This is my house,' " Mr. O'Connor recalled. "The man said, 'Are you sure?' and kept on going." 
 Since there is an auto parts shop directly behind it and vacant lots are a stone's throw away, Mr. O'Connor's four-story home near the edge of Bedford-Stuyvesant would not seem a desirable address. Yet his neighborhood has become the latest front in a long battle for living space involving Hasidim in Williamsburg, who have no room to expand, and their predominantly black and Hispanic neighbors in adjacent parts of Brooklyn.
For decades, as their numbers have swelled, the Satmar Hasidim have pushed east and north, colliding with resistance, particularly from Hispanic residents, in a fight as much about identity and cultural differences as real estate. Now the same struggle has started to the south, where the Hasidim are not only trying to buy homes from people like Mr. O'Connor but are also seeking variances to rezone about 40 industrial lots for condominiums, co-ops and apartments.
He and other longtime residents, fearful of rising rents and a loss of jobs, are accusing Hasidic leaders of block-busting and shady dealings. Many complain that they have been harassed by repeated nighttime knocks on their door from Hasidim interested in buying their property, and some say potential buyers have told them it would be wise to leave before the area becomes inhospitable.
Mr. O'Connor said potential buyers have told him to put up a "Not for Sale" sign if he wants to avoid further inquiries. It is a step some of his neighbors have already taken.
"People are afraid because of all the zoning changes from commercial to residential, and because the Hasidic community is buying all the available residential properties," said Peter Crisci, the Bishop of the Cathedral of St. Lucy, where many residents attend church. "They are afraid that these people are coming into the community not to build it up, but to create a community within a community, and that doesn't work."
The Hasidim dismiss the complaints as unrealistic, saying that they should be praised for trying to revitalize a sagging area of closed warehouses and boarded-up row houses that is just now beginning to benefit from dropping crime rates and an interest in its many loft spaces. Hasidic leaders and the developers working for the religious community say that most of the resistance is based on stereotypical beliefs that border on anti-Semitism.
"It is basically saying, 'Stay out of here,' " said Rabbi David Niederman, executive director of United Jewish Organizations. "I would hate to characterize why, but what has been said at various meetings is scary."
There have been numerous meetings at which each side's complaints about the other have been discussed, but those meetings have produced no real agreement, and have stopped. The Hasidim have pushed on with their development plans, further angering residents, who have responded with a lawsuit and letter-writing campaigns to politicians.
Last month, the Kent Avenue Block Association won a lawsuit in State Supreme Court to stop a plan to turn a commercial lot into housing for the Hasidim. The court sent the request for a zoning variance back to the Board of Standards and Appeals. Lawyers for the neighborhood group said other lawsuits might follow.
Meanwhile, Melvin Foster, chairman of a community group called the Neighborhood Stabilization Task Force, has lobbied local and state political leaders for support, and one of them, State Senator Velmanette Montgomery, a Democrat whose district includes Bedford-Stuyvesant, expressed sympathy. Mr. Foster also helped spur city planners to begin talking about rezoning the area to balance the community's needs for jobs and housing.
The controversy centers on a predominantly light-industrial area from Flushing Avenue south to DeKalb Avenue, and between Classon Avenue on the west and Marcy and Nostrand Avenues on the east.
According to the city's Board of Standards, which decides on variance requests, in the last three years developers have been allowed to build 385 units of housing in former manufacturing spaces in this area and in the most southern edge of Williamsburg. Variances that would add 433 more units in the area are before the board.
Although Pat Pacifico, a spokesman for the board, said the amount of housing was relatively small, some land use experts have worried that the variances will amount to a rezoning of the area. The housing is designed for Hasidic occupants, Mr. Pacifico said, noting that the variances describe buildings made up of three- to seven-bedroom apartments with amenities like kitchens suitable for observing kosher rules: they have two sinks and space for two refrigerators, so that meat and dairy products can be kept separate.
The Hasidim and their lawyers say they are merely doing what any well-organized group could accomplish by paying attention to land use law. They add that the housing will help the local economy, bringing in businesses and increasing the tax base. They talk of creating a neighborhood where people feel safe walking the streets at night. Residents say the neighborhood is already reasonably safe.
Rabbi Niederman says that developers have sought the Hasidim because they need housing and, unlike others, are willing to pay for new development. He characterizes the movement into Bedford-Stuyvesant as a reshuffling that would leave other apartments in Williamsburg open to "Jew, Latino, poor or rich."
But such thoughts give many longtime residents in Bedford-Stuyvesant pause. They speak of a past when they could walk to work and businesses flourished. They recall the hard times that followed, the crime and the closing of shops, a time when some say the neighborhood "burned like the South Bronx." Now that the future looks brighter, they worry that the benefits are headed toward somebody else.
At a community meeting, Wilfredo Perez, 23, said he and other residents were repeatedly "harassed" by individuals and real estate agents "asking us to sell or asking us who the landlord is so they can sell our homes out from under us."
"I've been here for 22 years and I don't want to be kicked out," added Beatrice Ponnelle, 49. "This is a low-income community and they're coming up with housing that nobody can afford even if we were allowed into it."
Rents have almost doubled during the last two years, and landlords are now charging up to $900 for one-bedroom apartments. Pointing to warehouses where relatives once worked, residents are worried about variances allowing their conversion to residences, cutting out even more jobs in their neighborhood. In one variance case, a developer bought out a manufacturer who threatened to block the construction of apartments in a factory next to his. The manufacturer then moved his business and its jobs to another area in the borough, his lawyer said.
These concerns could surface in any neighborhood facing development and a new population mixture. But residents in Bedford-Stuyvesant are also confronting a question of identity. A movement of mysticism founded in the 18th century, Hasidism requires practitioners to hold themselves apart from the secular world. They have their own religious court system, schools, kosher businesses and security patrols.
Fearing they will be slowly isolated, members of Mr. Foster's task force and other residents of Bedford-Stuyvesant talk of how their corner bodegas will be replaced by kosher groceries and how their longtime friends with be pushed out by a religious community. Realistically or not, they fear becoming second-class citizens who are ordered around on their own streets.
Already, residents say, some Hasidim in the area have complained about the ringing of church bells, and others have painted no-parking stripes on their streets to reserve spaces for cars and Hasidic school buses. Other homeowners say hopeful buyers are unwilling to take no for an answer.
"I can't see in one eye and can't walk the stairs, but they don't feel sorry that you're 83 years old and in bad health," said Francine Palmieri, who had her more able-bodied tenant, Peter Recine, 89, place a "Not for Sale" sign on their building's front door.
But residents like Abe Stein, 51, an Orthodox Jew who has lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant for 20 years and has run a manufacturing business there for 16, said that the unrest was being caused by people "who don't understand that the Hasidim are trying to live within the community."
While he said he had thought about selling his die-cutting factory for housing for the Hasidim, he added, "No one is trying to tell anyone that only Hasidim can live here."
Relations between the Hasidim and other residents remain tense, and some residents are beginning to worry that the current disagreement may turn into a replay of the groups' past disputes.
In the late 1970's, Hispanic and black residents in Williamsburg began to clash with Hasidic residents over what they considered preferential treatment given to Hasidic applicants seeking federally subsidized housing. Some Hispanic residents also complained that they were harassed by Hasidic security patrols while the police turned a blind eye to complaints about the patrols.
Both sides have tried to reconcile over the years, but the fuel that drives their animosity -- the lack of affordable housing in and around Williamsburg -- has remained.
"If the Hasidics move in, bias incidents could flare up," said Ruben R. Pratts, a member of Community Board 3 in Bedford-Stuyvesant, "because nobody here is going to stand by and be manhandled." He said neighbors have already been challenged by Hasidic security patrols.
The difficulty of changing such attitudes is not lost on Rabbi Niederman, who says he continues to urge talk with his neighbors to the south and wants to show them that the Hasidim are their "allies, not adversaries."
"Some people out there are instilling fear," he concluded. "But I would venture to say to any of them, 'Come to Williamsburg, come into the housing projects, and tell us we are not good neighbors.'
"We have African-Americans, Latinos, everybody, and everybody feels safe and secure," he said. "We want to make this area a better place to live for everyone."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A sign in Hebrew at Bedford and Flushing Avenues in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, announces a new housing development. Many of the new housing units in the area have kosher kitchens, equipped with dual refrigerators and sinks. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Map of Brooklyn showing the focus of the dispute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (87%); ZONING (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (67%); CRIME RATES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



455 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
Barak Has a Schedule For Middle East Peace
Ehud Barak, the Prime Minister of Israel, set a target deadline of 15 months for achieving a comprehensive framework for peace in the Middle East, a timeline chosen in part to dovetail with the American political calendar and the Presidential election, Israeli officials said. Opposition leaders in Parliament criticized Mr. Barak for defining a time period that could prove too short for a complex set of negotiations on different fronts at the same time. A1
 
Israel confirmed that it planned to add at least 50 more F-16's to an already formidable jet fighter fleet, signaling a determination to maintain decisive regional air power superiority even as it pursued peace deals with its neighbors. A6 

Israel has agreed to release the longest-serving Palestinian prisoner from jail, after holding him without charge or trial for nearly six years, officials said. A6
 
Milosevic Amnesty Suggested
Vuk Draskovic, left, a leading Serbian opposition politician, said the best way to get President Slobodan Milosevic out of power would be to get him to resign by promising immunity from arrest or extradition. A1
 
Colombia Peace Talks Falter
Negotiations between the Colombian Government and left-wing rebels were indefinitely postponed, the result of a dispute over the role that international observers would play. Shortly after, five soldiers and a guerrilla were killed when an army patrol was ambushed in a working-class neighborhood of Bogota. The action seemed intended to press President Andres Pastrana into further concessions. A9
 
Congo War Continues
Fighting continued in Congo, more than a week after the signing of a cease-fire accord to end the war. The rebels said they had captured more territory, and the countries embroiled in the year-old conflict traded accusations that the agreement had been violated. The refusal by the two main rebel groups to sign the accord appears to have prevented it from being carried out. A3
 
High Death Toll in Iraq Attack
United States air strikes in southern Iraq killed 14 civilians and wounded 17 others, the Iraqi military said. The death toll is the highest reported by Iraq since it started challenging the planes maintaining the no-flight zones over northern and southern Iraq in December. American officials did not confirm the toll. A6
 
Turkey Attacks in Iran
Turkish warplanes attacked targets in northwestern Iran, killing 5 people and wounding 10, Iranian news media reported. Turkey has been waging a counterinsurgency campaign in its southeastern provinces against members of the Kurdistan Workers Party. Turkey previously accused Iran of harboring Kurd guerrillas, which Iran denied. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A10-14
 
Kennedy Search Continues As Hope for Survival Fades
Searchers found more debris believed to have come from the single-engine airplane that disappeared Friday night carrying John F. Kennedy Jr., his wife and her sister. The Coast Guard gave up the search for survivors after conducting an intensive sweep of 364 square miles off the southern coastline of Martha's Vineyard. Efforts will now be focused on locating debris and recovering remains. Officials discounted the significance of a single ping from an emergency beacon that had been detected by a search aircraft, saying it may have been emitted by a Coast Guard marker. A1
 
Federal aviation officials have found no rule or regulation that was broken during Mr. Kennedy's ill-fated flight from New Jersey to Martha's Vineyard. National Transportation Safety Board investigators said there was no evidence yet as to whether pilot error, a mechanical flaw or something else had caused the plane to vanish. A12
 
Obituaries of Mr. Kennedy and Carolyn Bessette Kennedy. A14
 
U.S. Crime Continues Decline
Violent crime dropped 7 percent last year to its lowest level since the Government began tracking the figure in 1973, the Justice Department said. Attorney General Janet Reno attributed the improvement to more police officers and prosecutions, tougher sentencing, a healthy economy and better prevention programs and liaison among agencies. Republicans noted the passage of anti-crime legislation since their party took control of Congress in 1995. A10
 
Shuttle Gets Go-Ahead
NASA cleared the shuttle Columbia for liftoff shortly after midnight tonight, shrugging off last-minute technical concerns about the $1.5 billion telescope that is to be placed in orbit. It will be the first shuttle flight commanded by a woman, Col. Eileen M. Collins of the Air Force. A10
 
More Forceful Tactics
Senator John McCain, a Republican sponsor of legislation to overhaul campaign finance laws, said he would start using parliamentary tactics this week to try to force the issue to the Senate floor unless the majority leader agreed to set aside time for the bill's consideration. A11
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Second Day at 98 Degrees; Power Is Reduced in Bronx
The temperature in New York City climbed to 98 degrees for the second straight day, but the heat index, the combination of temperature and relative humidity, which had reached 108 on Saturday, dropped to 105. Officials said 36 people were hospitalized, and Con Edison reduced power for several hours to 80,000 households in the Bronx to avoid a blackout after two of the area's four feeder cables burned out. Mayor Giuliani urged New Yorkers to use as little electricity as possible. B1
 
A Popular Visitor
Hillary Rodham Clinton helped give a White House dinner for Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, a few hours after Mayor Giuliani conferred with Mr. Barak in New York City. B4
 
Mafia Turncoat Surfaces
Salvatore Gravano, the mob enforcer whose testimony in 1991 about the top echelons of Mafia life led to the jailing of 36 mobsters, including John J. Gotti, is living outside the witness protection program in Phoenix and told a newspaper he had no intention of "running from the Mafia." B6
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
A Perfect Day at the Stadium
David Cone pitched a perfect game to lead the Yankees over the Montreal Expos, 6-0. Cone's achievement came on Yogi Berra Day, when Don Larsen, the only pitcher to throw a perfect game in a World Series, tossed the ceremonial first pitch to Berra, who caught that game. A1
 
A Scot Wins at Home
Paul Lawrie came from 10 strokes back to win the British Open at Carnoustie, Scotland, in a three-way playoff against Jean Van de Velde and Justin Leonard. D1
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Library Getting Archives
The New York Public Library is to announce today that it has acquired the archives of Yaddo, the renowned artists' retreat upstate. E1
 
OBITUARIES A15
 
Donal McCann
An actor regarded by many as Ireland's best, he was 56. A15
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Telephone Takeover Battle
Qwest Communications International said U S West, the smallest of the regional Bell companies, had agreed to a $36.5 billion strategic merger. Global Crossing said it would continue with its pending $11 billion acquisition of Frontier, a long-distance carrier. The announcement resolved a fierce takeover battle between Qwest and Global Crossing. B6
 
The 2100 Computer Problem?
Experts are beginning to express concern that date-related computer problems are more pervasive than anyone realized and will continue well past Jan. 1, 2000. C1
 
The Decline of Taste
Some television executives and social scientists say the rapid dissipation of taste and language restrictions in mass media is fueled by shifting standards and the financial need to present programming that appeals to audiences. C1
 
Deal on Internet Phone Calling
Broadcom, a leading maker of high-speed communications semiconductors, agreed to buy Hothaus Technologies for $280 million in stock, to enhance its position in the emerging market for phone calls using Internet technology. C2
 
Markets Higher in Tokyo
Stock prices in Japan were higher today. At the midday break, the benchmark Nikkei 225-stock index stood at 18,426.70, up 178.40 points, or just under 1 percent. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: Tragedy revisits the Kennedys; Russia's nuclear defense; an opening for campaign reform.
 
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
 
Public Lives A10
 
Crossword E4
 
TV Listings E8
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather D10
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); TURKEY (94%); IRAQ (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); TURKEY (94%); IRAQ (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); ARMIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); IMMUNITY (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (61%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



456 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Broadcom Plans to Acquire Hothaus for $280 Million
Broadcom, a leading maker of high-speed communications semiconductors, has agreed to buy Hothaus Technologies for $280 million in stock. Broadcom will issue two million of its Class B shares for Hothaus, a closely held developer of software that enables communications over broadband networks.
The acquisition will enhance Broadcom's position in the emerging market for phone calls using Internet technology. Page C2. 

U S West Agrees to Qwest Merger
The takeover battle for U S West and Frontier ended in a compromise Sunday as U S West accepted an unsolicited merger offer from Qwest Communications International and Global Crossing said it would stay with its merger partner Frontier. The Metro Section.
 
Boston: Hub of Technology Journals
Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are two reasons that Boston has become a center for publications about technology and business. There are the old-timers like International Data Group, which started Computer World magazine 35 years ago and now produces more than 300 publications, and Inc. magazine, which has called Boston home for two decades and recently added another publication: Inc. Technology. Sprinkled around the city are Fast Company, Technology Review, Harvard Business Review, PC Week and Electronic Business, to name just a few. C10.
 
Israel Orders Lockheed Martin Jets
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak said Israel planned to buy 50 new F-16E fighter bombers from Lockheed Martin at a cost of $2.5 billion, and has an option for up to 60 additional jets for another $2 billion. Israel already has more than 250 F-16's. International News.
 
Keeping Up on News, in Elevators
Captivate Network, a start-up company in Westford, Mass., is providing entertainment for fidgety people in elevators. It has begun to install network terminals that pull information like weather, traffic, sports and stock updates off the Internet. C6.
 
Service Set to Monitor the Internet
A monitoring service called Leading Web Advertisers is being introduced to provide information about advertising on Web sites. It will offer subscribers data on which marketers are running ads, when and where those ads appeared and what they looked like. The goal is to bring accountability to the Web as ad spending in cyberspace continues its rapid growth. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C12.
 
Digital Music 101
The Recording Industry Association of America's Secure Digital Music Initiative last week released a set of standards that consumer electronics companies will have to adopt if they want to make devices that play commercially recorded music. But don't presume they will be the same a year from now. C6.
 
Will Users Pay for Internet Service?
Internet investors, entrepreneurs and analysts have convinced each other that the only truly Internet-centered business model is one in which on-line users pay nothing for content. But this concept is starting to crack. C6.
 
Imus Dropped by Boston Station
WEEI radio station in Boston said it decided to drop the Don Imus show because Mr. Imus had been losing his edge. C10.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Drawing
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 11,209.84, up 16.14
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.88%, down 0.12
The Dollar -- 120.98 yen, down 1.40

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BRCM (NASDAQ) (91%); CTL (NYSE) (74%); LMT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (74%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (74%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BROADCOM CORP (91%); CENTURYLINK INC (74%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (56%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MERGERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (87%); RECORD INDUSTRY (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (74%); BROADBAND (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); STARTUPS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); MUSIC (64%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



457 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
M.I.T. and Harvard Give Boston a Niche

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY 

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 18

 BODY:
To meet Boston's technology elite, first finagle an invitation to one of Robert M. Metcalfe's parties. His salons, as Mr. Metcalfe -- co-inventor of the computer technology named Ethernet -- calls them, are high-technology schmooze sessions, with perhaps a string of investors chatting up a chief executive in the hallway or two entrepreneurs courting a partnership at dinner.
But who invited the journalists? On a given night at Mr. Metcalfe's Back Bay home, it is not surprising to find a representative from the publications of International Data Group in one corner, an editor of Fast Company in another and staff members from M.I.T.'s Technology Review mingling among the suits. 
 Boston is lousy with editors these days, now that the city has become something of a center for publications about technology and business. There are the old-timers like I.D.G., which started Computer World magazine here 35 years ago and now produces over 300 publications, and Inc. magazine, which has called Boston home for two decades and recently added another publication: Inc. Technology. Sprinkled around the city are Fast Company, Technology Review, Harvard Business Review, PC Week, Electronic Business, Software Magazine and Web Guide.
Why Boston? Some point to the city's rich publishing history and the historical importance of the loop of high-technology companies on Route 128, which rings the city. But the real reason can be summed up in two names: Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Explaining why I.D.G. began in Boston, its chief executive, Kelly Conlin, said, "The founder went to M.I.T., and so that was where he was." Mr. Conlin himself came to Boston via the Harvard Business School.
The two universities do supply a pool of talent, says Alan M. Webber, a founding editor of the three-year-old Fast Company, a business magazine aimed at young professionals.
"It's kind of the same phenomenon as 128 in its heyday, only applied to information and writing," Mr. Webber said. "We've got a lot of smart people, well-educated people, a lot of people who take business ideas very seriously."
Eastern Massachusetts does have its fill of biotechnology companies, software start-ups and teaching hospitals, which lends some weight when publishers here say they have a broader economic base to work with than Wired, Red Herring and their other chip-focused counterparts out West.
Is it just superciliousness from a coast that lost the battle for computer supremacy? The Boston magazines cover the goings-on out West as well, but being away from the "froth" of personalities and issues in Silicon Valley has its advantages, Mr. Webber said.
"It gives us a little bit of distance from the personalities, the issues, the ideas, so we're able to write to an international business audience without coming directly from Silicon Valley, as if we were only interested in the goings-on in Silicon Valley," he said. "You get a little bit better line of sight into the business and technology if you're not in the belly of the beast."
One magazine that is reveling in the local mix of academia and industry is M.I.T.'s Technology Review. A 100-year-old magazine, it metamorphosed last year when R. Bruce Journey, the new publisher, had the idea of replacing the editor, laying off all but a few members of the old staff and changing the focus from sometimes Luddite reviews to more upbeat coverage of innovation in technology, science and business. After doing everything short of taking a wrecking ball to the publication, Mr. Journey, a former Fortune executive, then boasted that he could double the number of readers and triple the ad base.
Surprisingly, it worked. With the dust still settling from the demolition, the renewed Technology Review is posting a number better than its own prediction: circulation has jumped to 205,000 from 92,000.
"We don't fit everywhere," Mr. Journey said, trying to describe the niche the magazine is creating. "We're not business, we're not I.T., we're not a policy whip magazine."
The magazine is gambling in its attempt to mix science and the marketplace, two sectors that traditionally keep each other at arm's length. But the economy is good, the ad team aggressive, and the staff confident that Technology Review will survive, even after the $2.5 million the M.I.T. alumni association pumped into its renewal is used up.
In a city the size of Boston, there is bound to be some publishing incest. Both Mr. Webber and William C. Taylor were editors at Harvard Business Review before leaving to found Fast Company. Mr. Metcalfe is a pundit for I.D.G. as well as a board member for Technology Review. With all the sharing of leadership, the big question is whether there is enough readership to go around. Mr. Metcalfe is optimistic.
"This is a time when technology is being both celebrated and analyzed," he said. "What a great time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The influence of Harvard and M.I.T. in the Boston area has aided the success of both old and new business and technology magazines published there. A founding editor of one magazine says there is an advantage to being removed from the "froth" of Silicon Valley. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY; MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; TECHNOLOGY REVIEW (MAGAZINE) INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY; MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; TECHNOLOGY REVIEW (MAGAZINE) HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS); UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); WRITERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); PUBLISHING (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (62%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (51%); HOSPITALS (50%); 

PERSON: JOURNEY, R BRUCE; FLAHERTY, JULIE ROBERT M METCALFE (78%); ALAN M WEBBER (65%); R BRUCE JOURNEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



458 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: LINCOLN CENTER FESTIVAL REVIEW;
Artistic and Political Fireworks Erupt In Dutch Troupe

BYLINE: By ANNA KISSELGOFF 

 BODY:
Deep conviction or cheap shot? That is the question to ask of the surprise antiwar protest with which Jiri Kylian ended a new program by his Nederlands Dans Theater as part of Lincoln Center Festival '99.
Rarely has anyone whipped an audience into such an exhilarating high and then brought it down so brutally as Mr. Kylian did on Friday night with his feelings about the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia. 
 Or, to give Mr. Kylian his due, he is equally concerned about the feelings of those he views as aggressors. Seemingly out of nowhere, the voice of an American television correspondent was heard on tape at the New York State Theater, likening the bombing to the fireworks of a Fourth of July.
Mr. Kylian had just staged his own fireworks on several levels in "Arcimboldo," a piece d'occasion made up of excerpts from a 1995 work with the same name. Scores of men and women in blazing red hoop skirts had run down the side aisles of the theater and filled the stage with an exuberant and hilarious dance parody (set to the Tchaikovsky polonaise that George Balanchine used in his "Theme and Variations").
But when the television tape was played, the festivities stopped. The dancers collapsed in darkness, transformed into victims of war. The music was now a sober song from Schubert's Winterreise cycle ("Der Leiermann"), and three performers from an earlier piece sat at a table and wiped makeup off their faces.
War is not a show. But an idiotic remark by a television journalist does not mean that bombing is regarded by all as a festive occasion. A population, it is true, can be whipped up into a war frenzy as easily as a choreographer can whip up an audience into a happy delirium with dancers galumphing in red Baroque costumes.
Mr. Kylian makes this last point in a coup de theatre, complete with a clever deflation, that registers as an immediate shock. One does not doubt the depth of his pacifist beliefs. In 1981 New York audiences saw his stirring "Soldier's Mass," which spoke of the futility of war. Yet there he was also at odds with his music, a cantata by Bohuslav Martinu urging fellow Czechoslovaks on the eve of World War II to crush the enemy.
The trouble with absolutist beliefs is that they can lead to simplistic counterarguments. Mr. Kylian left his native Czechoslovakia in 1967. Should one say that he was able to pursue his career in Western Europe because NATO, as a deterrent against Soviet forces, made it safe for him during the cold war?
As for the question of deep conviction or cheap shot, both answers apply. The choreography for the full "Arcimboldo," inspired by a 16th-century painter, does not usually end with a jab about NATO bombing. That was reserved for New York audiences.
The evening, for the most part, was conventional enough, which accounted for the effectiveness of the finale. The cast there, augmented by students from the Juilliard School, was made up of the three companies that are part of Nederlands Dans Theater (billed here in the past as Netherlands Dance Theater).
The three troupes also appeared independently on the program. NDT1, the senior troupe, was seen in two Kylian pieces with the same striking choreographic style of "One of a Kind," the brilliant work that opened the engagement earlier.
The title "Bella Figura" apparently refers to an Italian expression for putting up a good front, and Mr. Kylian's program note suggests an investigation into the nature of performance. Onstage, however, one sees powerful and intricate dancing, often for couples and trios. The music includes part of Lukas Foss's "Salomon Rossi Suite" and weaves in some Italians (Pergolesi, Marcello, Vivaldi, Torelli). The production values are unusual, to say the least: A male and a female nude are suspended in plastic boxes at the start and then replaced by curtains that close in or open the dancer's space. Flames shoot up in a rear corner.
Mr. Kylian's lighting design is a strong formal element, but the dancing has an unnamed emotional tension. The broad expressive gesture of Mr. Kylian's early works has given way to a taut balletic line in the women that coils around the men's swift, gymnastic bodies.
At the same time there is an adult look to these dancers that is rare in American companies. This is tough dancing, no matter how playful the movement, with its slides across the floor and shoulder rotations. The cast (Megumi Nakamura, Isabelle Chauffaud, Stefan Zeromski, Cora Bos-Kroese, Joeri de Korte, Elke Schepers, Ken Ossola, Lorraine Blouin and Johan Inger) was splendid.
Mr. Kylian's focus on isolated body movements is less inventive in "Wings of Wax," whose sense of desolation is nonetheless striking. The music (Heinrich von Biber, John Cage, Philip Glass, Bach) fits the dancing best in the passages culled from Bach's "Goldberg" Variations. A tree, hanging upside down as a theatrical light revolves around it, has something to do with the myth of Icarus and adds to the unhappy tone.
By contrast, the younger dancers in NDT2 (Amos Ben-Tal, Christophe Dozzi, Shintaro O-ue and Natasha Crook) are all exuberant and rubbery legged in "Skew-Whiff," by Paul Lightfoot. It is a clever, impudent piece for dancers full of stamina.
Mr. Kylian does some of his best work for mature dancers in NDT3 and "A Way a Lone: To Somebody No Longer Here" offered a stunning mixed-media interplay between dancers on film and onstage. Sabine Kupferberg, David Krugel and Gerard Lemaitre were the poignant contemporary clowns. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NEDERLANDS DANS THEATER NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEDERLANDS DANS THEATER NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; LINCOLN CENTER FESTIVAL '99; REVIEWS FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCE (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DANCERS (87%); MUSIC (86%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); COLD WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PAINTING (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); 

PERSON: KISSELGOFF, ANNA GEORGE BALANCHINE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



459 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: McCain Renews Push for Debate On Campaign Finance Overhaul

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18

 BODY:
Senator John McCain, a sponsor of legislation to overhaul the campaign finance laws, said today that he would start using parliamentary tactics this week to try to force the issue to the Senate floor unless Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, agreed to set aside a "reasonable period of time" to consider the bill.
Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican who has made his effort to reduce the influence of money in politics the centerpiece of his long-shot campaign for his party's Presidential nomination, said he had begun negotiations with Mr. Lott on Thursday and was awaiting a response. 
 In an interview, Mr. McCain said he wanted "a week or so" of Senate time devoted to the issue, with ample time to consider amendments. Otherwise, he said he would look for opportunities this week to attach the measure to unrelated legislation to force it to the floor.
Mr. Lott of Mississippi has been a steadfast opponent of Mr. McCain's bill. Today, on "Fox News Sunday," he said it "is not the solution." He expressed interest instead in legislation to make it harder for organized labor, generally a strong supporter of Democrats, to use union dues for political causes.
Mr. Lott's spokesman, John Czwartacki, said he expected a proposal "for how best we can address the campaign finance issue" to be made to Senator McCain tomorrow.
But in his television appearance, Mr. Lott did not sound as if he was prepared to schedule debate time soon. "I'm going to try to encourage him to find some other way to do it or wait until the end of the year," he said of Mr. McCain.
The legislation that Mr. McCain is sponsoring with Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, would ban the unlimited and unregulated donations of soft money to political parties that have increasingly been used as a way around the limits on contributions to Federal candidates that were enacted after the Watergate scandal.
The bill would also establish limits in the period approaching elections on issue advocacy commercials that are thinly veiled efforts to support or oppose particular candidates. Aides to Mr. McCain said it was possible that a somewhat altered version of the bill could be introduced in the next few days.
The legislation is opposed by Republican leaders who say it would encroach on First Amendment guarantees of free speech. The Republican Party traditionally raises more soft money than the Democrats.
Still, the legislation won a majority last year in the House and Senate. But while 52 senators voted for the bill, its sponsors could not draw the additional eight votes needed to stop a Republican filibuster.
And this year supporters have had difficulty getting the legislation to the floor. In the House, the bill's sponsors had hoped to put pressure on the Senate and give the issue momentum by passing the legislation by Memorial Day. But Speaker J. Dennis Hastert refused to allow the bill to the floor until September.
Now Mr. McCain said he had decided to try to spur Senate action. He said he wanted to see if he could increase support for the bill by making changes by amendment. Mr. McCain said he thought he might pick up votes if he were willing to increase $1,000 limit on what an individual can give to a Federal candidate to take inflation into account. The contribution limit has not been raised since it was enacted.
A Senate debate now on campaign finance would also give Mr. McCain a platform to amplify one of his Presidential campaign themes. In an address in New Hampshire last month he called on Republican voters to rise up against a campaign finance system that he described as "an elaborate influence-peddling scheme in which both parties conspire to stay in office by selling the country to the highest bidder."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, makes an impromptu Fourth of July radio address from his Capitol Hill office. (Shana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; LABOR UNIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (67%); SPONSORSHIP (58%); 

PERSON: LOTT, TRENT (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); MITCHELL, ALISON JOHN MCCAIN (94%); TRENT LOTT (90%); RUSS FEINGOLD (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



460 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 1;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: New Neighbors Pushing at the Edge;
Brooklyn Hasidim Seek to Expand Into a Black and Hispanic Area

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE

 BODY:
Like many of his neighbors in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Charles O'Connor has grown accustomed during the last few months to frequent and unwanted visits from strangers interested in buying the home he has owned for 35 years. One day, though, the banging on his front door was like an alarm. Mr. O'Connor opened it to find a man hammering up a "For Sale" sign, even though he had already told the man's real estate company that he did not wish to sell.
"I said: 'What are you doing? This is my house,' " Mr. O'Connor recalled. "The man said, 'Are you sure?' and kept on going." 
 Since there is an auto parts shop directly behind it and vacant lots are a stone's throw away, Mr. O'Connor's four-story home near the edge of Bedford-Stuyvesant would not seem a desirable address. Yet his neighborhood has become the latest front in a long battle for living space involving Hasidim in Williamsburg, who have no room to expand, and their predominantly black and Hispanic neighbors in adjacent parts of Brooklyn.
For decades, as their numbers have swelled, the Satmar Hasidim have pushed east and north, colliding with resistance, particularly from Hispanic residents, in a fight as much about identity and cultural differences as real estate. Now the same struggle has started to the south, where the Hasidim are not only trying to buy homes from people like Mr. O'Connor but are also seeking variances to rezone about 40 industrial lots for condominiums, co-ops and apartments.
He and other longtime residents, fearful of rising rents and a loss of jobs, are accusing Hasidic leaders of block-busting and shady dealings. Many complain that they have been harassed by repeated nighttime knocks on their door from Hasidim interested in buying their property, and some say potential buyers have told them it would be wise to leave before the area becomes inhospitable.
Mr. O'Connor said potential buyers have told him to put up a "Not for Sale" sign if he wants to avoid further inquiries. It is a step some of his neighbors have already taken.
"People are afraid because of all the zoning changes from commercial to residential, and because the Hasidic community is buying all the available residential properties," said Peter Crisci, the Bishop of the Cathedral of St. Lucy, where many residents attend church. "They are afraid that these people are coming into the community not to build it up, but to create a community within a community, and that doesn't work."
The Hasidim dismiss the complaints as unrealistic, saying that they should be praised for trying to revitalize a sagging area of closed warehouses and boarded-up row houses that is just now beginning to benefit from dropping crime rates and an interest in its many loft spaces. Hasidic leaders and the developers working for the religious community say that most of the resistance is based on stereotypical beliefs that border on anti-Semitism.
"It is basically saying, 'Stay out of here,' " said Rabbi David Niederman, executive director of United Jewish Organizations. "I would hate to characterize why, but what has been said at various meetings is scary."
There have been numerous meetings at which each side's complaints about the other have been discussed, but those meetings have produced no real agreement, and have stopped. The Hasidim have pushed on with their development plans, further angering residents, who have responded with a lawsuit and letter-writing campaigns to politicians.
Last month, the Kent Avenue Block Association won a lawsuit in State Supreme Court to stop a plan to turn a commercial lot into housing for the Hasidim. The court sent the request for a zoning variance back to the Board of Standards and Appeals. Lawyers for the neighborhood group said other lawsuits might follow.
Meanwhile, Melvin Foster, chairman of a community group called the Neighborhood Stabilization Task Force, has lobbied local and state political leaders for support, and one of them, State Senator Velmanette Montgomery, a Democrat whose district includes Bedford-Stuyvesant, expressed sympathy. Mr. Foster also helped spur city planners to begin talking about rezoning the area to balance the community's needs for jobs and housing.
The controversy centers on a predominantly light-industrial area from Flushing Avenue south to DeKalb Avenue, and between Classon Avenue on the west and Marcy and Nostrand Avenues on the east.
According to the city's Board of Standards, which decides on variance requests, in the last three years developers have been allowed to build 385 units of housing in former manufacturing spaces in this area and in the most southern edge of Williamsburg. Variances that would add 433 more units in the area are before the board.
Although Pat Pacifico, a spokesman for the board, said the amount of housing was relatively small, some land use experts have worried that the variances will amount to a rezoning of the area. The housing is designed for Hasidic occupants, Mr. Pacifico said, noting that the variances describe buildings made up of three- to seven-bedroom apartments with amenities like kitchens suitable for observing kosher rules: they have two sinks and space for two refrigerators, so that meat and dairy products can be kept separate.
The Hasidim and their lawyers say they are merely doing what any well-organized group could accomplish by paying attention to land use law. They add that the housing will help the local economy, bringing in businesses and increasing the tax base. They talk of creating a neighborhood where people feel safe walking the streets at night. Residents say the neighborhood is already reasonably safe.
Rabbi Niederman says that developers have sought the Hasidim because they need housing and, unlike others, are willing to pay for new development. He characterizes the movement into Bedford-Stuyvesant as a reshuffling that would leave other apartments in Williamsburg open to "Jew, Latino, poor or rich."
But such thoughts give many longtime residents in Bedford-Stuyvesant pause. They speak of a past when they could walk to work and businesses flourished. They recall the hard times that followed, the crime and the closing of shops, a time when some say the neighborhood "burned like the South Bronx." Now that the future looks brighter, they worry that the benefits are headed toward somebody else.
At a community meeting, Wilfredo Perez, 23, said he and other residents were repeatedly "harassed" by individuals and real estate agents "asking us to sell or asking us who the landlord is so they can sell our homes out from under us."
"I've been here for 22 years and I don't want to be kicked out," added Beatrice Ponnelle, 49. "This is a low-income community and they're coming up with housing that nobody can afford even if we were allowed into it."
Rents have almost doubled during the last two years, and landlords are now charging up to $900 for one-bedroom apartments. Pointing to warehouses where relatives once worked, residents are worried about variances allowing their conversion to residences, cutting out even more jobs in their neighborhood. In one variance case, a developer bought out a manufacturer who threatened to block the construction of apartments in a factory next to his. The manufacturer then moved his business and its jobs to another area in the borough, his lawyer said.
These concerns could surface in any neighborhood facing development and a new population mixture. But residents in Bedford-Stuyvesant are also confronting a question of identity. A movement of mysticism founded in the 18th century, Hasidism requires practitioners to hold themselves apart from the secular world. They have their own religious court system, schools, kosher businesses and security patrols.
Fearing they will be slowly isolated, members of Mr. Foster's task force and other residents of Bedford-Stuyvesant talk of how their corner bodegas will be replaced by kosher groceries and how their longtime friends with be pushed out by a religious community. Realistically or not, they fear becoming second-class citizens who are ordered around on their own streets.
Already, residents say, some Hasidim in the area have complained about the ringing of church bells, and others have painted no-parking stripes on their streets to reserve spaces for cars and Hasidic school buses. Other homeowners say hopeful buyers are unwilling to take no for an answer.
"I can't see in one eye and can't walk the stairs, but they don't feel sorry that you're 83 years old and in bad health," said Francine Palmieri, who had her more able-bodied tenant, Peter Recine, 89, place a "Not for Sale" sign on their building's front door.
But residents like Abe Stein, 51, an Orthodox Jew who has lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant for 20 years and has run a manufacturing business there for 16, said that the unrest was being caused by people "who don't understand that the Hasidim are trying to live within the community."
While he said he had thought about selling his die-cutting factory for housing for the Hasidim, he added, "No one is trying to tell anyone that only Hasidim can live here."
Relations between the Hasidim and other residents remain tense, and some residents are beginning to worry that the current disagreement may turn into a replay of the groups' past disputes.
In the late 1970's, Hispanic and black residents in Williamsburg began to clash with Hasidic residents over what they considered preferential treatment given to Hasidic applicants seeking federally subsidized housing. Some Hispanic residents also complained that they were harassed by Hasidic security patrols while the police turned a blind eye to complaints about the patrols.
Both sides have tried to reconcile over the years, but the fuel that drives their animosity -- the lack of affordable housing in and around Williamsburg -- has remained.
"If the Hasidics move in, bias incidents could flare up," said Ruben R. Pratts, a member of Community Board 3 in Bedford-Stuyvesant, "because nobody here is going to stand by and be manhandled." He said neighbors have already been challenged by Hasidic security patrols.
The difficulty of changing such attitudes is not lost on Rabbi Niederman, who says he continues to urge talk with his neighbors to the south and wants to show them that the Hasidim are their "allies, not adversaries."
"Some people out there are instilling fear," he concluded. "But I would venture to say to any of them, 'Come to Williamsburg, come into the housing projects, and tell us we are not good neighbors.'
"We have African-Americans, Latinos, everybody, and everybody feels safe and secure," he said. "We want to make this area a better place to live for everyone."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about Hasidim who are seeking to move into Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, referred incorrectly to a billboard. Though it included some Hebrew expressions, the sign was in Yiddish.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A sign in Hebrew at Bedford and Flushing Avenues in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, announces a new housing development. Many of the new housing units in the area have kosher kitchens, equipped with dual refrigerators and sinks. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Map of Brooklyn showing the focus of the dispute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. RELIGION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (87%); ZONING (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (67%); CRIME RATES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999



461 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Fast Track Isn't Fast Enough

BYLINE: By Mack McLarty; Mack McLarty was President Clinton's first chief of staff and his special envoy for the Americas.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
"This is our fast track." So said leaders of the European Union last month as they signed the Rio Declaration calling for free-trade talks between the union and Latin America and the Caribbean. Although the obstacles to any substantive agreement are large, this challenge to United States leadership in the hemisphere must not be ignored.
Since Congress failed last year to give President Clinton fast track negotiating authority, trade in the Americas has been stalled. In my view, it is time to rethink our approach. For the sake of free trade, it's time to abandon fast track -- at least for now. 
 Fast-track legislation, developed in the early 1970's to smooth Congressional consideration of trade agreements, now threatens by its absence to stop trade negotiations before they start. Let's put the horse back before the cart. Rather than asking Congress to consider broad, abstract fast-track authority, President Clinton should send Congress a concrete free-trade agreement.
When presented with specifics, Congress repeatedly votes pro-trade. Congress has supported the North American Free Trade Agreement, the World Trade Organization and trade relations with China. A recent poll by the Association of Women in International Trade shows that Democrats, Republicans, business owners and, yes, even union members support the concept of free trade by a 2-to-1 ratio.
The challenge is to tap this broad support. It is easier to put a human face on trade when tangible benefits are at hand. With a real agreement before Congress, the winners know who they are and can mobilize public opinion. The few hurt by such an agreement can be helped with worker retraining and transition assistance.
The most logical candidate for a free-trade agreement is Chile, a country whose center-left Government shows sensitivity to environmental concerns and working conditions, a country whose economy is a model for Latin American and the world.
This spring in Santiago, I urged the Chilean Government and business leaders to renew their quest for an agreement with the United States. I received a warm response, and President Eduardo Frei's new chief of staff -- Jose Miguel Insulza, the former Foreign Minister -- recently endorsed such bilateral trade talks.
I now urge the Clinton Administration to stop waiting for fast track. The United States and Chile should begin talks this summer on an agreement, using Nafta as a model. Chile has said that it would comply with the vast majority of Nafta's terms, including labor and environmental provisions. Such an agreement would complement Chile's membership in Mercosur, South America's trade bloc.
Of course, without fast track, Chile could make politically sensitive concessions only to see Congress try to change the agreement. But Chile can stipulate that it will not accept amendments -- the same option available to any sovereign state negotiating with the United States. If Chile coordinates carefully with Congress and the Administration, an agreement is within reach.
The United States exports more than $4 billion worth of goods each year to Chile, amounting to a $1.5 billion trade surplus. We sell more to Chile, a country of 14 million people, than we do to India, a country of almost a billion. But our companies and workers are now at a competitive disadvantage to competitors in Canada and Mexico, who already have free-trade agreements with Chile.
I see encouraging signs that members of Congress in both parties are tired of the old polarized trade debate. It is time to capitalize on this opportunity. A trade agreement with Chile can be a bridge between South America and North America. As an old friend of mine might say, it would be the bridge to the 21st century. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: NAF (FRA) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%); 

COUNTRY: CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (77%); 

COMPANY: NAFTA AS (62%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (77%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); WOMEN (66%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); 

PERSON: MCLARTY, MACK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



462 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Resume Trade Talks With Beijing

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19

 BODY:
A senior Commerce Department official will travel to China next week for the first round of economic talks between the two nations since NATO's bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, the Clinton Administration said today.
David Aaron, Commerce Undersecretary for International Trade, will be in Beijing on July 26-27 for discussions with senior Chinese trade and industry officials. 
 Administration officials said they hope Mr. Aaron's trip will help restart talks Beijing broke off in anger following the May 7 bombing, which NATO insists was an accident. He will be the first American official since the bombing to make a trip to Beijing that is not directly related to the bombing. Other American officials have visited to explain to China that NATO mistook the embassy for a Yugoslav military site and to discuss compensation for the Chinese who were killed or injured.
The United States would like to resume talks on China's 13-year effort to join the World Trade Organization. For that to occur, China will have to strike a deal lowering numerous barriers to sales of American manufactured goods and farm products in China. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%); 

PERSON: AARON, DAVID (UNDER SEC) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



463 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Raises Tax on Food From Europe

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19

 BODY:
In the latest round of a continuing dispute with Europe, the United States today imposed tariffs intended to double the price of imports as familiar as Dijon mustard from France and as obscure as the "guts, bladders and stomachs of animals (other than fish), whole and pieces thereof."
The tariffs, announced by the Deputy trade representative, Peter Scher, had been expected. They will take effect July 29 and are intended to cover $116.8 million in annual imports, almost all of it food, from members of the European Union. 
 United States trade officials were reacting to a European Union ban on United States beef treated with growth hormones. The World Trade Organization, which sets rules for global commerce, declared last week that the European ban was unjustified because there was no scientific evidence of a health danger linked to hormone-treated beef.
"We would like nothing better than getting to a negotiated settlement," Mr. Scher said. "Retaliation doesn't solve the problem."
The penalties announced today do not cover two popular products that had been considered for high tariffs: Evian and Perrier mineral water, both imported from France.
Pork products make up the biggest category subject to the tariffs. Other foods include Roquefort cheese, truffles, chocolate and lingonberry and raspberry jams. There are two non-food products on the list: yarn and glue products, both from France and Germany.
Britain is exempt from the tariff sanctions because British officials support the United States position that the ban on beef should be lifted, Mr. Scher said.
Mr. Scher said the list of products to be penalized was intended to inflict the most economic damage on France, Germany, Italy and Denmark. France and Germany each account for 24 percent of the imports to be affected; Italy, 21 percent, and Denmark, 15 percent. Therefore, he said, they have the most incentive to get the European ban on United States beef overturned.
The products facing the punitive action are subject to few if any tariffs now, Mr. Scher said, adding that Washington is not really interested in the revenue that higher tariffs might generate. "That doesn't help the American beef farmers," he said. "We don't want to force the Europeans to buy our beef. We just want the right to sell to them."
Mr. Scher said his office considered comments from American retailers and the effect on American consumers in compiling the list of foods subject to the tariffs. Mr. Scher said he would rather see European exporters get discouraged and press the European Union to relent on United States beef than have Americans pay more at the grocery store.
Earlier this year, the Clinton Administration drew up a preliminary list of $900 million worth of European items that could be subjected to tariffs but cut the list to $116.8 million after the World Trade Organization estimated that was what the beef ban was costing United States beef producers. The United States beef industry has said its annual losses from the decade-old ban are much higher than that. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); DENMARK (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); DENMARK (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); MEAT; HORMONES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MEATS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BEEF (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); PORK (73%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (69%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); RETAILERS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (59%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID; SCHER, PETER; STOUT, DAVID HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



464 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Selling City Guides to Ticketmaster for $240 Million

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI 

 BODY:
The Microsoft Corporation agreed yesterday to sell its Sidewalk series of Internet city guides to a rival, Ticketmaster Online-Citysearch, in a stock deal worth $240 million.
Microsoft confirmed that the deal, news of which had emerged during the weekend, would give it a 9 percent stake in Ticketmaster with the option to increase that eventually to 13 percent. Ticketmaster Online-Citysearch, which is controlled by USA Networks, will fold the Sidewalk sites into its network of Citysearch sites. 
 As it retreats from the city-guide business, Microsoft will retain two components of Sidewalk -- its buying guides and searchable business directories -- and fold them into a new local service on its MSN network. Ticketmaster Online will provide much of the content for that as-yet-unnamed MSN service, including ticketing, personal dating services and arts and entertainment reviews, company officials said.
Microsoft will also feature Ticketmaster's ticket-selling operation throughout the MSN network and on its WebTV service.
"In one fell swoop, Citysearch got rid of a rival and gained a distribution partner," said Lisa Allen, an analyst with Forrester Research, an Internet consulting firm. "It gives Citysearch an immediate presence in some big markets, and it gives Microsoft a graceful exit from its city-guide strategy."
Ticketmaster Online's chief executive, Charles Conn, said that the cross-marketing agreement included no restrictions, allowing Citysearch to continue providing content to MSN's rivals.
Sidewalk and the Citysearch service, which both offer on-line information about local entertainment, news and shopping in dozens of cities, have been rivals since Sidewalk opened its first site in early 1997, months after Citysearch started its service.
Microsoft initially hired experienced journalists to produce a kind of on-line magazine and event guide. But the company shifted Sidewalk from that emphasis as an anticipated boom in advertising from restaurants and theaters failed to materialize. Instead, it veered more toward electronic commerce and product information.
Citysearch, though, has cashed in on arts and entertainment content by selling tickets and offering a dating section and local auctions.
The deal, which is expected to close in the fall, will allow Citysearch to more than double the number of city sites it runs, from 33 to 77 worldwide. Citysearch, now the third-most- popular city guide network as measured by Media Metrix, a Internet research firm, would become the largest, attracting an estimated 7 million monthly visitors. Citysearch would reach nearly 11 percent of Internet users in the United States each month.
The Digital Cities service of America Online would remain in second place among city guides, with a 6.3 percent reach. New York Today, owned by The New York Times Company, competes with Sidewalk and Citysearch in the New York market.
Microsoft rarely sells businesses; moreover, the Sidewalk sale represents another step in the evolution of the company's Internet strategy away from entertainment and information.
By selling Sidewalk, the company sheds an unprofitable division, while keeping components that bolster its inventory of E-commerce offerings. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); NYT (NYSE) (81%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; TICKETMASTER ONLINE-CITYSEARCH INC; USA NETWORKS INC MICROSOFT CORP (96%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (91%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); AOL INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; TICKETMASTER ONLINE-CITYSEARCH INC; USA NETWORKS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES INTERNET & WWW (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); DATING SERVICES (68%); WRITERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



465 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Bank Earnings Increase; Wells Fargo Is Up 29%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Among the financial companies reporting higher second-quarter earnings yesterday, Wells Fargo & Company said its profit jumped 29 percent, and Bank of New York, the world's biggest processor of securities transactions, increased net income 9.5 percent.
The banks are reaping the benefits of the nation's longest-running peacetime economic expansion, with consumer spending the strongest in 11 years. Fees from credit cards and investment banking also helped fuel earnings growth. 
 "The stronger economy is clearly filtering into all of the banks," said Ned Riley, the chief investment officer at BankBoston, who oversees $30 billion. "Keeping costs under control shows the managements are clearly attuned to the marketplace and economy."
Wells Fargo shares fell 43.75 cents, to $42.6875, while Bank of New York rose 43.75 cents, to $38.
Net income at Wells Fargo rose to $931 million, or 55 cents a share, a penny above the consensus forecast of analysts surveyed by the First Call Corporation, from $719 million, or 43 cents, a year earlier. The bank said revenue from its consumer and small-business banking rose 46 percent, to $710 million, as its merger with Minneapolis-based Norwest Corporation started to pay off.
Norwest bought Wells Fargo in November, taking the Wells Fargo name and moving its headquarters to San Francisco. The Norwest Mortgage unit, the nation's largest originator of home mortgage loans and the second-largest mortgage servicer, said earnings rose 29 percent, to $70 million. Mortgage banking revenue rose 7 percent, to $324 million.
"They did a great mortgage business," said Joan Goodman, a bank analyst at the Pershing division of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in Chicago.
Earnings at Norwest Financial, which offers consumer finance and auto finance in 47 states, Canada, the Caribbean and Latin America, rose 22 percent, to $66 million.
Bank of New York's net income rose to $323 million, or 42 cents a share, in line with analysts' forecasts, from $295 million, or 38 cents, a year ago. Fees from securities processing rose 23 percent, to $372 million. The New York-based bank built its fee-based processing and trust businesses over the last five years through more than 30 acquisitions. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BK (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (51%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO; BANK OF NEW YORK WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FIRST CALL CORP (69%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: WELLS FARGO & CO; BANK OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (51%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



466 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye, Cowtown; Denver Enters the World Arena

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DENVER, July 19

 BODY:
Just after World War II, John Gunther wrote in "Inside U.S.A." that "the remarkable thing about Denver is its ineffable closedness," calling it "probably the most self-sufficient, isolated and complacent city in the world."
Half a century later, a modern-day visitor who arrives here clutching Gunther's book as a guide will feel like Rip van Winkle. 
 In January, Japan opened a consulate here. In April, China's Prime Minister, Zhu Rongji, visited. This week, Air Canada inaugurated a daily flight to Winnipeg, its fifth Canadian destination from its mini-hub at Denver's airport.
In September, Mayor Wellington E. Webb plans to play host to African heads of state and government for a meeting here on development and democracy. In the fall, Britain plans to open its first new consulate in the United States in more than 20 years here.
"Denver was the brightest candidate," Sir Christopher Meyer, the British Ambassador to the United States, said from Washington. "We want to tap into a booming American economy, to get into those cities and those regions where economic power and cutting-edge technology have moved significantly ahead in recent years."
Experts say the rapid internationalization of this city, 1,000 miles from the nearest seaport, is perhaps the best example of a larger trend: the increasing integration of the nation's interior into the world economy.
"More and more international travel is taking place from nontraditional ports of entry -- Salt Lake City, Kansas City, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh -- but Denver is probably the one that has seen the most of it," said Thomas Nulty, president of Navigant Travel, a national network of travel agencies based here.
Over the last decade, Mr. Nulty said, his company's international business had increased 40 percent nationwide but almost 200 percent in Denver.
A strong economy and the boom in information technology are rapidly plugging interior cities into the wider world, said Jerry W. Leach, executive director of the World Affairs Councils of America, an association based in Washington with members from 83 American cities.
In Denver, globalization results from several factors, including the metropolitan area's emergence as a high-technology center, a cosmopolitan change in the area's population mix and the new airport, which opened in 1995 and cost $5 billion.
Fueled by these factors, almost 200 foreign companies from 22 nations have invested a total of nearly $500 million in Colorado, employing 30,000 people.
"It's the airport, the fax machine, the E-mail; 25, no 15 years ago, I could not do what I am doing out of Denver," said Gary Hart, who left Washington after his Senate term expired in 1986 to work here as an international lawyer for Coudert Brothers, a law firm based in New York.
Reflecting the growth in foreign ties here, the ranks of international lawyers in Colorado have grown to 200 from virtually none a few years ago.
In the 1990's, Colorado has recorded one of the nation's fastest growth rates in high-technology employment, 43 percent. Forty thousand jobs have been added in such areas as telecommunications, software and information technology. High-technology products account for about 70 percent of Colorado's $5 billion in annual overseas exports.
This new economy has drawn a more cosmopolitan migrant to a state historically populated by transplants. Long viewed as the place where the Midwest meets the mountains, Colorado has seen its migration from the Midwest drop by half since 1980. Today, more than half of Colorado's new residents come from the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts, historically areas with a more outward-looking world view.
The city is also becoming more ethnically diverse. Greater Denver now supports weekly newspapers in Chinese, Korean, Russian and Spanish. Besides dozens of Chinese and Mexican restaurants, Denver has restaurants specializing in the cuisines of Brazil, Ethiopia, Greece, Indonesia, Jamaica, Morocco, Nepal and Thailand.
"Colorado is a state that has an extraordinarily open attitude to integrating different cultures, races and origins," said Carlos Barros Horcasitas, the Mexican Consul here.
More and more, foreigners seeking to understand the United States or to influence policies place Denver on their itineraries. April's visitors included Ghana's President, Jerry J. Rawlings, who addressed a meeting of the National Conference of Black Mayors; Jose Ramos-Horta, the independence advocate for East Timor, and Julien Clerc, the French singer, who started his North American tour here.
Denver is now a stop for about 15 percent of the roughly 4,500 international visitors to whom the United States Information Agency is the host each year.
Most of these visitors come here through connecting flights. But with the start of Korean Airlines direct flights to Seoul, the South Korean capital, in 1997 and British Airways nonstop service to Gatwick Airport outside London in 1998, foreign trade officials say they believe that Denver's airport will gradually become a truly international hub. In addition to the airport's flights to five Canadian cities, it has direct flights to four Mexican beach resorts.
"At Denver's altitude, long-distance jets always had problem taking off fully loaded," said Marc L. Holtzman, Colorado Secretary for International Trade, Technology and Innovation, referring to the city's mile-high altitude. "But with the technology improving, the introduction of the Boeing 777's and the Airbus A-340's definitely favor a city like Denver for European and Asian flights."
From a small base, international passenger traffic through Denver is up 48 percent this year over last year, reaching 270,000 for the first four months of 1999.
As high-technology exports decline in weight and increase in value, air cargo is supplanting the need for an outlet to the sea for foreign trade.
"It used to be that the Dutch, the Portuguese, all these peoples from coastal nations were the traders," Mayor Webb observed. "Well, the air is our ocean. It allows us to move back and forth, east and west, to keep our economy strong. That is our port."
There are downsides to integrating into the world economy. Last year, the state's ski resort officials set an informal goal of selling 10 percent of all ski-lift tickets to foreigners, who spend heavily in mountain restaurants, hotels and shops. But officials had not calculated on the declining Canadian dollar, now trading at 68 American cents. As European skiers chose the Canadian Rockies over the American Rockies, ski ticket sales at Vail plunged by 16.5 percent last winter, while lift ticket sales at Vail's main Canadian rival, Whistler-Blackcomb, jumped by 25 percent.
And city and company officials here struggle to cope with the almost daily flood of foreign visitors.
Jim Reis, president of the World Trade Center Denver, a private company, said: "We told the Danish Consul General, 'Please don't come to Denver at the end of May. We are going to be inundated.' A Chinese delegation just showed up on our doorstep when I asked them not to. We knew we couldn't set up meetings for them."
Similar foreign interest is felt at the Denver World Affairs Council, said Karen de Bartolome, the group's executive director.
"We now could do all our programming simply by responding to people who want to come to Denver," Ms. de Bartolome said of the group's foreign affairs speakers series.
Mayor Webb, who led a delegation of 11 other American mayors on a 10-day trip to Senegal, Ghana and Nigeria in May, easily brushes off any criticism of his efforts to increase Denver's foreign trade and ties. The Mayor, who was overwhelmingly elected to a third term the week before his West Africa trip, said: "There will always be someone who will second-guess the trips, who will say, 'The Mayor doesn't need to be in Africa, the Mayor doesn't need to be in London -- that's a 1940's, myopic point of view.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign leaders are increasingly visiting Denver. Prime Minister Zhu Rongji of China donned a cowboy hat presented by Gov. Bill Owens in April. (Rodolfo Gonzalez/Rocky Mountain News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AIR CANADA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER (COLO); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); COLORADO, USA (94%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS AIRLINES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CITIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (61%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



467 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Citigroup Profit Rises 21% As Nearly All Areas Grow
Citigroup, the nation's largest financial services company, said that its second-quarter profit surged 21 percent, beating Wall Street expectations, as robust consumer spending and the resilient stock market bolstered earnings at several leading banks.
Nearly every area of activity at the Citigroup conglomerate, from underwriting insurance policies at Travelers to advising companies on mergers at Salomon Smith Barney, posted sharply improved results. Cost reductions, especially in the group's consumer division, helped the bottom line. Page C2. 

Microsoft Posts Solid Earnings
With its business surging on several fronts, Microsoft reported that its quarterly profits increased more than 60 percent, exceeding Wall Street's expectations. But the world's leading computer software maker also warned that the growth of its business is likely to slow during the next year. Shares of the company fell $1.0625, to $98.375, before the results were released. They fell to $97.5625 in after-hours trading. C6.
 
Microsoft agreed to sell its Sidewalk series of Internet city guides to Ticketmaster OnlineCitysearch in a deal worth $240 million. C6.
 
A Slight Decline in Stock Gauges
Stock prices retreated modestly after last week's climb despite glowing earnings reports. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 22.16 points, to 11,187.68. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 11.12 points, to 1,407.66, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 34.19 points, to 2,830.29. C12.
 
I.B.M. Profit Beats Expectations
I.B.M. said that its second-quarter profit beat expectations by 3 cents a share, bolstered by sales in its services business and a surge in computer revenue. C8.
 
Internet Not On-Line Pot of Gold
Although many people have founded Internet companies, offered stock and even created fortunes, not everyone is striking gold. For every 10 enterprises that receive financing, venture capitalists say, 2 will be stock market successes. That means a lot of entrepreneurs and employees end up disappointed. A1.
 
Tariffs Imposed on European Food
Reacting to a European Union ban on American beef treated with growth hormones, the United States imposed tariffs intended to double the price of $116.8 million in annual imports as familiar as Dijon mustard from France and as mysterious as the "guts, bladders and stomachs of animals (other than fish), whole and pieces thereof. Pork products make up the biggest category subject to the tariffs. Other foods include Roquefort cheese, truffles, chocolate and lingonberry and raspberry jams. C4.
 
South Korea Aids Daewoo Group
The South Korean Government intervened to prevent affiliates of the sprawling Daewoo Group from falling into bankruptcy and setting off a wave of bankruptcies. At the Government's urging, Daewoo's creditor banks agreed to delay by several months $5.9 billion of short-term loans that were due this week and lent an additional $3.4 billion. C4.
 
$21 Million Harassment Judgment
A jury in Detroit awarded $21 million to a woman who said that she had been sexually harassed at a DaimlerChrysler factory that builds the Jeep Grand Cherokee. The company vowed to appeal the verdict. C23.
 
I.R.S. Plans 'Safety Valve' Rules
The I.R.S. will issue regulations tomorrow allowing people with overdue taxes to keep their stocks, businesses and homes if they can show that they need them to pay for medical care or basic living expenses. C9.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 11.187.68, down 22.16
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.89%, up 0.01
The Dollar -- 117.80 yen, down 3.18
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Balance of Trade
 May figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -$19.2 billion
 
Another graph tracks the share price of Microsoft, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); I R S (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: I R S (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); BEEF (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PORK (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); MEATS (68%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (63%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



468 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Profits Rise at Citigroup and Other Banks in 2d Quarter

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

 BODY:
Citigroup, the nation's largest financial services company, said yesterday that its second-quarter profit surged 21 percent as robust consumer spending and the resilient stock market bolstered earnings at several leading banks.
Nearly every area of activity at the Citigroup conglomerate, from underwriting insurance policies at Travelers to advising companies on mergers at Salomon Smith Barney, posted sharply improved results. Cost reductions, especially in the group's consumer division, helped the bottom line. 
 Excluding a $29 million charge for reorganization, Citigroup earned $2.48 billion, or 71 cents a diluted share, compared with $2.05 billion, or 57 cents a share, in the comparable quarter a year earlier. Analysts had expected Citigroup to earn 65 cents a share, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. Revenue rose 12 percent, to $14.68 billion from $13.06 billion.
Nine of 25 banking analysts surveyed by First Call raised their projected estimates of Citigroup's profits after the quarterly results were released. For the full year, the consensus estimate was raised to $2.77 a share from $2.65.
J. P. Morgan & Company, the fourth-largest bank in the United States in terms of assets, also had a buoyant quarter, with profits rising 25 percent, to just more than $500 million. But the Bank of America Corporation, the nation's largest bank, eked out a modest profit gain of 2 percent.
Rarely have banks enjoyed a more favorable economic environment. Consumer spending has never been higher and is growing at the fastest rate since the last recession, with many of the new purchases being made on bank credit cards. The housing market, and the banks' mortgage business, has remained strong despite rising interest rates. And nearly all the leading banks now derive a chunk of their earnings from stock and bond markets, where underwriting and trading activity continues to grow quickly.
The only downside to the profit picture is wariness about whether banks can continue to expand their profits at a rate of more than 20 percent, a pace that not long ago was associated with the most successful small companies, some analysts said. Tempering those concerns are signs in the latest quarter that banks are streamlining their operations even as their revenue surges, helping to prepare them for an eventual economic slowdown.
"This is as good as it gets for the banking world," said Judah Kraushaar, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "They are working to make it sustainable. It depends on what happens to the economy, but we could see good numbers continue for a time."
One warning sign is that the traditional banking business of taking deposits and making loans has not expanded quickly. Instead, capital markets are lifting earnings at top New York banking conglomerates like Citigroup and J. P. Morgan, which are known as money center banks.
"The sun is shining on them right now," said David Berry, chief of research at Keefe, Bruyette and Woods. "The money center banks are doing very well, but the regular old banks are not growing anywhere near as fast."
Mr. Berry said he expected that the profit growth of 20 percent or more reported by some top banks this quarter would probably give way to a longer-term growth trend of 10 percent to 12 percent.
Since the merger of Citicorp and Travelers Group was finalized last fall, Citigroup has been the largest United States provider of financial services and the second largest in the world, after Deutsche Bank A.G. of Germany. It has become a bellwether for financial companies because it is so diversified, serving both retail and corporate customers, in commercial and investment banking, in all major countries.
Citigroup said the consumer side of its business grew the fastest, with profits rising 40 percent, to $1.11 billion. Reducing expenses helped. The bank said it had cut $1.7 billion from operating costs companywide since the merger and was expecting to surpass its goal of reducing costs by $2 billion this year. On the consumer side, full-time jobs and other positions were cut by 5,500, mostly in North America.
"You have new managers looking at ways to make their businesses more efficient, and you also have prior restructurings coming into play," said Diane Glossman, an analyst at Lehman Brothers.
But the biggest surprise was in the corporate and investment banking operation, which had been subject to considerable turmoil after the merger. The division earned $1.26 billion, a 26 percent gain. The figure includes a 75 percent profit surge as the bank's Salomon Smith Barney subsidiary earned $610 million on the strength of trading and commission revenue.
Benefits from the merger have already helped the bottom line in corporate banking, Citigroup said. It cited 67 banking deals on which it earned fees that were made possible by combining the efforts of the old Travelers Group with the old Citibank corporate banking arm.
Sharp reductions in expenses helped Bank of America post a small gain in profit in the second quarter. It earned $2.06 billion, or $1.15 a diluted share, compared with $2.02 billion, or $1.13 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $16.05 billion from $16.46 billion.
Expenses fell 6.5 percent, to $4.57 billion. The number of employees dropped almost 10 percent, to 162,000. Those reductions were largely the result of combining the operations of the BankAmerica Corporation and the Nationsbank Corporation last year into Bank of America, which is based in Charlotte, N.C. The cost trims helped to offset declines in the combined bank's mortgage servicing and investment banking businesses.
J. P. Morgan's profit was $504 million, or $2.52 a share, compared with $4.02 million, or $1.96 a share, a year earlier. Revenue was $2.19 billion, up slightly from $2.15 billion.
The bank kept expenses steady, while revenue from investment banking grew 26 percent. Morgan turned in an especially strong performance in the highly competitive business of underwriting and trading stocks, analysts said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC; MORGAN, J P, & CO; BANK OF AMERICA CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); FIRST CALL CORP (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC; MORGAN, J P, & CO; BANK OF AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); BONDS (64%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (57%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



469 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Camden Seeks Bankruptcy Protection, Angering State Officials

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, July 19

 BODY:
The city of Camden filed for bankruptcy protection today, a move that state officials denounced as an attempt to divert attention from the city's unwillingness to submit to fiscal reforms.
Camden officials could not be reached for comment late today on the filing in Federal District Court in Camden, which legal experts said was not only unprecedented but possibly illegal under state law. 
 The filing was the latest in a series of defiant actions by officials of the city of 87,000 who over the last decade have repeatedly sought state help in shoring up a sagging tax base and meeting the needs of an increasingly poor population, while blaming regressive state policies for their city's plight.
Officials of the state Division of Community Affairs, which oversees local finances and aid programs for municipalities, said that neither they nor the office of the state Attorney General had been given a copy of the filing.
"We learned about this when newspaper reporters called us asking for comment," said Jane M. Kenny, Commissioner of the Division of Community Affairs. "It seems that they would rather manufacture their own crisis than deal with the process that the state has set up to help."
The bankruptcy move comes as Camden was slated to receive a special aid package intended to close a $12 million budget gap. That aid was approved last month as part of the state budget.
Camden was one of five cities that were to receive the aid under the Distressed Cities Act. That assistance was to be provided on the condition that city officials sign an agreement under which they would submit to detailed audits of city spending and revenues, and commit themselves to implementing state-mandated reforms.
Ms. Kenny said that Camden was the only city of the five that refused late last week to sign the agreement.
In announcing the filing today, Camden's Mayor, Milton Milan, said in a statement reported by The Associated Press: "The State of New Jersey has singled Camden out -- and on behalf of its residents -- we're not going to take it anymore." The Mayor said that money from the Distressed Cities Act "is rightfully due to the City and its residents." Mayor Milan had threatened last week to file for bankruptcy protection if the city did not receive the aid payment.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, reacting to reports of today's action by Camden, said: "The state has an obligation to the citizens of Camden and to taxpayers across the state who are footing the city's bills to insure that tax dollars are being spent as wisely and efficiently as possible. Reaching this goal begins with accountability, a premise that has been roundly rejected by Camden City Hall."
The troubled city, which once boasted a vibrant manufacturing economy from soup to electronics, has been losing jobs and prosperity since the early 1980's. Its per capita income of $7,276 is the fifth lowest in the nation and unemployment is at 14 percent, nearly three times the state average. Adding to the problems of a shrinking tax base and a population increasingly dependent on services are charges of widespread corruption among some city officials
Last year the city, in exchange for some $15 million in state aid to close its budget gap, agreed to the creation of a state-dominated Financial Review Board to which it would submit its spending initiatives for review. But Ms. Kenny said that Camden never lived up to the agreement and review board members often found out about spending and revenue changes from second- and third-hand sources.
The provisions of this year's Distressed Cities Act were more stringent, she said, and intended to "make sure that the aid got them out of their financial problems." Not only did city officials refuse to comply with those provisions, Ms. Kenny said, they informed the state that Camden would need $24 million in additional aid next year while refusing to provide documentation for those projections.
Ms. Kenny said she knew of no other city in New Jersey that had filed for bankruptcy protection. She said that state law called for financially strapped cities to apply to her agency's State Finance Baord for help in meeting their obligations, and made no provisions for filing for bankruptcy protection.
Through the provisions of the Distressed Cities Act, Ms. Kenney said, the state was trying to avoid taking over Camden's daily operations, as it had done in 1981, when the city was on the verge of defaulting on debt payments and other obligations.
William Dressel Jr., the executive director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities, said that there had been concerns among members of the group that the Distressed Cities Act imposed draconian measures on cities amid a decline in state and Federal assistance to urban areas. He said that the group's members were torn between whether the act was "assisting or strangling them," and planned to be vigilant about pointing out what state officials in Trenton were imposing on local voters.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); APPROVALS (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (61%); LAYOFFS (60%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD CAMDEN CITY HALL (96%); JANE M KENNY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



470 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Freshman Senator Bucks His Billing, and the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19

 BODY:
Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, Republican of Illinois, was not supposed to be like this.
He was supposed to be a creature of the far-right fringe of his party, at least according to the opponent he defeated in the Illinois Republican primary last year. He was supposed to be a lock-step soldier in the conservative brigade, at least according to his Democratic adversary in the general election, former Senator Carol Moseley-Braun. 
 And yet, on gun control and new regulations for managed health care, the two most hotly contested, bitterly partisan issues in the Senate so far this year, Mr. Fitzgerald broke party ranks to side with Democrats.
Only one other Republican Senator, John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, did likewise. But while Mr. Chafee had been giving party leaders angina for decades, Mr. Fitzgerald had not been expected to roil Republicans' blood pressure.
Mr. Fitzgerald's votes, especially his dissent late last week on managed care, raised questions about whether he was shaping up to be yet another Republican wild card whose support for the party's position could never be taken for granted.
In an interview in his Capitol Hill office, Mr. Fitzgerald said today that despite the extremist portraits painted by detractors during his campaign, "I'm voting the way I had suggested to the 12 million people of Illinois I would be voting."
"I represent 12 million people in Illinois, and that's a profound responsibility, and I don't intend to abdicate that responsibility by giving my proxy to other people," Mr. Fitzgerald said, referring to party leaders.
That attitude has taken people on all points of the political spectrum by surprise.
"There's been considerable chatter within conservative circles about these votes," said Marshall Wittmann of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative advocacy group.
"There's a general concern that he is, in the vernacular, growing in Washington -- moving to the left," Mr. Wittmann said. "People are wary of the early warning signs."
Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said that he, too, had not anticipated Mr. Fitzgerald's votes.
"He has shown more independence than the overwhelming majority of his Republican colleagues," Mr. Durbin said. "There's more pragmatism there than I thought."
Indeed, Mr. Fitzgerald's deviations from the conservative orthodoxy can be seen in the context of his state, which teeters between the two political parties and prides itself on a centrist streak. The Congressional delegation from Illinois is evenly divided: 10 Republicans and 10 Democrats in the House, one Republican and one Democrat in the Senate.
Gun control has been a particularly popular cause in Illinois over the last five years, and several politicians cast as darlings of the National Rifle Association have paid the price of defeat at the polls.
Although Mr. Fitzgerald voted as a state legislator to allow some Illinois residents to carry concealed weapons, he said that he had always been amenable to reasonable gun control. He said that the Democratic proposal for mandatory background checks at gun shows, which he and five other Senate Republicans supported, was just such a measure.
As for his rejection of the Republican version of a patients' bill of rights, which nonetheless passed the Senate last week, Mr. Fitzgerald said that it lacked a Democratic provision that he favored: a removal of obstacles that prevent patients in health maintenance organizations from suing those insurers for malpractice.
Mr. Fitzgerald said that his position was wholly in line with his conservative views on the benefits of a free market.
"If there were a downside for H.M.O.'s to harm people, maybe they'd be more careful, so I think actually lifting their tort immunity would be a free-market way to improve their behavior," he said.
Mr. Fitzgerald, who was a classics major at Dartmouth College and graduated from law school at the University of Michigan, has an affable demeanor and a tendency to lapse into wonkish commentaries on policy.
At 38, he is the Senate's youngest member, a man who leapfrogged directly from the Illinois Senate to the United States Senate on the power of his intense ambition and his personal wealth, tied to his family's banking fortune. About $12 million of the $15 million he spent on the Senate primary and general election last year came from his own pocket.
Beyond gun control and H.M.O.'s, Mr. Fitzgerald, who is Roman Catholic, married and has a 7-year-old son, is among the Senate's most conservative members. He opposes abortion, making an exception only when pregnancy endangers a woman's life. His distaste for taxes is keen.
But his pet economic peeve is what he described as the flattering, deceptive way in which the Federal Government calculates surpluses, an arithmetic he would banish with his Truth in Budgeting Act.
"That act is encountering bipartisan resistance," he said with a mischievous laugh that suggested his days of ruffling feathers were just beginning.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, in a Washington interview yesterday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (98%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ILLINOIS REPUBLICAN (87%); ILLINOIS SENATE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ILLINOIS SENATE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (98%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GUN CONTROL CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FIREARMS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; FITZGERALD, PETER G (SEN) RICHARD DURBIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



471 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: 2 Leaders: To Speed the Peace Effort

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a transcript of a news conference yesterday in the Old Executive Office Building by President Clinton and Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, as recorded by The New York Times.
 
PRESIDENT CLINTON -- Prime Minister Barak and I have had a very good series of meetings over the past few days. Of course we have focused primarily on the Middle East peace process. We strongly agree that a negotiated peace is the best way to make Israel more secure, the best path to lasting stability and prosperity for all the peoples of the Middle East.
The Prime Minister is determined to accelerate that process, to reach, with Chairman Arafat, a permanent-status agreement between Israel and the Palestinian people and to achieve a broader regional peace that includes Syria and Lebanon. As he has said, the objective now is to put the peace process back on all its tracks. 
 But we should have no illusions. The way ahead will be difficult. There are hard decisions to be made. Knowing his long record of accomplishment, both as soldier and civilian, and having spent a good deal of time with him these past few days, I believe the Prime Minister is ready to move forward decisively. And America is clearly ready to help in any way we can. As Israel takes calculated risks for peace, we will continue to support Israel's defense. Today we have agreed to strengthen our security assistance to Israel, so Israel can best meet the threats to its citizens, including terrorism and the growing threat of long-range missiles and weapons of mass destruction. We have also agreed to establish a high-level joint planning group to consult on security issues and to report back regularly. . . .
To enhance our scientific cooperation, we will create a working group between NASA and the Israel Space Agency to advance scientific research, educational activities and the peaceful uses of space. And an Israeli astronaut and a payload of Israeli instruments will fly on a space shuttle mission next year. . . .
 
PRIME MINISTER BARAK -- President Clinton and I have just concluded the last in our series of meetings. Those meetings were held in an atmosphere of deep friendship and understanding that characterizes the bilateral relationship between Israel and the United States. Our policy is based on the following.
We are committed to the renewal of the peace process. It is our intention to move the process forward simultaneously on all tracks: bilateral, the Palestinian, the Syrians and the Lebanese, as well as the multilateral. We will leave no stone unturned in our efforts to reinvigorate the process, which must be based upon direct talks between the parties themselves and conducted in an atmosphere of mutual trust. Any unilateral steps, acts or threats of terrorism, violence or other forms of aggression have no place in the process of peace. The peace we seek to establish is only the one that will enhance the security of Israel. Only a strong and secure Israel is capable of making the difficult choices that the process requires. I will not shy away from those difficult choices but I have responsibility to the people of Israel to do all that I possibly can to minimize the risks and dangers involved. . . .
 
Q. Mr. President, the Prime Minister has committed himself to implementing the West Bank pullback agreed on at Wye River. You just talked about accelerating the peace process. Realistically speaking, looking ahead, how long before the final-status talks get under way on the tough issues like Jerusalem, the Palestinian hopes for a homeland, refugees and what specific steps can the United States do to facilitate this process?
 
CLINTON . . . We should support the security of Israel, the stability of the region, the economic development of the region, and we should help to work out any of the particular problems as they arise. In terms of the timing, I don't think it's for the United States to set the timetables here. . . .
 
BARAK . . . I would suggest a kind of framework of about 15 months within which we will know whether we have a breakthrough and are really going to put an end to the conflict, or, alternatively, I hope this will not be the case, we are stuck once again.
I use the kind of framework of 15 months to signal to all publics and us, the players, that we are not talking about a magic solution that will drop upon us from heaven in three weeks. And we do not intend to drag our foot for another three years. . . .
 
Q. What is your reaction to the meeting of Syrian Vice President Abdel-Halim Khaddam in Damascus with the few Palestinian organizations that are opposing the peace process? Do you think that it's a significant step for peace?
 
BARAK . . . I did not get a real report about this meeting but if there was such a meeting and the Syrians really asked the terror organizations to reduce the level of activity, it is, of course, good news for all of us. . . .
 
Q. You've said that when Mrs. Clinton expresses her opinions publicly she's just doing something in public which you've done in private before, that is have disagreements. That's the American way. But when she talks about an opinion in which she takes the Israeli position on Jerusalem, doesn't this make it more difficult for you to be that honest broker?
 
CLINTON -- No, no. For one thing, let me say, that issue is not one. That's not the public-private distinction. The Government of the United States, the Executive Branch, the President, is a sponsor of the peace process and a facilitator of it. In that context, those of us with positions of official responsibility who are all the time asking Israel and the Palestinians were all the time asking both sides not to do anything which prejudices final-status issues. I have taken the position that my Government should not prejudice final-status issues. There are many American citizens who consider, for example, Jerusalem to be the capital of Israel. . . .
 
Q. Do you see, Mr. President, and you, Prime Minister Barak, a Palestinian state at the end of this period of time?
 
BARAK -- I think it's too early to think of the results of the negotiations about permanent status that were hardly begun. And I don't think that you should interpret this 15-month framework as a kind of a deadline where everything should be either fully concluded and implemented or the whole thing is blown apart. . . . 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); LEBANON (92%); SYRIA (92%); JORDAN (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY SPACE AGENCY INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; JORDAN; ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); LEBANON (92%); SYRIA (92%); JORDAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS PEACE PROCESS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPACECRAFT (85%); SPACE EXPLORATION (85%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); TERRORISM (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (63%); SPACE INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN) EHUD BARAK (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



472 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON TO PRESS SYRIAN TO REOPEN TALKS WITH ISRAEL

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19

 BODY:
President Clinton pledged today that he would get in touch with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria to emphasize that a "golden opportunity" lay before him to complete a peace deal with Israel. Mr. Clinton spoke as he and Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel ended a series of meetings.
From their joint announcement at a news conference of plans to increase military assistance to Israel, to a plan to include Israeli astronauts on a NASA shuttle journey next year, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Barak appeared eager to show that the nations' relationship had been reinvigorated. Excerpts, page A8. 
 The two leaders also announced that Washington would provide financing for Israel's acquisition of additional Arrow antimissile systems, which could defend Israel against Iran or Iraq.
This is one of several measures planned for years but delayed during the tenure of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The Arrow system was delayed for American budget reasons, other measures because of deterioration in relations over the lack of progress in peace talks.
Mr. Clinton said he would ask Congress to speed approval of economic assistance to Israel, the Palestinian Authority and Jordan that had been promised last fall on condition that the land-for-security deal completed at Wye, Md., moved ahead. That money was caught in the stalemate in carrying out the Wye agreement.
Mr. Clinton probably will contact President Assad by telephone in the coming days, a senior Administration official said. By reaching out to Mr. Assad, Mr. Clinton will be taking the first step in the process that Mr. Barak has said he hopes will result in a basis for a comprehensive Middle East settlement within 15 months.
Referring to his contacts over the years with Mr. Assad, Mr. Clinton said, "He knows very well that I am committed to the peace process between Israel and Syria and that I believe that he has a golden opportunity now." Mr. Clinton also said the United States "would like more normal relations with Syria." Syria is one of the last Arab states officially at war with Israel.
But the officials also said Mr. Clinton hopes to reduce the role of intermediary that the United States has played. There has been no direct contact between Israel and Syria. "If we proceed that way, nothing will get done in 15 months," a senior Administration official said. "We hope to see more direct contact."
In his meetings with Mr. Clinton, Mr. Barak said Israel would never agree to return to the borders that existed before the 1967 war, an Israeli official reported last week. But he added that Israel is willing to pull back partly from the Golan Heights, on the border with Syria, if the two countries can agree on other issues, like the status of Lebanon and ending terrorism.
Syria remains on the State Department's list of nations that it says support terrorism. But a report from the Middle East today said that Syria had called on guerrillas that it supports in Lebanon to "call off the armed struggle."
An official in Mr. Barak's delegation said the report could be an encouraging sign about the purposefulness of Mr. Assad's recent statements that he wanted to resume talks with Israel. But some guerrilla groups denied the report.
In announcing increased military assistance, which needs Congressional approval, the Administration was also outlining a plan under discussion for some time to restructure aid to Israel. Under a new formula, the United States would phase out economic assistance, now $1.2 billion a year, while increasing military aid. Israel now receives $1.8 billion a year in military assistance; over the next 10 years, this would be increased to $2.4 billion a year.
The aid package pledged to the participants in the Wye process includes $1.2 billion over three years to Israel, $400 million to the Palestinian Authority and $300 million to Jordan, which has already received one installment.
In another indication of their new confidence, the two leaders announced a strategic policy group composed of senior American and Israeli security officials that would report to them every four months.
Such a group was proposed at Wye but, Administration officials said, it lacked the authority to make meaningful recommendations or decisions on Israel's security needs. Under the new formula, the officials would consider ways to enhance Israel's security in the context of a comprehensive peace settlement.
In their communique, the two leaders said they would sign an accord allowing for "broad cooperation" between various agencies of both Governments on responding to the threat of weapons of mass destruction.
On the sensitive issue of Jonathan Jay Pollard, a former United States Navy intelligence analyst who is serving a life sentence for spying for Israel, Mr. Barak declined to comment, beyond saying he would like to see him released.
Mr. Pollard was arrested in 1985, pleaded guilty and was given a life sentence in 1987. Mr. Clinton has twice denied clemency to Mr. Pollard. But on the last day of the talks at Wye last year, Mr. Clinton pledged to Mr. Netanyahu that he would review the case after Mr. Netanyahu made it an issue and the director of Central Intelligence, George J. Tenet, threatened to resign if he were released, senior American officials said at the time. Mr. Clinton asked Charles F. C. Ruff, the White House Counsel, to compile a report on whether Mr. Pollard should be released.
After the news conference the national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said Mr. Barak, like all other Israeli Prime Ministers, had raised the issue. Mr. Berger said Mr. Clinton had not yet received the report from Mr. Ruff.
According to Mr. Berger's account, the Prime Minister said the Pollard case should not be part of the peace talks. At Wye, Mr. Netanyahu had threatened to walk out unless Mr. Pollard was released.
By accounts from American and Israeli officials, Mr. Barak and Mr. Clinton, who did not know each other well, developed a good rapport during two lengthy one-on-one sessions and then over meals and at other meetings.
But both leaders were short on details on what the unfolding peace efforts might look like. Mr. Barak said it was "too early" to talk about the results of what are termed permanent-status talks on such difficult questions as borders, refugees and the disposition of Jerusalem.
Still, Mr. Barak told the Administration that he would move forward with the Wye agreement and today in Israel, the Israeli Defense Forces began relocating its Jenin headquarters in anticipation of the next withdrawal from the West Bank.
Asked whether he saw a Palestinian state emerging by the end of the year, Mr. Barak said, "I am confident that the nature of the Palestinian entity will emerge quite naturally out of these permanent-status negotiations."
Mr. Barak had his last scheduled meeting with Mr. Clinton at the White House this afternoon. Earlier the Prime Minister met with officials of the American Israel Political Action Committee, which lobbies on behalf of Israeli issues, and this evening met with Mr. Tenet and attended a dinner at the home of the Israeli Ambassador, Zalman Shoval.
On Tuesday, his last day in the United States, Mr. Barak is to hold meetings on Capitol Hill and attend a lunch with Vice President Al Gore in his residence.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Syrian Approach to Militants
 JERUSALEM, July 19 (Reuters) -- Syria has asked militant Palestinian groups based in Damascus to end their armed struggle against Israel because it intends to make peace with the Jewish state, members of the groups said today.
Vice President Abdel Halim Khaddam met with members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, the Saqa group and the Fatah Uprising, which is led by Col. Abu Musa, a Syrian official said. Mr. Khaddam held separate talks with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
 Other leading groups, including Hamas and the Islamic Holy War, were not involved in the meetings.
A spokesman for a Palestinian alliance in Damascus denied the report, and Hezbollah, the Party of God, dismissed it as "talk that does not merit a response."
 The Damascus-based groups oppose the peace accords with Israel signed by Yasir Arafat and the Palestine Liberation Organization.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At their news conference yesterday, Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and President Clinton said relations are improving rapidly. Mr. Clinton made several offers of aid to Israel, the Palestinians and Jordan. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JORDAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: ;PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY

ORGANIZATION: ;PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; JORDAN; ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JORDAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PALESTINIANS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); TRENDS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TERRORISM (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); EHUD BARAK (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



473 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
Clinton to Press Syria To Reopen Talks With Israel
President Clinton pledged that he would contact the President of Syria at the end of his meetings with Prime Minister Ehud Barak to stress that a "golden opportunity" lay before Syria to complete a peace deal with Israel. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Barak also announced increased American military assistance to Israel, appearing eager to show that the United States-Israel relationship had been reinvigorated. A1
 
Two Americans Die in Kosovo
Two American soldiers were killed and three suffered minor injuries on Sunday when their armored personnel carrier overturned, a spokesman for the NATO-led security force said. The soldiers were the first Americans in the force to die in Kosovo. A9 

Clinton to Visit Sarajevo
President Clinton will travel to Sarajevo on July 30 to take part in an international meeting intended to bolster democracy and economic changes in former parts of Yugoslavia and neighboring states, the White House said. More than 30 countries will be represented at the meeting, and the heads of all countries in the Balkans -- with the exception of President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia -- have been invited, the White House said. (Reuters)
 
Dubious Bailout in Mexico
A Canadian auditor, presenting a report about the Government's rescue of Mexico's banks, concluded that about $7.7 billion of the loans absorbed by the bailout were highly irregular or plainly illegal. A3
 
Scandal Plaguing South Korea
The Government of President Kim Dae Jung is embroiled in a string of corruption scandals that have sent his popularity plummeting and his Administration scrambling. Some analysts say that if the Kim Government does not clean up its act, the scandals may cost the President's party vital seats in Parliament next year. A7
 
Indonesian Nod to Timor
Indonesia is preparing to relinquish control of East Timor after 23 years of occupation, and it believes that advocates of independence are very likely to win a referendum next month, says a supposedly authentic internal Government report that has been made available to reporters by advocates of independence. A6
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A10-13
 
California Enacts Tough Gun Measures
Gov. Gray Davis of California signed legislation essentially banning the manufacture, import or sale of any semiautomatic rifles or pistols that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition or have accessories like pistol grips and folding stocks. Ammunition clips that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition are also outlawed and individuals are not allowed to buy more than one handgun in a month. A1
 
A Steep Descent Before Crash
At the end of its ill-fated flight, John F. Kennedy Jr.'s airplane was descending at about 4,700 feet per minute, far in excess of the 400- to 500-foot-per-minute descents that are customary in single-engine private airplanes, according to radar data disclosed by the National Transportation Safety Board. Divers searching the waters off Martha's Vineyard were unsuccessful in their efforts to locate wreckage and the remains of the plane's three occupants. Senator Edward M. Kennedy solemnly acknowledged that Mr. Kennedy, his wife, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, and her sister, Lauren Bessette, were probably dead. A1
 
Mr. Kennedy had been discussing the financing and future of his political magazine, George, with Goldman Sachs, the investment bank. A12
 
Mr. Kennedy was sought out as a possible Democratic candidate for the New York Senate seat, but declined to run, according to Senator Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey, the chairman of the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee. A12
 
Silicon Valley for Life Sciences
Gov. John Engler signed legislation earmarking $50 million a year to promote research in a "life sciences corridor" across a southern swath of Michigan. The Governor said he expected the move would lead biotechnology companies to relocate or start up in Michigan. The money -- about $1 billion over 20 years -- will come from Michigan's $300-million-a-year share of the states' tobacco settlement. A10
 
New No. 2 at Treasury
Stuart Eizenstat, 56, formerly undersecretary for economic affairs at the State Department, was sworn in as Deputy Treasury Secretary by Secretary Lawrence Summers, the man he succeeds. (Reuters)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Albany Goes to Work On Details of Budget Deal
The Legislature convened its second-ever budget conference committee, following last week's agreement among the Governor and legislative leaders. Tuition assistance for low-income college students, which Governor Pataki had proposed cutting by $132 million, was expected to be restored. Major budget areas still unresolved involve capital projects and tax cuts. B1
 
Police Candidate Was Criticized
One of the candidates to head the New Jersey State Police is Carson Dunbar, a Federal agent who was widely criticized for ending the surveillance of a group of terrorists several months before they succeeded in bombing the World Trade Center. B1
 
Patient-Satisfaction Survey
Patients largely expressed good feelings about city hospitals, though they said doctors and nurses were too rushed and not very nice. B1
 
Release Is Sought
Ronald K. Crumpley, who killed two people and wounded six others outside a Greenwich Village gay bar in 1980, asked to be released from a maximum security hospital. B3
 
Angry Staff Members Quit
Virtually all of the aides to Representative Michael P. Forbes of Long Island resigned en masse in protest of their boss's decision on Saturday to quit the Republican Party and become a Democrat. B7
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Newly Found Hepatitis Virus
Italian researchers say they may have found the source of hepatitis cases that are not caused by any of the liver disease's main known viral agents, hepatitis A through E. F1
 
Not Quite Extinct, After All
The Javan rhinoceros of Vietnam, a species long thought extinct, has been found clinging to existence in extremely small numbers. F5
 
Health & Fitness F6
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Cyclist Dropped From Tour
Ludo Dierckxsens, a Belgian rider who won a stage of the Tour de France on Thursday, was dismissed by his team after telling a race doctor that he had used a cortisone substance on an injured knee. D5
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
New Chief for Computer Maker
Hewlett-Packard said Carleton (Carly) S. Fiorina, the 44-year-old president of Lucent Technologies' global service provider business, would become president and chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, the second-largest computer maker in the world. C1
 
Former Executives Indicted
Three former executives of the Bankers Trust Corporation were indicted on Federal charges accusing them of diverting $15.5 million of unclaimed customer money into the bank's own accounts to lift their department's financial results. C1
 
Robust Earnings Reports
Citigroup said second-quarter profits surged 21 percent. C2
 
I.B.M.'s second-quarter profit beat expectations. C7
 
Microsoft's quarterly profits rose more than 60 percent, though it warned growth would slow. C6
 
Stocks Reverse Course
The Dow closed down 22.16 points, at 11,187.68; the S.& P. 500 lost 11.13, to 1,407.65, and the Nasdaq fell 34.19, or 1.2 percent, to 2,830.29. C11
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS E1-8
 
FASHION B10
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: A faster track to Mideast peace; politics and public TV don't mix; the art of not choking; gains and losses on H.I.V.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E4
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (94%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CANADA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (94%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CANADA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); SCANDALS (86%); FIREARMS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); LEGISLATION (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); GUN CONTROL (67%); CORRUPTION (64%); IMPORT CONTROLS (60%); REFERENDUMS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); EHUD BARAK (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



474 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: 'One China' Policy Ignores Reality

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re your July 17 front-page article on the Chinese Government's settlement and development program in the Xinjiang region: While it is true that some Uighurs have resorted to violence in order to resist Chinese colonization, thousands of Uighur political prisoners have been persecuted for peaceful protest. 
 Amnesty International released a report in April documenting human rights violations committed by the Chinese Government in the region, mainly against Uighurs. The violations included arbitrary and summary executions, systematic torture of political prisoners, arbitrary detention and unfair political trials.
While you suggest that Uighurs have benefited from development of the region, it appears that the main beneficiaries have been Han Chinese. According to the Amnesty report, unemployment is high among Uighurs because of the preferential treatment given to Han Chinese.
 
KATHY POLIAS
Washington, July 18, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Shui-Bo Wang)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); XINJIANG, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (58%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (58%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; XINJIANG PROVINCE (CHINA); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); XINJIANG, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TORTURE (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: POLIAS, KATHY

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999



475 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 2; Column 2; Vacation

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: There's Still Hope for Last-Minute Planners

BYLINE: By PAUL GRIMES; Paul Grimes writes the syndicated column "The Online Traveler."

 BODY:
UNEXPECTEDLY, you find that you can get away for a week or so in late summer or in early fall. But so late in the season, where can you go and what's the best way to get there? Where can you find transportation and rooms at reasonable prices and places that haven't nearly shut down because of foul weather or because they're not popular at that time of year?
Ask a travel agent? That can be fruitful if you know one who is familiar with your tastes and is an expert on the places and activities that interest you. 
 For example, if you're a wealthy outdoors-oriented client of Ray Kane, who runs Pisa Brothers Travel Service in New York, he might send you skiing in Chile or fishing in a remote Alaskan bay. For a cost-conscious couple who are Francophiles, he suggests Paris in September, when there are wonderful values in air-hotel packages.
Kay Brylawski of Flora Tours in Jenkintown, Pa., suggests that beach enthusiasts visit Aruba, which generally escapes the hurricane season that plagues other Caribbean isles. For fall foliage, she says popular tours often have late cancellations and smaller bus companies, operating from larger cities and selling through travel agents, often have last-minute room.
In the West, Myrna Ross of World Travel Partners in Phoenix lists Hawaii, Disneyland (near Los Angeles) and Catalina Island off the Southern California coast among her choices. "You can fly from Phoenix to Los Angeles right now for $88 round trip," she said. "There's always somebody at Disneyland in September, although it's less crowded than in summer. And Catalina is very relaxing, with a broad range of hotels but no cars and no crime."
These days, more vacationers are turning to cyberspace to do their own research if not complete travel planning. A good starting point on the Internet is the Great Outdoor Vacation Pages (www.gorp.com), where you can search by activity (camping, fishing), location (by state or country) or type of attraction (scenic drive, forest, beach, archeological site). Gorp will help plan a solo vacation as well as a group activity.
The Internet abounds in sites that sell vacation packages. They brim with so-called hot deals, some enticing. Be aware, though, that these are probably distress merchandise -- tours that have failed to sell. Typically, such sites embrace only tour companies that pay to be listed.
One that does better is the Online Vacation Mall (www.onlinevacationmall.com), which features packages from 13 major mass-market tour companies. Another exception is Vacation Packager (www.
vacpac.com). It is run by the Official Tour Directory, the travel industry's most comprehensive listing of tour companies, covering more than 800 destinations and 300 vacation interests and activities. The site has links to state tourist offices and lists of toll-free telephone numbers of airlines, hotel chains, auto-rental companies and the like.
Particularly useful for last-minute choices is TravelHUB (www.travelhub.com), a consolidated site for the package offerings of several hundred specialized travel agencies. An extensive directory of companies specializing in cruises can be found at dir.yahoo.com/Business-and-Economy/Companies/Travel/Cruises.
For the Caribbean, late summer and fall are bargain times. Yes, it is hurricane season, but, Liane Beck of The Travel Company's Miami office noted: "The captain doesn't want to go through a hurricane any more than you do, and he's going to use his sophisticated navigational equipment to circumvent it." There are also late-summer deals for Alaska, she said.
Sometimes, age can be a factor in planning a trip, at either end of the spectrum. Family Travel Times, a 15-year-old bimonthly newsletter devoted to travel with children, is developing www.familytraveltimes.com. The accent is on air-land packages, cruises and hotel specials. The catch: the best material is available only to newsletter subscribers for $39 a year.
Probably the broadest selection of learning vacations for older travelers is from Elderhostel, the Boston-based nonprofit organization with one- and two-week residential study programs around the world. Many programs fill up quickly months ahead, but others always have vacancies. The problem for last-minute decision-makers is to find out which ones.
One way is to call Elderhostel toll-free at (877) 426-8056. If you are specific -- asking, for example, about hiking in Montana or arts and crafts in West Virginia -- you should find vacancies. Obtain suggestions from the Web site, www.elderhostel.org, where you can do your booking.
Once you have decided where you want to go, the next issue is getting there. If you are traveling by air, your search for the lowest fare can be trying. Many Web sites profess to help, sharing a small selection of data bases. But few can provide senior fares or accommodate the discount and companion-flies-free coupons that stuff your mail. Sometimes prices differ among sites, because one includes taxes in its fare quotations and another does not.
Among the Web sites that can help is www.smarterliving.com, which will scan the Internet for the weekly specials of 20 airlines and E-mail you free-of-charge about those originating in the cities of your choice. It also scans for Internet-only specials of car-rental companies and hotels.
The new Farebeater feature at the discount site www.1travel.com promises to find the lowest fare on the days and routes you plan to fly. This can be useful for bookings too late to meet advance-purchase requirements for most discounts.
For rental cars, the smartest advice for do-it-yourselfers is to phone your travel agent or the car company. Then you can compare, with a real person, the many discounts, free days and upgrades for which you may be eligible through club memberships or coupons.
In popular areas at peak season, last-minute rooms can be hard to find. It is often easiest to look at weekend or weeklong packages that offer rooms alone, rooms plus meals or rooms, meals and transportation from and to home. If your destination is a large city in North America or Europe, a hotel consolidator, a company that contracts for large blocks of hotel rooms, can probably assist. It may not offer discounts at tight times, but it will have rooms at hotels that are otherwise sold out.
You could try the Hotel Reservations Network (www.hoteldiscounts.com or, by phone, 800-715-7666); Quikbook (www.quikbook.com or 800-789-9887) or Travelscape.com (www.travelscape.com or 888-335-0101). When asked about availability in New York for three days, Hotel Reservations Network produced 51 choices in Manhattan and five in the suburbs, from the modest to the Waldorf-Astoria.
For smaller cities or regions, the local convention and visitors' bureau or chamber of commerce may be able to direct you to accommodations at popular times. You'll find listings and contact at dir.yahoo.com/Recreation/Travel/Convention-and-Visitors-Bureaus. Or you can, of course, try a hotel Web site, a toll-free phone number or a travel agency in person, by phone or on line. It may take digging and time, however, to find the best deal for when you want to go.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: If you're looking for winter in summer, there's skiing in the Chilean resort of Portillo. (Randy O'Rourke/The Stock Market); Convenient for Westerners on holiday, Catalina Island, off the coast of Southern California, has a broad range of hotels and no cars. (Michele Burgess/The Stock Market)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHILE (92%); ARUBA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRAVEL PARTNERS-DALLAS ASSOCIATES L P (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHILE (92%); ARUBA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRAVEL AGENTS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); WEATHER (71%); SKIING (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (62%); HISTORIC SITES (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (51%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



476 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 5; Column 5; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: From California, Toasty, Mellow Nut Oils

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT 

 BODY:
EUROPEANS, especially the French, have always had a monopoly on good nut oils, which are a luxury in vinaigrettes and a fragrant substitute for butter on grilled fish. But now, a two-year-old company in California is making what are probably the best toasted nut oils on the market.
In Yountville, a town once better known for its groves of walnut trees than its vineyards, John Baritelle is producing five nut oils under the California Press label: walnut, pecan, almond, hazelnut and pistachio, each capturing the essence of the nut. They can add a flavorful finish to soup, salad or risotto or can even be drizzled on cheese. 
 Mr. Baritelle, a former professor of economics at the University of California at Riverside, is recapturing a childhood taste. "I grew up in Walnut Creek," he said, referring to a town near San Francisco. "We always had walnut oil and almond oil that one of our neighbors made. That led to a quest." In search of an intensely delicious walnut oil, he started in France three years ago and wound up importing walnut oil in ceramic jugs. The brand name was the French Press. "Then I asked my wife why we couldn't do it here," he said.
Mr. Baritelle bought an old sesame oil press and experimented with different kinds of walnuts at various levels of toasting. Once he was satisfied with the results, he changed his company's name and hired Chuck Schutte, an engineer, and his wife, Gayle, to run it.
Oils are easily pressed out of nuts, but their flavor blossoms only when the nuts are toasted first. Mr. Baritelle toasts his in what looks like a small coffee roaster. Then they are pressed in 15-pound batches. He grows some of his own walnuts and buys the almonds and pistachios from a California grower. The pecans are from Arizona, and the hazelnuts from Oregon.
The main difference between Mr. Baritelle's oils and most of the competition is that he uses whole nuts or halves, not the broken bits usually accepted by nut oil producers. The result is nuttier, deeper and more mellow oil, with no hint of rancidity or other off flavors. (They still should be stored in the refrigerator to keep them fresh.)
And there is a bonus. Because the California Press uses high-quality nuts, the cakelike residue from the pressing can then be ground and sifted and used as nut flour in baking and cooking. Mr. Baritelle is selling that, too, by mail for $17 a pound.
 California Press nut oils cost $15 to $18 for 8.4 ounces at markets including Dean & DeLuca, 560 Broadway (Prince Street), and Balducci's, 424 Avenue of the Americas (Ninth Street). They are also available by mail, (800) 736-6602. Shipping is extra.
 
FRISEE WITH MANCHEGO AND WALNUT OIL
Adapted from EQ
Time: 20 minutes
 
4 heads frisee, dark green leaves removed, torn in bite-size bits
 1/4 pound cremini mushrooms, very thinly sliced
1 tablespoon chopped shallot
1 tablespoon chopped chives
 1/4 pound manchego cheese, shaved thin
4 tablespoons rice vinegar
6 tablespoons walnut oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper.
 1. Toss frisee, mushrooms, shallot, chives and half the manchego in a salad bowl. Drizzle vinegar and oil into bowl along one side. Gently combine. Season with salt and pepper.
2. Divide among four plates and top with remaining manchego.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO BITS, NO PIECES -- California Press uses whole toasted nuts in its nut oils, top. (Terrence McCarthy; Tony Cenicola for The New York Times (top)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA PRESS CALIFORNIA PRESS (65%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PRESS UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OILS AND FATS OILS & FATS (91%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (89%); CHEESE (78%); COFFEE (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE; BARITELLE, JOHN JOHN BARITELLE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



477 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1978 words

HEADLINE: A New Variety Of Flower Child In Full Bloom;
Music and the Internet Nourish a Counterculture

BYLINE: By ANN POWERS 

 BODY:
"I don't know what a hippie was," said Benjy Eisen as he stood near a sink filled with dishes in a Winnebago parked at the PNC Bank Arts Center in Holmdel, N.J., on Thursday. "I'm a kid of the 90's. In our generation we don't have Vietnam stories, we have Lollapalooza tales. Our war stories are about the car breaking down on the way to a show."
Mr. Eisen and 10 friends, none older than 26, had rented the camper to follow the band Phish on its six-week summer tour, stopping in Holmdel that evening and the next. Most of the friends were from New York or Pennsylvania, although one had come all the way from Bakersfield, Calif. They had driven hundreds of miles to see shows from Kansas to Georgia, sleeping alongside one another on increasingly dingy foam beds, selling fruit smoothies to earn spending money, taking time off to play music in state parks, and meeting other travelers at every turn. 
 "There's kids in these parking lots who have seen more of the country than their parents or their grandparents," said Kevin Schoenecker, who is from Rochester. "Some people find religion in it, and other people find just a good time and a new city every night."
Such counterculture scenes are springing up like weedy flower beds all over the country, and not just in the wake of Phish.
The "jam band" community is a major underground force in pop, with thousands of fans meeting over the Internet, teaming up to tour with Phish or other bands like Moe and the Disco Biscuits, disseminating hundreds of bootleg tapes and supporting myriad local scenes.
"Seems like every city in America has at least one band to represent," said Chris Zahn, who books the Wetlands Preserve, Manhattan's premier jam-band club, when asked later about the phenomenon. Phish shows can attract up to 70,000. Festivals staged by smaller bands draw thousands.
This outpouring seems similar to the one being commemorated at this weekend's 30th-anniversary celebration of the Woodstock festival in Rome, N.Y. Many of its adherents appear to have stepped from photographs of that historic event, in their calico clothes and tangled hair, with their stashes of glass pipes for smoking marijuana and their fondness for group hugs. But they insist they're not trying to get back to the garden.
"The term hippie is such a convoluted stereotype," said Matthew Rudnicki, a 20-year-old student at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. "It's an explosive cliche. You jump on tour, and you think there will be people massaging you and feeding you, and it's this bubble of love, and things are a lot grittier than that."
 
Old Trappings, New Groove
In the parking lot on Thursday the mood of celebration was underpinned by one of practicality. A "green crew" of volunteers organized by Phish employees met to discuss how to clean the lot and recycle cans and bottles after the show. A women's group called the "Phunky Bitches," which formed through an Internet mailing list, distributed bags containing condoms, tampons, antacids, sanitizing gel and other necessities, and made themselves available to answer the needs of female fans.
"It's used as a safe haven for women if they go on tour," said 24-year-old Randy Schwartz. "They know they can come to us for supplies or a safe ride to the next show. We felt like women were a minority on tour, and that it was a male-dominated scene."
These inheritors of counterculture chic strongly resist romanticizing their life style. They don't want to be social dropouts; most refer to the Phish tour as merely a vacation.
"I work hard, three jobs," said Brad Kluttz, 22, from Atlanta, who was about to drop off the tour because he was fighting a bronchial infection. "This is fun for me, and I love it. They put on a great show for me every night." He added, "but I've got responsibilities at home."
There are divisions in this subculture between the young professionals who take time off to join the tour for a while and fans who scramble to survive.
"Kids with coolers full of beer, they have the money," said Matt Iarrobino, 24, a television cameraman by day and the lighting director at the Wetlands by night. "And there are kids who sell grilled cheeses after the show just to get to the next one." These differences aren't discussed, Mr. Iarrobino said. "When you're at a Phish show, everyone is equal."
Even as they revel in the Phish tour's open and loving atmosphere, these enthusiasts know that its security is not guaranteed and its pleasures are ephemeral. But they take its lessons with them after the tour ends.
"This microcosm -- the lot economy, the relationships here, the social dynamics, the travel dynamics, everything -- carries over into a real-world application," said John Frattalone, 19, a Long Island native and another of the Winnebago renters. "You see businessmen who were involved with the Grateful Dead scene who have completely different ways of approaching business, where no one gets hurt. That's what I want to carry out for myself."
With their natural-fiber clothing, vegetarian diets and predilection for trippy music, the members of the jam-bands scene seem to be carrying on the legacy of their hippie forebears.
But they are not dreaming of a new Woodstock nation. They belong to one subculture among many thriving today, and as the saying goes, they may think globally, but they act locally.
They learned their methods from the Grateful Dead, a band that embodied the hippie stereotype. The ritual of the road trip originated with Deadheads, the group's patchouli-wearing camp followers.
The custom of trading tapes and communicating over the Internet, vital to sustaining a scene that thrives largely without the help of the mainstream music industry, also originated with them. And the band pioneered the diverse, improvisational approach to rock that keeps fans so deeply engaged.
Yet observers agree that not until the Grateful Dead disbanded after the death in 1995 of its leader, Jerry Garcia, did the jam-band scene solidify. "People started to look to the clubs, where you could have that immediacy with the bands and with one another," said Dean Budnick, author of the book "Jam Bands" (ECW Press) and editor of the Web site www.jambands.com. The older people didn't care, and all of a sudden these young people saw themselves."
Members of popular bands like Moe, the Slip, Galactic and the Disco Biscuits are in their 20's. "You've got a generation of parents listening to their Woodstock CD's, and kids are like, yuck," said Mr. Zahn of the Wetlands. "The kids are looking to groove to great music, indulge in drinking and partying. That hasn't changed. But the fashions have changed. Kids are realizing that rave and hip-hop fashion and music is way cooler than this tired, boring classic rock."
At the same time some find the source of their rebellion in reviving the values of the counterculture. "Kids wanting to be more like hippies is definitely counterculture now," said Chuck Garvey, a guitarist in Moe. "After hard-core yuppiedom, kids think this is the alternative."
 
Road Trips And Street Politics
Some taking this road make the step into street politics. Larry Bloch opened the Wetlands in 1989 as a center for activism as well as a nightclub. He sold the club in 1997, but its Environmental and Social Justice Center is still open, now coordinated by Adam Weissman, 21.
Every Tuesday evening at 7, the couch-filled basement lounge of the Wetlands is the site of informal political forums. Last week about 30 people gathered as Bre Reiber, a 22-year-old executive assistant at the peace group Physicians for Social Responsibility discussed the effects of United States policies toward Iraq.
The issues that most inspire the young people at such gatherings are different from the ones their parents embraced. Environmentalism is their main cause, and they support animal rights, a nascent movement in the 1960's. They say their approach also differs.
"We're going to do this and get it done," said Karen Benezra. "We're not going to just commune. A lot of it is finding yourself through ethics and direct action and not wastes of time and peyote."
Ms. Benezra's flippant put-down of psychedelic drugs reflected a certain defensiveness among these young activists. Although casual drug use is commonplace, many young people disassociate themselves from the image of the stoned hippie living in a hazy fantasy. They also rejected the idea, so important in the 60's, of generational unity.
"I don't think we're trying to build a generational movement," said Mr. Weissman. "Less than a generation gap, there's a cultural gap between people who feel that going along with a society bent on self-destruction through massive overconsumption and global exploitation and fundamental injustice is an acceptable thing, and those of us who don't."
Clara Kramer-Wheeler, 17, gave a personal spin to Mr. Weissman's rhetoric. "If I was the only young person in a group of activists, I'd feel left out," she said. "But I go to demos with my parents all the time. Me and my sister got them back into activism."
Rather than dreaming of a mass movement, these self-styled counterculture kids take a do-it-yourself approach to relatively small corners of the culture, whether that means staging guerrilla protests or trading tapes of their favorite shows.
"It's beyond the music-industry hype, beyond the machine," said Mr. Garvey. "Now people go to dance, to meet these other folks. Tapers support that because they're disseminating the music and getting people interested in becoming part of a community."
 
Deliberately On the Fringe
Few of the jam bands are on major labels, and those who are, like Phish (and, briefly, Moe, before it parted ways with Sony), stay credible by maintaining some distance from the mainstream pop world. Phish has never had a hit single; most of its songs are too long and complicated for the radio.
Although the band plays standard concert sites, it sells most tickets through a self-maintained mail-order service and holds some special events, like last weekend's festival in Oswego County, N.Y., at places where the band, not a promoter, makes the rules.
Their fans make such activities possible. The presence of the jam bands on the Internet is extraordinary. The most popular bands have elaborate networks of Web sites and mailing lists, and there is even a database, www.jambase.com, that tracks concert dates throughout the country. Well-equipped insiders bring laptop computers and cellular modems to shows, transmitting instant set lists and reviews on the Internet.
Fans and artists also organize their own festivals, reasonably priced alternatives to corporate events like Woodstock, throughout the summer. The Finger Lakes Grass-Roots Festival, running tomorrow through Sunday at the Trumansburg Fairgrounds, near Ithaca, N.Y., is one example. Founded by the jam band Donna the Buffalo in 1991, the charity event has expanded to embrace a world of music -- this year's performers include the venerable African singer Thomas Mapfumo, the reggae veteran Justin Hinds and the Irish-American supergroup Solas.
Moe can't make it to this weekend's Grass-Roots Festival partly because the band is playing on Friday afternoon at the Woodstock concert. Mr. Garvey said that he was happy to perform for the 250,000 people expected at the Rome blowout, but that he hoped to make it over to Trumansburg afterward to hang out among 10,000 more like-minded folks.
He said he did not expect to run into many "moe.rons," as his band's devotees are called, at Woodstock. The gathering is too expensive, too big, and besides, the Grass-Roots Festival and three Midwestern Phish shows are that weekend. The children of the counterculture will be scattered as usual, pursuing their subcultural way of life.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the road: Followers of the band Phish include Elana Goldman, far left, Randy Schwartz and Jessica Laftif, above, who with thousands of other fans convened last week for a tour stop in Holmdel, N.J., inset. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. E1); Matthew Rudnicki, left, and Benjy Eisen in the Winnebago they rented with some friends to follow Phish. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PHISH (MUSIC GROUP) PNC BANK NA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHISH (MUSIC GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); STATE PARKS (75%); CHILDREN (72%); CANNABIS (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); GRANDPARENTS (66%); WETLANDS (50%); 

PERSON: POWERS, ANN MATT IARROBINO (60%); BENJY EISEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



478 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Profit Higher For Bank One And Mellon

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Bank One Corporation and the Mellon Bank Corporation reported higher second-quarter profits yesterday based on the rising stock market and increasing consumer spending.
Bank One, the nation's fifth-largest bank, said earnings before a one-time charge rose 22 percent, while Mellon, the second-largest bank in Pennsylvania, said earnings gained 9.8 percent. 
 The banks are benefiting from "nine years of uninterrupted growth with low inflation," said Anthony Gray, chief financial officer of STI Capital Management, which oversees $15 billion. "Some of the businesses that the real big banks are in happen to be doing well right now."
Bank One, based in Chicago. said second-quarter operating profit rose to $1.11 billion, or 93 cents a diluted share, compared with $915 million, or 77 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. The results met analysts' estimates, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. Revenue rose to $4.56 billion from $4.47 billion.
Noninterest income rose 6.4 percent, to $2.22 billion, as credit card fees jumped 46 percent, to $920 million.
Bank One is starting to see savings from its merger last year with the First Chicago NBD Corporation, having reduced noninterest expense for two consecutive quarters.
Net income rose 11 percent, to $992 million, or 83 cents a share, compared with $895 million, or 75 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier, including charges this year for the merger with First Chicago and gains a year ago from branch sales.
Shares of Bank One fell $1.0625 yesterday, to $59.375.
Second-quarter earnings at Mellon, based in Pittsburgh, rose to a record $236 million, or 45 cents a diluted share, compared with $215 million, or 40 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier, also meeting Wall Street estimates.
At Mellon, which owns the Dreyfus family of mutual funds, fees from mutual funds, investment management and other services rose 25 percent, to $284 million.
Fee revenue rose 11 percent, to $787 million.
In the latest quarter, net interest revenue fell 2.9 percent, to $363 million.
Shares of Mellon fell $1.75, to $34.875 yesterday. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); BK (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK ONE CORP; MELLON BANK CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (93%); FIRST CALL CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK ONE CORP; MELLON BANK CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; BANKS AND BANKING INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



479 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
World Trade Group Agrees On Split Term for Director

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, July 20

 BODY:
Members of the World Trade Organization resolved a prolonged and bitter dispute over who would be its next leader today by agreeing that the two finalists will share the job in consecutive three-year terms, with the New Zealand candidate going first, followed by his Thai rival.
The compromise, which had been gathering support in the last few weeks, was introduced today at the organization's decision-making General Council. It is likely to be formally approved on Friday, representatives said. 
 If approved, it would end a struggle that had pitted Mike Moore, a former New Zealand Prime Minister, against Supachai Panitchpakdi, a Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand, to head the 134-nation organization that sets the rules of global commerce.
And, though the dividing lines were not always neat or clearly drawn, the leadership struggle also pitted Western economic powers, many of whom supported Mr. Moore, against Asians and others in the third world, who saw Mr. Supachai's candidacy as a way of gaining some equality in international councils.
Supporters of each candidate agreed that the trade organization had worked its way out of an embarrassing and potentially crippling episode in its young history. "No one pretends that this is an ideal solution, but it is certainly the most practicable," said Iftekhar Chowdhury, the representative from Bangladesh, which first proposed the idea of a divided term.
The previous Director General, Renato Ruggiero of Italy, who left the post at the end of April, served a four-year term, though after an initial fight over his appointment.
The United States, which had supported Mr. Moore and was privately accused by some countries of trying to sabotage Mr. Supachai's candidacy, said it was satisfied with the outcome. "We accept this knowing that we have to move forward with the trade agenda," said Rita Hayes, the American representative at the trade organization. "These are two very qualified individuals."
A formal announcement of the sharing arrangement was partly dependent on negotiations over who would become the deputy directors general in various world regions. But even if disagreements arose over these posts, representatives said, the split-term arrangement for director general would not be derailed.
The failure to fill the top post had been threatening the smooth functioning of the Geneva-based group. The Director General oversees a staff of 500 and can appoint arbitration panels in trade disputes.
The main question surrounding the split-term compromise was on who would go first. Last week, the Thai Government helped expedite a solution by announcing that Mr. Supachai could take the second term, and that broke the last significant obstacle to the deal.
"I am delighted that the meeting today reached a conclusion on term-sharing," Mr. Supachai said in a statement today.
Under the compromise, Mr. Moore will take over on Sept. 1 and serve through Aug. 31, 2002. Mr. Supachai's term would start the following day and finish on Aug. 31, 2005.
Mr. Moore's first priority will be to guide negotiations for the coming round of global trade talks scheduled in Seattle at the end of November.
In an interview, Mr. Moore quipped that his best qualification for the job "is that I look like Rocky" -- the nickname of Mr. Ruggiero. But at 50, Mr. Moore is 19 years younger than his predecessor.
He has held a number of New Zealand Government posts, notably a brief tenure as Prime Minister in 1990. "I was there such a short time it made Gerald Ford look like Franklin Roosevelt," Mr. Moore remarked.
Negotiations on how the deputy director general posts will be filled remain a potential source of conflict in the trade organization, the successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
Under the old GATT structure, there were two deputies, one from the United States and the other from India. Another deputy position was added and filled by a Latin American -- from Mexico -- in 1993. Two years later, when Mr. Ruggiero was named Director General of the new World Trade Organization, the number of deputies grew again when a South Korean was named a deputy.
With the Europeans relinquishing the top slot, which they held throughout the history of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, they are anxious for a deputy post. But many developing nations are similarly intent on getting deputy posts for Asia, Africa and Latin America. The United States also wants a deputy.
The math adds up to five deputies, three more than the trade organization had planned. For now, the proposed compromise indicates the need for "equitable geographical balance" in the deputy selection, but interpreting that phrase is certain to lead to a lot of hard bargaining.
"The question is how to deal them out," said Pakistan's trade envoy, Munir Akram. "They're important because it's like having a sympathetic ear in the court. It's somebody you can pick up the phone and talk to if there's a problem."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a compromise, Mike Moore of New Zealand will lead the World Trade Organization for three years, with his Thai rival serving the next three. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NEW ZEALAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE BANK (91%); WORLD TRADE & MARKETING LTD (91%); WORLD TRADE BUN KEE LTD (91%); WORLD TRADE SYSTEMS PLC (91%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE IN LONDON LTD (91%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE MOSCOW JOINT STOCK CO (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ZEALAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH; MOORE, MIKE; SUPACHAI PANITCHPAKDI (MIN) MIKE MOORE (92%); SUPACHAI PANITCHPAKDI (85%); RENATO RUGGIERO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



480 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Passengers on Jetblue will be able to watch live satellite-television programming from their seats.

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
JETBLUE AIRWAYS plans to offer its passengers live satellite-television programming, a feature that experts say could revolutionize in-flight entertainment throughout the aviation industry.
The new discount airline, which is scheduled to begin domestic flights out of Kennedy International Airport early next year, will use Airbus A320 planes equipped with special antennas that are part of a system developed by Live TV, a joint venture between the Harris Corporation and Sextant In-flight Systems. The antennas will receive programming from three satellites that broadcast the satellite-television service offered in the continental United States by DirecTV, a unit of Hughes Electronics, which is itself owned by General Motors. 
 Five-inch, high-resolution television screens will be installed on the back of all Jetblue seats, while armrests will be equipped with plugs for headsets as well as volume and channel controls.
Tom Anderson, Jetblue's director of aircraft programs, said the carrier would offer 24 channels of live programming from DirecTV, plus one channel that will track the plane's route and another that will be used for promotional purposes. With the exception of the safety briefing, all programs will be available from the minute a passenger sits down until the plane arrives at its destination gate.
No decisions have been made yet about what channels Jetblue will offer; by Federal law, DirecTV can broadcast only cable, not network, television programming in flight. Mr. Anderson also said Jetblue would not censor programming. For example, if a plane crash occurs, Jetblue will not suspend news programs dealing with that. Commercials also will be the same as they are on the ground.
Jetblue will charge $3 to $5 for its TV service, depending on the length of the flight; payment will be by credit card only.
Jetblue will be among the first carriers to feature live satellite-television programming. Delta Air Lines used DirecTV on one flight in October 1996 to broadcast the fourth game of the World Series between the Atlanta Braves and New York Yankees. John Kennedy, a Delta spokesman, said the airline had no plans to reintroduce the service now or in the immediate future. DirecTV has also been selling its service to private jet owners since last year.
Mr. Anderson said Jetblue's new system would give travelers more choice in and greater control over entertainment options than they now have. He also said the system occupied less room in an aircraft cabin than others, freeing space both in overhead bins and beneath seats.
Glenn Latta, Live TV's vice president of operations and corporate development, said his company had signed an agreement with a second United States airline, which he declined to identify, to also offer 24 channels of programming from DirecTV.
Terry Wiseman, publisher of Airfax, a Seattle-based newsletter on in-flight entertainment, suggested that Jetblue's service would be a test case for the airline industry of live in-flight TV.
"If it works in the U.S., you might see it go on international routings when international satellite systems are put up," he said.
He also predicted that air travelers who track stocks on in-flight television would call their brokers from their airplane seats to make trades. And he said they would even be able to conduct such transactions on line once planes are equipped, also by satellite, with E-mail and Internet capabilities.
 
New Service to Italy
Air Europe, which is based in Milan, Italy, and 49.9% owned by SAir Group, the parent of Swissair, will begin service on the Pisa-Venice-New York (Kennedy) route July 26. Flights, which will operate every day but Wednesday, will serve fresh pasta, espresso, Italian pastries and ice cream in both economy and business classes. The carrier is offering an introductory round-trip economy-class fare to either Venice or Pisa for $425, with some restrictions, through Sept. 30.
 
For What Can Ail You
Cadogan Guides has published the second edition of "Bugs, Bites and Bowels," a medical book for travelers by Dr. Jane Wilson-Howarth, an expedition doctor and parasitologist. It covers everything from food-related illnesses to skin infections and motion sickness, and contains charts on tropical diseases and data on immunizations. Distributed in the United States by Globe Pequot Press, it costs $9.95. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (98%); DAL (NYSE) (74%); HRS (NYSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; LIVE PICTURES INC; HARRIS CORP; SEXTANT IN-FLIGHT SYSTEMS; AIR EUROPE; SAIR GROUP JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (98%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); SEXTANT IN-FLIGHT SYSTEMS LLC (72%); HARRIS CORP (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JETBLUE AIRWAYS; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; LIVE PICTURES INC; HARRIS CORP; SEXTANT IN-FLIGHT SYSTEMS; AIR EUROPE; SAIR GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PISA (ITALY); ITALY; VENICE (ITALY); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TELEVISION; SATELLITES SATELLITE TELEVISION (95%); AIRLINES (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); BASEBALL (85%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (65%); 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); JOHN F KENNEDY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



481 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Philip Morris Food Business Offsets Soft Tobacco Sales

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Philip Morris Companies, the world's largest tobacco company, said yesterday that its second-quarter earnings, excluding charges, rose nearly 3 percent as its Kraft food unit increased sales and cut costs, softening declines in cigarette profits.
The company, which makes Marlboro cigarettes, Maxwell House coffee and Miller beer, said profit excluding charges was $2.06 billion, or 85 cents a diluted share, compared with $2 billion, or 82 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. The results met analysts' expectations, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. 
 Revenue rose 4.3 percent, to $19.81 billion from $18.99 billion. Net earnings, including one-time items, were up 16.7 percent, to $2.03 billion, or 84 cents a share, from $1.74 billion, or 71 cents a share, a year ago.
Kraft, with a product line that includes Velveeta and Miracle Whip, surged on higher sales from new products and a cost-cutting push begun in 1997. Its North America profit rose 7 percent in the quarter. Kraft accounts for almost a third of Philip Morris's annual profit.
"Kraft has terrific brand franchises, and they've been very effective in reducing costs," said Marc Cohen, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Philip Morris's earnings were dragged down by its flagship tobacco business, where sales and profits fell because of higher prices in the United States and falling currencies and weakened economies in Eastern Europe and Latin America.
The company, based in New York, warned three weeks ago that its profit this year would be less than some analysts had forecast because of falling cigarette sales abroad and currency effects.
Shares of Philip Morris fell 12.5 cents yesterday, to $37.3125. Its shares have fallen 30 percent this year after two big jury awards in smoking-related cases against the company and an expected suit from the Federal Government.
Cigarette unit sales in the United States fell 9.6 percent because of higher prices to pay for a $206 billion legal settlement with states. Still, that was less than the 10.4 percent decline in industrywide unit sales.
Domestic tobacco profit fell 3.9 percent on a $1.1 billion payment for the settlement and a promotion offering a 35-cent-a-pack discount during a five-week period in the quarter.
Foreign tobacco unit sales fell 6.1 percent, as sales dropped an aggregate 32 percent in Russia, the rest of Eastern Europe, Venezuela, Brazil and in its worldwide duty-free business. The declines offset a 6.7 percent rise in more profitable markets in Western Europe and Japan.
Philip Morris also benefited from a 13 percent rise in profit at its Miller beer unit on newly acquired brands and increased profit margins. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (98%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (69%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES ALTRIA GROUP INC (98%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FIRST CALL CORP (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (69%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DAMAGES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); SMOKING (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); BRANDING (66%); CURRENCIES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



482 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Arthur Katz, 91, the Maker Of Corgi Toy Cars, Is Dead

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Arthur Katz, whose Corgi brand of miniature cars thrilled a generation of children, many of whom became collectors as adults, died on June 25 near his home in London. He was 91.
Before Mr. Katz introduced the Corgi line in 1956, most die-cast metal toy cars were fairly crude. Many companies simply painted the zinc-alloy forms that were pressed from molds and added wheels. But Mr. Katz's engineers and designers added details like plastic windshields and diamond-crystal headlights as well as gadgets and gimmicks like spring-mounted wheels and doors and hoods and trunks that opened. 
 Corgi's best seller was a model of the Aston Martin DB5 sports car, the auto driven by James Bond in the 1964 film "Goldfinger." As in the movie, the Corgi model had rotating license plates, a steel screen that sprang up to protect the back windshield from bullets fired by hostile pursuers, hub caps with Ben Hur-style tire slashers, machine gun turrets that popped out from behind the headlights, and best of all, an ejection seat that sent a tiny plastic passenger hurtling skyward through the car's roof.
At its peak in the early 1970's, Mr. Katz's company, Mettoy Ltd., employed 3,500 workers.
"I remember going to the factory in Swansea in South Wales," said Eugene McKeown, the director of sales at Reeves International Inc. in Pequannock, N.J., which is the United States distributor for Corgi. "It was like General Motors. There were people creating thousands and thousands of cars."
Mr. Katz retired in the mid-1970's. By the end of the decade, Mettoy was in trouble. Britain's high inflation and the soaring value of its currency had made the company's toys much more expensive than those of Asian rivals. "There was no way you could cut your costs fast enough," said Peter Katz, Arthur Katz's son, who was Mettoy's managing director.
Mettoy declared bankruptcy in 1983, as had several other famous British toy makers, including a rival, Matchbox. A group of its managers tried to resurrect the company, moving production to China. They later sold the company to Mattel Inc., which, in turn, sold it to another management group in 1995. It is now a private company based in Britain called Corgi Classics.
Since the 1970's, the demand for toy cars has shrunk, as children's tastes have switched to action figures and video games. Corgi cars are now sold primarily in specialty shops. But there has been a resurgence in demand among baby boomers the last five years.
Corgi cars that sold for $5 and $6 in the 1970's now retail for $30 to $40 new, while originals from the 1960's and 70's in mint condition can sell for several hundred dollars. "Die cast is among the hottest categories of collectibles right now," said Chris Byrne, editor of Toy Report, a weekly newsletter.
Mr. Katz was born in Johannesburg to German parents in 1908. When he was 12, he and his mother moved to Nuremberg, then the center of the German toy industry, after his father's death.
Upon completing his schooling and serving an apprenticeship at one of the city's toy export companies, Mr. Katz joined Tipp & Company, a maker of pressed-tin toys that was owned by Philip Ullmann, who was his mother's cousin.
In 1933, after Hitler came to power, Mr. Katz, who was Jewish and held a British passport, having been born in South Africa, emigrated to England. Mr. Ullmann joined him there, and together they founded Mettoy.
The company had a quick start but was soon diverted to war production. After World War II, Mr. Katz began focusing on the export market. "He was an extremely good negotiator," Peter Katz said, "which means that he was good at reaching agreements with people whereby they felt comfortable with it, and the company felt comfortable with it."
Besides his son, Mr. Katz is survived by his third wife, Agnes, and a daughter, Susan Wolff, all of London.
Although Mettoy was never the largest British toy manufacturer, Mr. Katz became the industry's leader, serving as head of the British Toy Manufacturers' Association in the 1950's and 1970's.
He showed his devotion to his adopted country by naming the Corgi brand after the breed of dog most favored by the British royal family. In turn, he was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1961 and was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1973.
In one of the more curious episodes in Mr. Katz's life, he was appointed a colonel in the British Army in 1946 and dispatched to Germany to see if there was anything that Britain could salvage from what remained of the German toy industry.
He found little of value but did get the chance to return to Tipp, which had been expropriated by the Nazis after Mr. Ullmann fled.
"He had the pleasure," his son recalled, "of dismissing the man appointed by the Nazis to run it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arthur Katz, patriarch of the British toy industry, at a 1951 toy fair with Queen Mary the Queen Mother, the grandmother of Queen Elizabeth II. (The Daily Telegraph of London); The Corgi miniature Batmobile.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (84%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); WALES (74%); CHINA (72%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); WALES (74%); CHINA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); AUTOMOBILES; MINIATURIZATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (89%); SHOOTINGS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (74%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (70%); SALES MANAGEMENT (70%); SPORTS CARS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); 

PERSON: KATZ, ARTHUR; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



483 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Camden Officials Ask State to Take Over Daily Operations of City

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
Noting that Camden's increasing dependence on state aid had effectively destroyed local political control, the City Council voted yesterday to press the state to take over day-to-day operations of the city.
Meeting in an extraordinary session yesterday afternoon, the City Council approved, by a 5-to-1 vote with a single member absent, a resolution introduced by Mayor Milton Milan calling for a state takeover. 
 The dramatic step by the elected officials of the city of 87,000 people came just a day after they had taken the equally dramatic step of filing for Federal bankruptcy protection under Chapter 9. That filing was an attempt to hold creditors at bay and to highlight the city's plight as it tries to close a $12 million gap in its current $110 million budget.
"What the Mayor is saying is that he will step aside and let the state take over because if they are fiscally responsible then they ought to be held politically responsible as well," said John Misci, the city attorney, who was preparing to move yesterday afternoon or today in state court to request the takeover. "Let them draw up the budget and defend it to voters and tell them why there isn't enough money to clean streets, repair sidewalks and demolish buildings."
While state officials had no immediate reaction to the latest city move in the escalating war of words, Jane M. Kenny, Commissioner of State Department of Community Affairs, did say that the Monday bankruptcy filing by the city was not only reckless but illegal because it first required that it get state permission. Consequently, she said, the State Attorney General will file a motion today in Federal Bankruptcy Court to have the city petition dismissed.
"Really?" Mr. Misci said simply in response.
Both the bankruptcy filing and the challenge to the state come a week after Mayor Milan and other city officials declined to grant the state sweeping powers to audit their spending and impose fiscal and management changes in exchange for granting them the additional budget balancing funds they need. The conditions, Mr. Misci said, would hamstring Mayor Milan and any elected official who followed him.
The funds were part of the Distressed Cities Act passed by the State Legislature last month and intended to aid five financially strapped cities in New Jersey: Camden, Jersey City, Paterson, East Orange and Irvington. All of the cities with the exception of Camden agreed to the auditing and revamping conditions. When Camden declined, the state not only withdrew the $12 million but withheld $50 million more in funds scheduled to be deposited into city bank accounts. About 70 percent of the city's budget comes from various state and Federal sources.
City officials said that there was no threat of immediate service disruptions or layoffs. Mr. Misci said that the city had enough cash on hand to operate most services at current levels for the next 30 days.
The increasingly acrimonious tone of the exchanges between Camden and state officials hinted at hard feelings that have accumulated over the years as the city has watched its tax base and manufacturing-based economy erode. It has become increasingly dependent on state aid as its population has grown poorer. And there were management problems and occasional corruption charges.
But in the last two decades, said Robert Bailey, a professor of public administration at the Camden campus of Rutgers University, the city has had to give over areas of control to meet conditions for state or Federal aid: its parking authority went to the state, its housing and development programs went to the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, its Empowerment Zone went to independent bodies and its police department went to the county prosecutor.
"This is the capstone of the slow teasing away of the managerial authority of the city," said Mr. Bailey, referring to the auditing and revamping requirements of the Distressed Cities Act. "There is some disingenuousness on the part of the state, which could have upgraded City Hall management skills and given them some breathing space to instill fiscal discipline. But the whole sense of the state's role over the years has been punitive."
Angel Fuentes, a three-term member of the Council, echoed the frustration felt by officials and some residents of the city, calling recent state actions "politics as usual at the expense of our constituents." He added, "We just don't see a light at the end of this tunnel."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Milton Milan led Camden to file for Federal bankruptcy protection on Monday. Behind him is Robert Law, the city's finance director. (Tom Gralish/Philadelphia Inquirer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (87%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MILAN, ITALY (87%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); PETITIONS (76%); LAWYERS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (65%); WAR & CONFLICT (51%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; MILAN, MILTON (MAYOR) JOHN MISCI (73%); MILTON MILAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



484 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Euro, Braking Its Slide, Rises On the Dollar

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Europe's single currency rallied sharply against the dollar yesterday after a key economic report showed business confidence in Germany growing much more than expected. In contrast, the dollar climbed against the Japanese yen after the Bank of Japan sold yen for dollars through the Federal Reserve.
For the beleaguered euro, the new currency that has dropped as much as 13 percent since its introduction in January, the rally may signal that it has reached a bottom. But what kind of rebound may be ahead is unclear. 
 For the yen, the Japanese intervention was aimed at preventing the currency's value from rising too quickly. This year's rally in the Japanese stock market, and signs that the economy may be turning around, have led many investors to jump back into stocks and into the yen needed to buy them. But a big rally in the yen would make Japanese exporters less competitive abroad and put a drag on an economic rebound.
The euro, in trading yesterday, was worth $1.04130, up from $1.02940 Monday. Its low for the year was $1.0136 last Wednesday. Against the yen, the dollar climbed to 118.95 yen, from 117.80 on Monday.
The spark for yesterday's rally by the euro, which represents the currencies of 11 nations, was a report by the Ifo economic research institute of Munich that put its business confidence index for Germany, the largest economy in Europe, at 92.9 in June, up from a revised 90.5 in May. The rise was much sharper than analysts expected.
In addition, interest rates in Europe have recently been rising. While interest rates are still higher in the United States, the narrowing of the gap increases the euro's attractiveness to investors. And in recent comments, leaders of the European Central Bank have hinted that their next move will be to raise interest rates.
But it will take further confirmation that the economies of Germany and other European nations are turning around before many analysts will be ready to declare that the euro can climb back to its January level of $1.17, and higher.
Jeremy P. Fand, senior foreign exchange strategist at BankBoston, said he expected the euro to rally in the short term. But he has not changed his long-term outlook. In fact, BankBoston is still predicting that the euro will drop below $1.00 by the end of the year.
The intervention to weaken the yen against the dollar yesterday was prompted in part by the yen's sharp rise on Monday, when it jumped 2.3 percent against the dollar. That rally, analysts said, was started by speculation, which no official confirmed, that American officials had told the Japanese that the United States would not help them slow the appreciation of their currency.
To some that meant that the new Treasury Secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, did not support the strong-dollar policy of his predecessor, Robert E. Rubin. After the intervention yesterday, Mr. Summers said the United States' policy favoring a strong dollar had not changed.
But analysts do not think that the intervention by the Bank of Japan alone can keep the yen from getting stronger. Yesterday's yen selling was the sixth time that Japan has intervened since June 10, when the yen was 118.96 to the dollar, according to Bloomberg News.
"This slows down the recovery of the yen against the dollar," said Karen E. Parker, currency strategist at the Chase Manhattan Bank. She predicts that the yen will rally to a range of 110 to 115 to the dollar in the next 6 to 12 months.
It is not unusual for one central bank to intervene in the currency markets on behalf of another central bank, and usually such a move does not signal any policy change by the central bank that is asked to intervene. The Bank of Japan probably used the Federal Reserve yesterday because Japanese markets were closed for a holiday and on Monday the yen jumped back to the 118 level, where the intervention process began on June 10.
The intervention would have been more significant if the Fed were doing it for its own policy reasons in conjunction with the Bank of Japan, as it had in June 1998. Then, the Fed joined the Japanese by intervening to support the yen when it was falling sharply, threatening to worsen a global economic crisis.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Holding Down the Yen"
Six times in the last two months, the Bank of Japan, or another central bank acting on its behalf, has attempted to stop the rise of the yen by intervening in foreign exchange markets. The scale is inverted to show rising value of the yen. Graph tracks yen to the dollar, daily settlement price, since the beginning of June. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); 

CITY: MUNICH, GERMANY (50%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BANK OF JAPAN EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BANK OF JAPAN FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; JAPAN; EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); MUNICH, GERMANY (50%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); EURO (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



485 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Trade Deficit Set a Record During May

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20

 BODY:
A surge of imports driven by the continued strength of the American economy pushed the United States trade deficit to another record in May, more than $21 billion, fueled both by rising oil prices and growing evidence that China is using exports to support its lagging economy.
The China deficit comes at a politically inopportune time for the Clinton Administration: Next week, the House of Representatives is expected to vote on a one-year renewal of China's preferential trade status. While the House is expected to approve the measure, the rising deficit with China -- it totaled more than $23 billion in the first five months of 1999 -- further complicates a relationship already deeply strained by the accidental bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade and China's renewed threats to use force if necessary to keep Taiwan from declaring itself an independent state. 
 The trade deficit is also one of the few economic indicators that Republican Presidential candidates can seize on to argue that not all is well with the American economy. But it is, in fact, a byproduct of American economic health; with unemployment at record lows, low-cost imports have helped keep inflation near zero.
"The May trade figures reflect the continuing large gap between the strong growth in the United States and weaker conditions in many foreign countries," Commerce Secretary William M. Daley said today. He estimated that the deficit was running at an annual rate of $224.8 billion, which would be nearly 37 percent higher than last year's record, $164.3 billion. China is not the only cause. The trade deficit with Japan remains large, though it dropped slightly in May, and there is a rising deficit with Canada and Mexico, the two other members of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
The size of the May deficit surprised many economists and led a few today to lower their predictions for American economic growth in the second quarter a bit. But perhaps more important, it was a strong indication that the American consumer spending binge is moving ahead unabated, which is bound to worry the Federal Reserve.
"Five years ago if we had seen numbers like this, what you would have heard on Capitol Hill was politicians blaming the Japanese and the Chinese," said Richard Medley, who heads Medley Global Advisors, an international investment firm in New York. "Now what you hear more often is that this proves we are spending too much and saving too little."
In fact, a number of economists and American officials are increasingly concerned that the accumulating current account deficit could ultimately hurt the value of the dollar -- and that, in turn, could set off an international exodus from the stock market.
The Japanese, meanwhile, are clearly worried about the effects of a weakening dollar -- not on the United States but on their own hobbled economy. They intervened Monday night to weaken the yen and prop up the dollar, in hopes of making their own exports cheaper on world markets. While the purchase was carried out through the New York Federal Reserve, acting as Japan's agent, there are increasing signs that the United States and Japan are at odds on exchange rate policy. A stronger dollar would further hurt declining American exports.
Today's report suggested that the decline is modest, but is made worse by the growing demand for foreign-made cars, crude oil and medium-technology electronics. Oil prices increased in May to an average of $14.54 a barrel, the Commerce Department said, from $12.71 a barrel in April.
Exports decreased to $77.6 billion from $78.2 billion in April, but they were up fractionally from May 1998. Imports increased to $98.9 billion from $96.8 billion in April and $92 billion in May 1998.
The latest figures suggest that some of the areas that the Clinton Administration concentrated the hardest on bolstering during Mr. Clinton's first term in office -- autos, auto parts and machinery -- are the exports now in greatest decline. They are also the products that are being imported in increasing numbers. Administration officials who once boasted of the auto and auto parts agreement they reached with Japan in 1995, after a trade dispute that nearly resulted in an embargo on Japanese luxury cars, now rarely discuss the subject.
Nor is there much discussion from the White House about how to deal with the complex trade problems with China. Over all, Chinese exports to the world are in decline. But their continued rise here suggests that the United States, now more than ever, has become the market of last resort for the Chinese.
The politics of the trade deficit with China are messy. Opponents of President Clinton's China policy -- on both the left and the right -- say the trade figures show that the President's decision to delink human rights and the annual renewal of China's trade status has helped neither dissidents nor American companies. Arrests by Chinese authorities continue -- there was a major crackdown today -- and exports to China are clearly not increasing.
Yet there has been little real resistance to the renewal of what was once called "most favored nation" trade status, and which has been delicately renamed "normal trade relations." American companies have argued annually on Capitol Hill that unless China has the benefit of low tariffs on their imports here, the Chinese market will gradually be shut down for them.
If China and the United States reach an agreement this year on Beijing's entry to the World Trade Organization, the terms of its move to join the group should, in theory at least, open more markets to American goods. But opponents on Capitol Hill, both those on the left who are concerned with China's human rights record and those on the right who see China as a growing threat, view its admission as a favor to the Chinese, and not one that will necessarily benefit American workers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" tracks dollar total of imports, exports and the deficit, from December 1997 through May 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NOW WHAT SOFTWARE (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CANADA; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); TRENDS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DALEY, WILLIAM M (SEC); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



486 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Detains Leaders of Sect, Watchdog Says

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 20

 BODY:
In what could be the start of a broad crackdown, dozens of leaders of the Buddhist Law spiritual movement were detained by the police today in 14 Chinese cities, according to a Hong Kong-based human rights group.
At least 70 leaders of the group, which stunned authorities last April when 10,000 adherents silently materialized in a protest outside the Communist leaders' compound here, were picked up in a sweep that began Monday night, the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China said. Arrests were reported in Beijing, Tianjin, Dalian and 11 other cities. 
 The rights group said the police searched the homes of the detainees, confiscating books about the rapidly growing movement and addresses of people who attended meetings.
The Chinese police would not confirm the reported detentions.
The group, known in Chinese as Falun Gong, combines traditional Chinese breathing and meditation exercises with the idiosyncratic blend of Buddhism and Taoism of its founder, Li Hongzhi, who lives in self-imposed exile in New York.
Falun Gong has posed a ticklish problem for the authorities since the demonstration on April 25. The group was protesting local officials' treatment of its members and demanding official recognition, which has not been granted.
The Government normally keeps a tight leash on mass organizations. But Falun Gong, whose rapidly increasing members are devoted to its mixture of martial arts and mysticism, could be a potent force in a country that faces dislocating social and economic changes.
Most alarming about the April demonstration -- the largest protest in Beijing since the 1989 democracy movement -- was that in a country where where public gatherings are tightly regulated, Falun Gong was able to mobilize thousands of followers without warning, leaving the authorities struggling to understand the extent of the group's reach.
Falun Gong insists it is apolitical, but the role of quasi-religious groups in fomenting political rebellion throughout Chinese history leave officials wary of its intentions.
Although the official news media did not report this week's detentions, officials in Beijing seemed well aware of the ramifications.
At Zhongnanhai, the sprawling walled compound where President Jiang Zemin and other leaders live, a huge police contingent patrolled the streets tonight on a sultry summer evening. The western edge of the compound, where the Falun Gong members massed in April, was closed to motor traffic.
Rumors of a crackdown against the group have circulated widely in recent weeks, despite assurances by Chinese officials that it would be left alone. In a meeting with Falun Gong members last month, a senior Government official warned the group not to "promote superstition" or "destroy social order."
Beijing appears to have been laying the groundwork for a crackdown. Over the past two weeks, state-controlled newspapers and television have carried a steady stream of commentaries about the dangers of superstition, particularly among Communist Party members.
In a front-page commentary on Monday -- its fifth on the topic since the April demonstration -- the Communist Party newspaper, People's Daily, blamed lax officials for the rampant spread of superstition. Newspapers and television reports have also begun celebrating people who they say overcame "feudal superstition" -- for example, a rural village where residents gave up rituals like hanging mirrors over doors.
Fears of harassment prompted Mr. Li, the founder and leader of Falun Gong, to move to the United States last year. On June 2 he said in a letter posted on the Internet that his followers were being treated unjustly. He suggested that China was negotiating to have him extradited in return for a $500 million reduction in China's trade surplus with the United States.
Although there were no signs of protest in Beijing today, several hundred Falun Gong members demonstrated in Dalian and two smaller cities, the Hong Kong rights group said. And in Hong Kong this afternoon about 150 people marched to the local branch of the official New China News Agency, where they delivered a letter appealing to the Chinese Government to release the detained Falun Gong leaders.
"We wanted to express our shock and concern on this matter," said Sophie Xiao, a spokeswoman for the group in Hong Kong.
Ms. Xiao said she spoke today with Falun Gong members in Beijing who were worried that the Government might declare the group illegal. While not officially recognized, Falun Gong has existed in a kind of gray area, as the Government has tried to avoid a confrontation.
"We're not trying to threaten anybody," Ms. Xiao said. "People who don't understand us may feel threatened because of the number of people who are doing it, and because of how quickly we have grown."
Indeed, from a standing start seven years ago, Falun Gong now claims 100 million members worldwide, though this cannot be confirmed.
Mr. Li, 48, a former grain bureau clerk in northeastern China, began his metamorphosis into a spiritual leader in the late 1980's, when he discovered the ancient practice of qigong (pronounced chee-gong), in which people seek to channel their vital energies to improve their health and even heal others.
By combining qigong with his own mystical ideas, Mr. Li fashioned an all-embracing philosophy that preaches clean living. Eschewing politics, followers of Falun Gong work hard to portray themselves simply as good people.
The detentions, and the heavy police presence in Beijing tonight, suggest that the authorities fear otherwise.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of China shows location of Beijing: Police roundups were reported in 14 cities, including Beijing. (pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

COMPANY: BUDDHIST LAW (RELIGIOUS CULT) FALUN GONG (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUDDHIST LAW (RELIGIOUS CULT) FALUN GONG (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; DALIAN (CHINA); CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS RELIGION (95%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (91%); CULTS & SECTS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); RIOTS (78%); MEDITATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (73%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (73%); CHURCH & STATE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MARTIAL ARTS (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK SOPHIE XIAO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



487 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. LEADERS TRY TO STEM A REVOLT OVER BIG TAX CUT

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20

 BODY:
Republican leaders in the House scrambled today to head off a revolt by party moderates and avert a humiliating defeat on their signature issue of tax cuts.
With a vote on the biggest tax cut since 1981 scheduled for Wednesday on the House floor, Republicans said it was unclear whether enough of the 20 or so moderates would break with the leadership to defeat or block passage of the bill, the centerpiece of the party's domestic agenda. 
 The moderates have been pressing Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and his deputies to scale back the 10-year, $864 billion tax-cutting package approved last week by the Ways and Means Committee, saying the bill leaves none of the projected Federal budget surplus to help reduce the national debt or address issues like education.
The leadership agreed to cut the package to $792 billion, the size of a corresponding bill taken up today by the Senate Finance Committee, both to mollify the moderates and to sidestep a procedural problem. But the Republican moderates, led by Representative Michael N. Castle of Delaware, insisted today on a package of no more than $514 billion.
At a lunchtime meeting, the moderates listened to pleas for support from Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, the chairman of the Budget Committee. Tonight, the moderates were summoned to a meeting with Mr. Hastert, who also urged their support.
But afterward, Mr. Castle repeated that he would not vote for the $792 billion package, and that enough other moderates shared his view to block its passage.
"As of right now, clearly they would not be able to pass the bill," Mr. Castle said.
Republican aides said a preliminary count today showed that the leadership remained short of the 218 votes need to insure passage, and that intensive horse trading was under way. But such jockeying is common before high-stakes votes, and senior Republicans said they were confident of getting enough votes to pass the bill.
"We will have the votes," said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader. "We're talking with all of our members and listening to all of our members."
The situation is the latest illustration of the difficulty that Republicans are having maintaining a working majority in the House, where the party is tugged constantly between factions, each of which is capable of blocking legislation. The leadership's situation has been made more difficult by the defection from the party last week of Representative Michael P. Forbes of Long Island, who abruptly announced on Friday that he was joining the Democrats.
Republicans have 222 members in the House. There are 211 Democrats, plus one independent, Representative Bernard Sanders of Vermont, who almost always votes with the Democrats. There is one vacancy.
As a result, the votes of as few as five Republicans can deprive the party of a majority, assuming all Democrats and the independent stick together. Mr. Castle said there were at least a half-dozen moderates intent on voting against the $792 billion Republican package.
Emboldened by projections of rapidly growing Federal budget surpluses, Republican leaders had planned for this year's tax bill to be the vehicle for an ideologically charged showdown with Democrats and President Clinton over the size of the Government and the nation's priorities in an era of prosperity.
Although Mr. Clinton has signaled a willingness to discuss a compromise, he sent his top aides to Capitol Hill today to underscore his opposition to any plan approaching the size of the $792 billion package contemplated by the Republicans.
"The tax cuts that have been put on the table will represent a reversal of course that would put the economic strategy we have been pursuing and the prosperity it has brought us at risk," said Lawrence H. Summers, the Treasury Secretary.
In the Senate, Republicans reached out to Democrats by writing a bill geared more to the middle class than the House version is. Democrats have responded with compromise overtures of their own, with a few centrist Democrats saying today that they would support a tax cut of around $500 billion.
But there has been no effort at bipartisanship in the House, where issues tend to be more polarized. The problem for Republicans in the House has been almost completely from within their own ranks.
Already Mr. Archer has had to rework the bill that passed the Ways and Means Committee to bring its cost down to $792 billion over 10 years. He said today that he had done so primarily by phasing in the bill's main components, its 10 percent reduction in income tax rates and its repeal of the inheritance tax on large estates, more slowly than he had originally contemplated. Mr. Archer was forced to make the changes because a larger bill would have been subject to parliamentary rules that would allow a filibuster in the Senate, further complicating the prospects for a tax cut.
But several moderates said the reduction to $792 billion from $864 billion was not enough to deal with their objections.
Many of the moderates are from the Northeast and from districts where voters are more centrist than those from Republican districts in other regions, particularly the South.
Representative Marge Roukema, a Republican from New Jersey, said she was opposed to the $792 billion tax package because it was too big and because it was based on projections of Federal budget surpluses that were likely to prove inaccurate.
"What I strongly recommended is that we postpone action until we get to a position where we have consensus on this and get a more realistic bill," she said. "I think the leadership has been somewhat surprised at the definitive nature of the criticism and the number of people willing to speak up. I want Denny Hastert and the Republican leadership to succeed, but we can't have only a minority from the South and West setting policy."
The moderates are not the only headache for the leadership. A group of social conservatives is pressing for the tax package to be changed to reflect their No. 1 tax issue, the repeal of the so-called marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code that hurts many two-income couples. But the conservatives said they were unlikely to withhold their support for the main bill over the issue. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEANS COMMITTEE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEANS COMMITTEE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NATIONAL DEBT (US) TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); APPROVALS (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); CASTLE, MICHAEL N (REPR) MICHAEL N CASTLE (89%); JOHN KASICH (59%); BERNIE SANDERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



488 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: The Empty U.S. Seat at Mideast Talks: A Boon for All

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20

 BODY:
One of the enduring images of the late and unlamented period in American-Israeli relations that ended with Ehud Barak's victory over Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is that of a senior State Department envoy with a tape measure marking off the width of Shuhadah Road in Hebron, in the West Bank.
Such was the depth of United States involvement in relations between Israelis and Palestinians that an official from Washington was flown in to determine the exact distance, to the inch, that should separate Jewish settlers from Palestinians in the divided town. 
 If anything changed as a result of Mr. Barak's visit to Washington, which ended today, it was this conception of the American role in Israel's dealings with its neighbors.
No longer, Mr. Barak and President Clinton pledged, will the United States serve as full-time intermediary, referee and highway engineer in relations between Israel and Syria, the Palestinians or other Arabs. The United States -- at least in the early stages -- is prepared to serve the same function as the father of the bride: It will provide the hall, toast the newlyweds and pick up the tab.
Important roles, to be sure, but far different from the parts Mr. Clinton and his aides played last October at the Wye Plantation talks, which ranged from drafting language for Israeli-Palestinian agreements to providing Central Intelligence Agency officers to enforce the deal. The new arrangement foresees a more active role for Washington only if the talks break down, as they almost certainly will at some point, Administration officials said this week.
"The United States should not come up with its own decisions how to resolve these issues," Vice President Al Gore said today after meeting with Mr. Barak. "In terms of trying to spell out the terms, that is not our role."
There are risks in this approach, which is a return to the style that guided United States efforts at Mideast peacemaking during the Government of Yitzhak Rabin, Mr. Barak's mentor and Mr. Clinton's friend, who was assassinated in 1995.
There is no guarantee that Israel can make peace on its own with Syria -- with which it has technically been at war for more than 30 years -- or with the Palestinians, who have very different views from most Israelis on sovereignty, Jerusalem and refugee issues.
But the rewards of a less intrusive American role are great as well, for Israel and its negotiating partners, and for Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Barak has indicated a desire to engage directly with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria and the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat without day-to-day American intervention.
Mr. Clinton, for his part, says he is happy to serve as host and caterer, providing the peace table at which the parties can dine alone. The catering bill will run to hundreds of millions of dollars -- to finance the prospective Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank and the Golan Heights, to subsidize improvements in Israel's military, to build housing, roads and ports for Palestinians, and perhaps one day, to bring Syria into the 21st-century economy.
But the economic benefits for the United States are considerable, too. Israel just this week announced its biggest arms deal ever, a $2.5 billion order for 50 new F-16E fighters and an option to buy 60 more warplanes for $2 billion. That will preserve thousands of jobs at Lockheed Martin and underwrite refinements in American aircraft development at a time when the Pentagon is cutting back on its fighter purchases.
It is expected that American companies will also have a role in the big-dollar improvements in Palestinian territories. In addition, peace could lower the American military costs of monitoring the region, though Iran and Iraq continue to pose threats.
And that is not to mention Mr. Clinton's interest in establishing a legacy as a peacemaker in his remaining months in office and maybe winning that coveted Nobel Prize.
Mr. Clinton said last week that "everyone knows what the big issues are" in Middle East negotiations. Progress stalled under Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Clinton acknowledged, but he said Mr. Barak's election "gives the United States the opportunity to facilitate the process, something we've been trying to do for well over two decades."
At the same time, he said, any lasting agreement must come from mutual trust and not under the duress of threats or inducements from outside.
A senior Administration official who handles Middle East affairs said the American role in regional affairs is "evolving" and will depend on Mr. Barak's success in winning the faith of his negotiating partners.
"The key determinant is the amount of trust between the parties so that we don't have to do the tedious job of intermediating between the sides," the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
"If they aren't talking, they'll come to us and say, 'We need you.' But our preference is to encourage them to speak directly, and we are the safety net, to propose bridging proposals and to provide enormous political, economic and diplomatic assistance to put the whole process in shape."
As eager as Mr. Clinton is for a dramatic peace deal, and as eager as Mr. Barak appears to restart the process, it is unlikely that the coming weeks or months will yield a a garlanded flight of doves.
Mr. Barak has said he will be able to judge the likelihood of success 15 months from now, just in time for the final lap of the American Presidential campaign. But he has cautioned against expectations of a miracle.
A senior Administration Middle East adviser said: "Forget any notion of major breakthroughs in the next few months. I don't think people should be expecting White House signing ceremonies any time soon." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SYRIA (93%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SYRIA (93%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PALESTINIANS STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); REFUGEES (62%); CATERING SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) EHUD BARAK (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); AL GORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



489 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Tries to Assure Arafat On West Bank Withdrawals

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ehud Barak tried to reassure Yasir Arafat today that Israel will move more quickly to complete withdrawals from the West Bank than the 15-month target he set for an overall Middle East peace settlement.
On the last day of his maiden voyage to Washington as the Israeli leader, Mr. Barak was replying to complaints today by Mr. Arafat, the Palestinian leader, that the 15-month timetable was unacceptable for carrying out the accords signed in Wye, Md. last fall. 
 "I fully agree with him," Mr. Barak said. "There is no reason to wait. We do intend to implement the Wye accords. I will check with him."
The Wye accords called for Israel to withdraw from another 13.1 percent of the West Bank. But that was stalled under the last Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and it has been a major concern of the Palestinian leader.
As a sign of the pressure on Mr. Arafat to get Israel to complete the withdrawals, the Palestine Liberation Organization's Executive Council said in Ramallah Sunday night that the Wye accords should be carried out in their entirety before negotiations begin on so-called final status talks. Those talks will address the boundaries of a Palestinian entity, the disposition of Jerusalem and the return of refugees.
Mr. Barak spent most of today visiting members of Congress, where he delivered one of the messages of his visit: that he intends to stand firm in negotiations he hopes to have with the Palestinians and Syrians on not returning to the borders before the 1967 war and that Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel.
The Republicans in Congress, who were a bulwark of support for Mr. Netanyahu, are key to the passage of the Administration's requests for financial aid to Israel -- including $1.2 billion tied to the Wye accords that President Clinton said this week he wanted expedited.
Some outspoken supporters of Mr. Netanyahu said today that they were impressed with the new Israeli leader. Representative Tom DeLay, the Texas Republican who is majority whip, said after meeting Mr. Barak that he liked what he heard.
The Speaker of the House, Representative Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, released a statement that echoed some of Mr. Barak's recent remarks, saying that Israel -- not the United States -- should be the final decision-maker about its future.
"As you pursue your policies of economic and political security for Israel, we in Congress firmly believe that in the final analysis, Israel must determine its own destiny," Mr. Hastert said.
Mr. Barak's first encounter on Capitol Hill this morning was with 30 Jewish members of Congress, many of whom support legislation that calls for moving the American Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem in the near future. Congress enacted a law in 1995 that called on the Administration to move the embassy by May 31 of this year, but President Clinton used a waiver provision in the law to delay the move.
Some members of Congress support legislation that would repeal Mr. Clinton's waiver. But at his meeting with Congressmen today, Mr. Barak gave a muted response to a question about the proposal, a participant said. The Prime Minister said the legislation should not be pushed now, but he added that he would not openly oppose it.
Israeli officials have said that mandating the move of the embassy before negotiations are completed with the Palestinians on the final status of Jerusalem would make the negotiations almost impossibly difficult.
Mr. Barak was also asked about the transfer of nuclear technology from Russia to Iran, a congressman said. The Prime Minister, a former chief of staff of the Israel Defense Forces, gave a detailed analysis of the seriousness of the problem and was supportive of the Clinton Administration's efforts to discourage the Russians, the congressman said.
At the State Department, Mr. Barak met with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright for the second time during his visit. They discussed her scheduled trip to the Middle East, which is expected to help set the stage for the opening of negotiations between Israel and President Hafez al-Assad of Syria.
Ms. Albright's trip, originally scheduled for the first week of August, was moved back to the middle of the month to give the Israelis more time to consult with the Palestinians and the Syrians and among themselves on how negotiations on an overall settlement might proceed, Administration officials said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; WEST BANK; SYRIA; JERUSALEM; ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); SYRIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PALESTINIANS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); REFUGEES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR EHUD BARAK (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



490 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Trade Deficit Sets a Record
The United States trade deficit jumped to more than $21 billion in May, another record, fueled by rising oil prices and growing evidence that China is using exports to support its lagging economy. PAGE C1 

U.N. Faulted on Kosovo
Senior Pentagon officials have criticized the United Nations for not moving faster to create a new police force and civil administration in Kosovo -- posts now being filled, reluctantly, by NATO.PAGE A10
 
Buying Calm in Serbia
In an effort to assuage popular anger and stop a wave of protests by unpaid army reservists, the Yugoslav Government plans to authorize overdue payments to reservists, pensioners and teachers. PAGE A10
 
House Passes Education Bill
The House approved a $2 billion bill for teacher training and recruitment that did not require, as President Clinton wished, that more than $1 billion be devoted to hiring an additional 100,000 teachers. PAGE B8
 
Public TV Repentant
Public television officials said that at least 28 stations had exchanged names of their donors with political organizations affiliated with the major parties, acknowledging that the practice was wrong. PAGE A18 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXPORT PRICES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); ARMIES (87%); ARMED FORCES (74%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TEACHER EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); POLITICS (67%); POLICE FORCES (56%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



491 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Jets' Johnson Brings His Skills to a New Field

BYLINE: By KEN GURNICK 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 20

 BODY:
Helping revitalize an offense is one thing. Keyshawn Johnson's off-season task is to help revitalize the decaying neighborhood of his youth.
Johnson, a Pro Bowl receiver for the Jets, is part of a team of developers planning to turn a 23-acre site in the South-Central neighborhood, abandoned since the city's 1992 riots, into a $53 million shopping center and commercial project. 
 "This will allow me to better understand who I am and where I came from," Johnson said today. "This will also give people a better idea that there's more to me than just football."
Taking a cue from Magic Johnson, the former Los Angeles Lakers star who has become a prominent urban developer, Keyshawn Johnson not only lent his name to the project, but also made what he calls a substantial investment. He would not say how much, but it is believed to be in the $250,000 to $500,000 range.
Johnson, who led Jets receivers in catches (83), yards (1,131) and touchdowns (10) last season, said he would be active as a developer only until July 29, when he reports to the Jets' summer training camp for his fourth season. He is working under a six-year, $16.5 million contract he signed after being the first player taken in the 1996 draft.
Johnson, 26, has been a proponent of City Councilman Mark Ridley-Thomas's pet project: returning professional football to Memorial Coliseum, where Johnson played for the University of Southern California. Johnson's agent and sports lawyer, Jerome Stanley, is also active in that drive. Ridley-Thomas presented the development proposal to Johnson and Stanley as a business and civic opportunity.
"This is a man who has done well professionally and returned to help revitalize his neighborhood that supported him and loved him," Ridley-Thomas said. "He is one of the emerging sports figures that is community-minded and sets an example for others with the capacity to invest."
Johnson said that there was nothing like this proposed development in the South-Central community, and that when he was approached to participate he made one demand.
"I just didn't want to be a token name, a celebrity from football," Johnson said. "I wanted to be involved from start to finish. I see what Magic has done. He's been a huge plus in me getting involved."
Magic Johnson has invested in movie theaters in several big cities, typically in underserved, black communities. He has expanded his efforts and, for example, is part owner of a Starbucks in Harlem.
Chris Hammond, one of Keyshawn Johnson's partners in the South-Central project, said the name recognition was critical to the project's success.
"It's difficult to attract tenants to a tough part of the inner city, there's a phobia for a long time here," said Hammond, the chairman of Capital Vision Equities and a partner with Katell Properties. "Keyshawn has given the project the notoriety it needs to get people to take a fresh look at the community. And he's got real money in this deal. I couldn't do this without him."
The development, which will be called Chesterfield Square, will be anchored by a 150,000-square-foot Home Depot and will include a major grocery store and a pharmacy, with a target date for opening of Christmas 2000.
It will be one and a half miles from the flash point of the 1992 riots and is the largest project to date of a $292 million economic redevelopment that followed the riots.
"I lived a half-mile from here," Johnson said, looking past a graffiti-lined fence along a railroad track that borders the property. "My aunt lives a couple blocks that way, right by that palm tree over there. This community is desperate for this type of center. We have a chance to bring jobs here.
"I could have invested in any community, but why not the one where I was born and raised? Why wouldn't I?"
Stanley said Johnson's involvement fit with a strategy to position Johnson as more than a football player. That includes the controversial book Johnson wrote after his rookie season, "Just Give Me the Damn Ball," as well as an upscale restaurant that Johnson and some partners opened six weeks ago in Beverly Hills called Reign.
"He pulled himself up by the bootstraps from urban America," Stanley said, adding: "He's seen his neighborhood burned and scarred by riots. It would have been easy for him to invest in high-tech mutual funds, but it makes more sense to invest in his community."
Johnson insisted that business demands would not interfere with football.
"My life now is like two acts, football and nonfootball, and at the end of the month I go back to football," he said. "My focus will shift to New York and football takes over until, let's say, February. Then it's back to this business."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Keyshawn Johnson at the site of a retail development in South-Central Los Angeles in which he is an investor. (Sam Mircovich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS KEYSHAWN JOHNSON (98%); NEW YORK JETS (94%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (56%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (56%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); SPORTS (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); SPORTS BUSINESS (74%); ATHLETES (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); RIOTS (71%); 

PERSON: GURNICK, KEN; JOHNSON, KEYSHAWN EARVIN 'MAGIC' JOHNSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



492 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1711 words

HEADLINE: Cubans Now Choosing Smugglers Over Rafts

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 20

 BODY:
They used to be called balseros Spanish for "rafters" -- after the rickety crafts of plywood, inner tubes and empty oil drums they launched from the beaches of Cuba, praying that the homemade boats would hold together long enough to cross the treacherous Florida Straits.
They struggled ashore in the Florida Keys, at Palm Beach and on barrier islands in between, sunburned, half starved, dehydrated, telling stories of circling sharks and loved ones who vanished when their crafts came apart in the waves. In Miami, there are monuments to the ones who just disappeared. 
 Others, like Ray Dieppa, piled into fishing boats crowded with sick, terrified adults and sobbing children, and pushed off into uncertainty. Mr. Dieppa remembers gazing into the pitch-black night, almost 20 years ago, and wondering if he would ever see the United States.
"I am against the communist regime," he said, when asked why he had risked that passage.
It has not been that simple for a long time.
In the heaviest exodus since President Fidel Castro allowed 33,000 people to leave Cuba in 1994, more than 1,500 Cubans have made it ashore in South Florida so far this year. But increasingly, United States Coast Guard officials say, the Cubans are making their passage not on rafts or in fishing vessels but in the boats of smugglers, who bring them in close enough to swim ashore or launch a small dinghy.
The cost: as much as $8,000 per person.
In the same period, more than 1,000 Cubans have been stopped at sea and forced to return to their homeland in compliance with the so-called "wet-foot, dry-foot" policy that President Clinton put in place after the 1994 exodus. That policy allows Cubans who make it to United States shores to apply, ultimately, for asylum, but sends those picked up at sea back to Cuba. In all of 1998, 1,047 Cubans were stopped by the Coast Guard.
The policy, part of an agreement with President Castro to halt the 1994 exodus, has led to high drama at sea and on the beaches of South Florida, as Cubans try almost anything, including threatened self-immolation and suicide, to hold off the Coast Guard long enough to put at least a foot on dry sand.
"We had an incident a month ago in which a woman threatened to drown her baby if the Coast Guard crew members came closer," said Glenn Rosenholm, assistant district public affairs officer for the Coast Guard.
"This is not normal, not usual," Mr. Rosenholm said. "These are very, very volatile situations."

Increasing Poverty And Desperation
Life in Cuba has become increasingly difficult, because of both poverty and politics, recent arrivals say, so people are more desperate to flee.
Jose Martinez, 34, was one of the lucky ones. He reluctantly conceded that he was smuggled into South Florida in October with six others, for $8,000 each. But he does not apologize for doing anything that he could to leave Cuba.
Mr. Martinez said he and his relatives lived in a deteriorating house, without running water, in a neighborhood where, he said, informants turned in people who spoke against the Government, and sometimes even those who did not.
The story is well-worn in Cuban Miami, repeated with every boatload.
When he recalls life in Cuba, Mr. Martinez said, "I feel like crying."
It is no wonder, he and Cuban-Americans here say, that people will do almost anything to leave their island and cannot meekly accept being sent back, especially when they are in sight of land.
In the past few weeks, confrontations between the Coast Guard and the people they stop at sea and turn back have turned ugly.
Earlier this month, a Cuban doused himself, his boat and others in it with gasoline and threatened to set everyone on fire if the Coast Guard did not let him reach shore.
In the past two weeks, two groups of Cubans in small boats have jumped into the water, some miles from shore, instead of giving up to the Coast Guard.
On Friday, several men jumped into the water off Islamorada in the Florida Keys, saying they would rather drown than be sent back. They had to be rescued by Coast Guardsmen.
"They know they have to make it to land," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. "When they're getting this close, they're desperate. We can expect desperate people to do desperate things."
In just one day this past weekend, 56 Cubans made it ashore, some posing for photographs before heading to what has usually been a temporary detention with the immigration service. In the same 24-hour period, 24 Cubans were stopped at sea, some in sight of land, and sent home.
The most publicized landfall came on June 29 just off Surfside, north of Miami Beach, when six Cubans on a small boat were blasted by a Coast Guard water cannon as news helicopter thundered overhead, broadcasting live footage of the drama to Miami television stations, which interrupted afternoon soap operas with the story.
As the men tried to swim the 200 yards to shore, Coast Guardsmen shot pepper spray into their faces, as the cameras rolled and hundreds gathered on the beach, cheering the swimmers on. Two Cubans made it ashore, one running between the police before diving onto the sand.
A demonstration soon blocked a main causeway from Miami to Miami Beach, and more than 1,000 demonstrators marched on the adjacent Coast Guard office, chanting "Assassins!." As traffic jammed, Coast Guard officials relented, allowing the four other Cubans, who had been picked up in the water, to seek political asylum.
Less than a day later, all six were released from custody and were on the streets of Miami, being feted. On Independence Day, they shared a seafood dinner with Miami's Mayor, Joe Carollo.
 
Sympathy Still Won Despite New Method
As the six were being greeted as heroes against communism, the United States Border Patrol questioned why the men, who said they had rowed all the way from Cuba on a 14-foot boat, had shown no signs of dehydration or exposure, and their hands had no splinters or calluses.
Less than a week after they landed, a Miami artist fashioned a sculpture of a man diving for the sand and freedom as two police officers closed in. It was erected on the site of the Surfside confrontation.
"People are more sympathetic to the Cubans that arrive by themselves, struggling with a raft, than Cubans who arrive with a suntan and well-fed," said Jaime Suchlicki, director of the Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies at the University of Miami.
But that is not a major issue in a Cuban American-dominated Miami, Mr. Suchlicki said.
Some, including a Cuban doctor who recently made it to Florida grimy and exhausted, are still coming the old-fashioned way, on their own boats. But while the ones who pay smugglers to deliver them are not regarded with quite the same hero status as those who made it on their own, there is little condemnation of them here in the Cuban community, where the hatred of Mr. Castro colors everything.
In fact, immigration officials say, the one-time rafters who came here years ago are largely financing the new wave of migrants.
Elena Freyre, executive director of the Miami office of the Cuban Committee for Democracy, said Cuban-Americans in Miami were largely footing the bill for this new migration, paying the smugglers to bring their relatives from Cuba. Most of the smugglers are probably of Cuban descent, Ms. Freyre said.
Some new arrivals have said they paid their own way, having saved for years.
And while many Cuban-Americans may still refer to them as balseros, they sometimes do so with a smile.
Mr. Dieppa said that it was wrong for the smugglers to make money off such suffering, but that he, like many others here, would accept what they saw as a lesser evil.
"If my family could afford it, I would want them to try," said Mr. Dieppa, now an editor at a South Florida television station, who still has family in Cuba.
Just because smugglers are bringing them in, it is no guarantee of a safe trip, Mr. Martinez said.
While some here in Miami wonder if the steady trickle of Cubans is a sign of another exodus like in 1994, experts on Cuban immigration say they doubt if it will get that large.
"This will die," Mr. Suchlicki said. "I don't think it's a permanent situation. It has to do with the toughening political situation."
 
A Growing Reaction To Lost Freedoms
The present exodus is also attributed to a general feeling that small freedoms won after Pope John Paul II's visit to Cuba last year have been taken away. Small business, vendors and even prostitutes have been forced to close up shop and every boat of refugees brings another story of increasing punishment and tightening Government control.
Another mass exodus can only come with Mr. Castro's blessing, said Steve Schnably, professor of International Law at the University of Miami. "If he makes it clear at any time that people can just leave the island, then you will have an exodus," Mr. Schnably said.
Cuba has already moved to quash the exodus, according to the state-controlled newspaper Granma, which said in an editorial: "Every desire to leave the country by safe and legal means will be permitted. Attempts by illegal means will categorically not be allowed."
Experts on immigration say the United States policy almost guarantees future altercations at sea, not only with the Cubans but also with Haitians who are still trying to make the sea passage to Florida. The Haitian economy is in shambles, and people there are, if anything, worse off than the Cubans, Haitian advocates said.
As for Cuban advocates in Miami, the once white-hot reaction to the Coast Guard's actions has cooled in the past few weeks.
"The Coast Guard is trapped in a difficult situation," said Ramon Saul Sanchez, a delegate with Movimiento Democracia in Miami, an anti-Castro group. But, Mr. Sanchez said, "the politics of applying migration laws have to be revised to become more humane."
In Miami, though, all the blame for most things sad and Cuban ultimately ends up at Mr. Castro's foot.
As long as he rules, said Ninoska Perez, a spokeswoman for the Cuban American National Foundation, the balseros will keep coming.
"A dictator of 40 years," she said, "does not change."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cubans caught while fleeing earlier this month were returned to Cuba on a Coast Guard boat on Friday. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); People gathered on the beach off Surfside, Fla., on June 29, as a rafter made it ashore after dodging a water cannon and pepper spray fired by Coast Guardsmen. President Clinton condemned the Coast Guard action. (Nuri Vallbona/Miami Herald)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COAST GUARD (US) PALM BEACH HOTEL (57%); US COAST GUARD (82%); US COAST GUARD (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COAST GUARD (US) US COAST GUARD (82%); US COAST GUARD (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); BOATS AND BOATING; SMUGGLING; RAFTS BEACHES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); STARVATION (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICS (72%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (70%); IMMIGRATION (67%); REFUGEES (64%); SUICIDE (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK BILL CLINTON (70%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999



493 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 2; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1824 words

HEADLINE: Living the 8-Bit Dream in a 32-Bit World

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

 BODY:
AS a mathematician at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Steve Judd harnesses the power of Unix work stations and Cray supercomputers to detect and prevent the proliferation of chemical and biological weapons.
When he goes home, he basks in the light of his 15-year-old Commodore computer, a one-megahertz machine with 64 kilobytes of RAM. It can move chunks of data in the same size packages as a Nintendo Game Boy and has 3 percent of the memory capacity of a Palm III organizer. 
 Mr. Judd creates three-dimensional graphics on his obsolete Commodore and calls it a real programming challenge. "It's like building a radio from scratch," he said. "You are designing from the most fundamental level. You have to take advantage of every ounce of the computer."
Fender Tucker, who runs a Commodore software company called Loadstar, said, "Commodores are for people who aren't all that sure that the computer revolution has made our lives better."
Thousands of people appear to have turned to old computers (or stuck with them) out of a feeling of nostalgia, a desire for simplicity and an appreciation for classic design. In the realm of digital machines, where today's computer is out of date tomorrow, there can be great satisfaction in taking a digital Model T out for a spin.
Douglas Cotton, editor of Commodore World magazine, estimates that a million Commodores are still in service around the world. Their owners include people who remember their first computers more fondly than their first girlfriends (most users are men), as well as people who have handed them down to their children or have set up miniature computer museums in their basements, much to the dismay of their wives.
And it's not only the Commodore. Old Apple computers and Sinclair Spectrums are also popular.
"Some people like to drive classic cars, like the 60's-era Mustang or the original Beetle," said Scott Gamon, 24, who still uses an Apple II GS. "I think the main reason is that the cars are classic vehicles that made history. The Apple II computer is the same in the computer world."
Some owners are active users of the old computers, and some participate in international programming competitions. These are not people who can't afford a new computer or don't know how to use them. Many actually own up-to-date computers that are hundreds of times as fast and much more powerful than their old ones, but they keep their eight-bit machines around to remind them how they started with computers.
"If I didn't buy that machine with my paper-route money when I was 11, I likely wouldn't have gotten into computers, a university scholarship and a decent-paying job," said Robyn Harbron of Thunder Bay, Ontario.
Mr. Cotton, who is also technical director of Creative Micro Designs, a Commodore hardware company, said, "We have a number of people who have called us up saying, 'Windows is nice for work, but I miss that old Commodore.' "
A number of fans of eight-bit machines are sophisticated programmers who praise the computers' timeless elegance and efficiency. "You don't say Mozart, Shakespeare or van Gogh are good for their time," Mr. Judd said. "They are just plain good. I make the claim for the Commodore 64."
All software, whether Windows 98 or Lotus Notes or Doom, is based on simple mathematical calculations like addition and multiplication. Computers express information in binary numbers; each digit is a 0 or a 1, and each place is a power of 2. Eight-bit computers handle data in binary numbers that have eight digits. For large calculations, an eight-bit computer has to break down the problem into simpler pieces, and that is one factor that makes eight-bit computers slow, compared with modern 32-bit machines.
But the biggest reason for the sluggishness is that those old computer chips did not have many transistors, or switches, and the transistors they did have were far apart, lengthening the paths signals had to travel. Modern chips pack transistors tightly together to speed up processing times. In addition, internal clocks, which provide the heartbeat for computer instructions, are several hundred times faster in today's PCs than in yesterday's eight-bit computers.
Many users insist that the eight-bit classics are on the verge of becoming collectibles. Searches on auction sites like Ebay unearth hundreds of items in the classic realm, like floppy disks, printers and actual computers, for generally low prices.
Proponents of trailing-edge technology have their own magazines, conventions, weekly on-line discussions, Web sites and newsletters. In Europe, dozens of programmers meet regularly for competition parties, where they see who can stretch the capacities of the eight-bit computers the furthest. Some are on a crusade, contending that the old computers should be preserved for posterity. The Vintage Technology Center, a computer nostalgia group in Santa Clara, Calif., recently announced plans to build a supercomputer out of Commodore 64's. "Sixty-four 64's" is its motto.
All of that would be mere nostalgia, or a hobby like collecting Pez memorabilia, except that the eight-bit die-hards actually use their computers. In a sense, their devotion to the simple machines is an active refutation of the Wintel world of quick obsolescence that frustrates many computer users.
In the early days, programmers looked for creative software solutions instead of glitzier hardware. "In a way it was simpler back then," said Lane Denson, a Nashville farmer who has set up a computer museum in his basement. "You didn't have 20 or 30 sound cards and you didn't have to worry about upgrading every other week."
At a time when mega, giga and tetra are the popular prefixes, the software available for the kilobyte clunkers is surprisingly sophisticated. Commodore users can send faxes via modems, use laser printers and use a mouse to maneuver through an operating system that looks a lot like Windows. And their computers can act as hosts for Web pages. Accessories that increase the capacities of the old machines are also available, including one that speeds them up by a factor of 20.
Maurice Randall, who has an auto repair shop in Charlotte, Mich., uses his Commodore for all facets of daily computing, for things like designing newsletters and writing HTML pages. "If you don't need to do a lot of high-powered graphical work, they're perfect," Mr. Randall said. "They don't crash. They don't have viruses, and they don't break down as often."
The most popular eight-bit computers are the Commodore 64, of which 20 million units were sold from 1982 to 1992; the Sinclair ZX Spectrum, which was the most popular computer in Britain in the mid-1980's, and the Apple II line, which went on the market in 1977 and became immensely popular for its educational software. Production had stopped for all these models by the early 1990's because of pressure from the I.B.M. compatibles.
Now as then, the various computer camps are fierce rivals. European Spectrum fans periodically invade on-line discussion groups of Commodore users, and vice versa -- each group engaging in the electronic equivalent of nose-thumbing.
"You can talk about my mom all you want, but don't insult my computer," Mr. Judd said.
Many programmers insist that the limits of the old machines force programmers to be more resourceful. Many of them, like Mr. Randall, who spends 40 to 50 hours each week programming, write in assembly code, the most fundamental programming language, because it takes up less space than higher-level languages.
"Using assembly language, I can make the code real tight and small on a Commodore," Mr. Randall said. The program he uses to send faxes via modem is only 56 kilobytes in size. His software releases, including a fax program and an updated operating system that looks much like Windows, earn him more than $20,000 a year.
For some, eight-bit programming represents a return to computing as a personal experience and a move away from being a technodrone in an information economy. "Before, it was very much discovering and experimenting for your own benefit," said Mark Lair, 40, of Dallas. "Now we're in a service industry. Most of us programmers are providing for other people rather than ourselves."
But others acknowledge that there is not a high demand for eight-bit programmers. "Yes, I'm a Sinclair fan, but to earn a living, I need to remain up to date in a rapidly evolving industry," said Richard Jordan, 26, a programmer in Britain who owns several Spectrums.
Eight-bit computers draw their biggest chunk of fans because of the classic video games they play. Fans say the older games, unadorned by fancy graphics and sound effects, focused more on game play. The result, they contend, was games that transcend their technological simplicity.
A few times each month, Jeff Lewis, 35, goes into his basement to play some of the hundreds of Commodore 64 games he has accumulated. His wife, Dianna, refers to the computer, which is still connected to a working dot-matrix printer, as a "Commodore shrine." "She actually thinks I'm kind of nuts for keeping it up," said Mr. Lewis, who lives in a suburb of Cleveland. "I just tell her it's part of my childhood."
For all those who actually own old computers, there are hundreds of thousands more who pretend that they do by using a generation of emulators, which allow the 32-bit PC's to imitate primitive Commodores, Spectrums and Apples. Thousands of old games are available for downloading on the Web.
Despite the number of eight-bit admirers, the most dedicated enthusiasts sometimes bemoan the skewed demographics of their ranks. Oyvind Vevang, 20, of Haugesund, Norway, meets many friends though a common interest in classic video games, but they are almost all male. Mr. Vevang lamented, "If more girls were interested in this, I'd have one hell of a pickup trick!"
 
Site-Seeing: Oldies
Finding Them
 
If you want vintage computers or their components, there are several Web sites where you can investigate and purchase items. Here are a few:
 
CREATIVE MICRO DESIGN: www.cmdweb.com One of the largest Commodore hardware retailers, with a wide selection of computers, disk drives, software and devices.
 
READY ACCESS MEMORY: www.raminc
.com/ A specialist in Apple II and Macintosh hardware and accessories.
 
LOADSTAR: www.loadstar.com A distributor of new Commodore software to subscribers; publishes newsletter.
 
MAURICE RANDALL: people.delphi
.com/arca93/ A programmer who sells Commodore programs like fax software and an updated Windows-based interface.
 
COMMODORE EMULATOR: www
.fatal-design.com/ccs64/ Considered one of the best Windows-based Commodore 64 emulators (programs that mimic the 64 operating system).
 
SPECTRUM EMULATOR: www.philosys
.de/kunze/xzx/ One of the most complete Sinclair emulators for Windows, with excellent sound and graphics support.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The world of Commodore 64 fans includes Douglas Cotton, editor of Commodore World magazine and technical director of Creative Micro Designs. (Rob Kinmonth for The New York Times)(pg. G1); COMMODORE FAN -- Steve Judd uses state-of-the-art computers as a mathematician at Los Alamos National Laboratory, but he prefers a Commodore 64 at home. (Guy Ambrosino for The New York Times)(pg. G7)
 
Chart: "Commodore 64: Crunching With the Oldies"
The Commodore 64, first released in 1982, has maintained its popularity among a small group of dedicated users. Below is a comparison of the technical specifications for the original model alongside some more contemporary digital products.
 
PROCESSOR
Commodore 64: 8-bit
Nintendo Game Boy: 8-bit
Standard PC desktop: 32-bit
 
RANDOM ACCESS MEMORY
Commodore 64: 64 kilobytes
Palm III: 2,048 kilobytes (minimum)
 
CLOCK SPEED
Commodore 64:
1 megahertz
Standard PC desktop: 233 to 550 megahertz
 
MONITOR
Commodore: 16 colors
Standard PC video card: 65,536 colors
 
MUSCLE
Number of Commodore 64's it would take to get the processing strength and memory required
to run ...
MS-DOS: 15
Microsoft Word: 1,000
Lotus Notes: 4,000
(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (74%); 7974 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (74%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (74%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (74%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (74%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: APPLE COMPUTER INC; COMMODORE WORLD (MAGAZINE) APPLE INC (74%); NINTENDO CO LTD (57%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC; COMMODORE WORLD (MAGAZINE) LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); 

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8; COTTON, DOUGLAS STEVE JUDD (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



494 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 3; Circuits 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: SCREEN GRAB;
'Fearful Symmetry' Now in Pixels Bright

BYLINE: By SALLY McGRANE 

 BODY:
WILLIAM BLAKE, the British poet, painter, engraver and printmaker who died in 1827, has been called the first multimedia artist for his hand-produced books of elaborately illustrated poems. Students who study Blake in high school or college, however, seldom fully experience his work, reading texts that are accompanied by poor-quality reproductions of his artwork.
"You'll read Blake in an anthology and you'll get a typeset version of 'The Tyger' or 'The Lamb' that looks nothing like the original gorgeous, illuminated plates," said Matthew Kirschenbaum, a doctoral candidate at the University of Virginia. 
 Mr. Kirschenbaum and other scholars are out to change that, giving Blake's work a transfusion from the Internet. Two centuries after he printed them, Blake's illustrated poems are coming to life, in full color, in the on-line William Blake Archive (jefferson.village.virginia.edu /blake).
Blake is best known for his lyrical collection of short poems, "Songs of Innocence and of Experience." As with his other works, he printed each copy by hand and painted each individually using watercolors.
He called these books of poetry "illuminations" and produced in all 175 copies of 19 books, each with different colors, details and in some cases, different orderings of the poems. The actual books are often prohibitively expensive to reproduce.
The Web, however, is changing all that. The William Blake Archive has completed its first-phase goal of posting at least one copy of each of the first 18 of Blake's 19 books (the last book, "Jerusalem," has more than 100 plates and should be posted later this year).
The archivists plan to make a standard printed edition of Blake's works (with notes on the text) available on line before the end of the summer and will continue posting other copies of illuminated books through 2002, when the second phase of the project is to end. Plans for phase two also include posting 3,000 images that form the remaining one-third of Blake's body of work -- paintings, drawings, engravings, manuscripts and typographical works.
The William Blake Archive was born in 1995 when three of the country's top Blake scholars -- Morris Eaves of the University of Rochester, Robert Essick of the University of California at Riverside and Joseph Viscomi of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, along with John Unsworth, the director of the University of Virginia's Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities -- decided that Blake scholarship and electronic technology were each mature enough to create an electronic Blake resource.
The three editors had recently completed work on two printed volumes of Blake's work and had been frustrated by the limitations that the print medium imposed.
"There were economic constraints on print versions of Blake that the electronic medium would let us get around," Dr. Unsworth said.
With a grant for $250,000 for the first three years from the Getty Grant Program, the project got off the ground (it has since received support from Sun Microsystems, the Inso Corporation, the Paul Mellon Center for Studies in British Art and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill).
The Web is uniquely suited to dealing with the problems that Blake scholars have encountered in the past. The Internet is not subject to the space considerations that print books are, so it is possible to post as many different copies of a poem as exist.
"Because of the electronic editing, we can afford to reproduce 30 different versions of 'The Tyger,' " Dr. Eaves said.
Blake researchers can easily compare versions of the same poem, something that previously would have required trips to collections all over the United States and Britain. And the Web gives scholars a chance to compare them simultaneously.
Another remarkable feature of the archive is the ease with which textual or bibliographic searches can be conducted. Thanks to a special Java applet that the institute programmed for this project, it is also possible to search the archive for images. "Everything is searchable," said Mr. Viscomi. "You could look for sunflowers, lambs and birds that all appear on a plate."
The site, according to Mr. Kirschenbaum, receives between 425 and 450 visitors every day. "The site statistics spike for the first week of September and the first week of January," he said. "That's when Blake is usually taught in Romantics period courses. He's one of the early Romantics."
Mr. Kirschenbaum paused, then added, "He's also a good way to scare people off if your class is overenrolled."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A plate from "Europe: a Prophecy," will be available to Web surfers through The William Blake Archive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; POETRY AND POETS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET POETRY (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); PAINTING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: MCGRANE, SALLY; BLAKE, WILLIAM (1757-1827) CLARE SHORT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



495 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Cherubic Commando

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The new Prime Minister of Israel, Ehud Barak, stopped moving through a welcoming throng to ask me: "Do you remember what you told me after Bibi defeated Peres?"
Here it comes, I thought, another politician afflicted with total recall, rubbing my nose in one of those cockamamie predictions I make just to be provocative. 
 "You said it was good news for me. That if Peres had won, when my time came the Israeli voters would be tired of Labor. But with Bibi winning, I could be in a better position of challenging him in a few years. I never forgot that."
Yeah. I remember now. After the Likud's Bibi Netanyahu scored a stunning upset victory over Labor's Shimon Peres three years ago, I thought it would be good to buy some Ehud Barak stock at the low. So I interviewed him in his unbusy Foreign Ministry office and then gave him this cheer-up scenario:
If Labor had won in 1996, as Bill Clinton had fervently hoped, the dovish Peres would never have been able to persuade half of the Israelis that his dreamy deal with the Palestinians would provide security. With the right resolutely opposed, the peace process would founder.
But the victorious Netanyahu, I figured, would slow down the Oslo rush to give away almost all the West Bank before final-settlement talks. Then he would bring along the right, Nixon-to-China style, to buy a deal for a Palestinian state on half the West Bank. If Yasir Arafat balked, Bibi's hard-ish line would at least put the next Israeli government in position to negotiate a fairly secure peace.
That's how it seems to be working out. With "bad cop" Bibi gone, a large majority of Israelis can accept the risks that "good cop" Ehud is prepared to recommend.
What does this remembrance of predictions past reveal about the new Prime Minister? First, he sure knows how to butter up a right-wing American columnist. More important, he can get from a softened-up Clinton what his predecessor was denied.
Thus, we see him going home with a long-term switch of economic aid to military aid -- money to keep American arms production lines rolling and the Israeli armed forces with their qualitative edge. Obstruction to financing the Arrow anti-missile system will be removed. (The decision to choose F-16 fighters was Barak's; the more sophisticated F-15 costs too much to fly.)
And the same suggestion that Bibi made to fold the next salami slice of the West Bank into the final talks was no longer opposed by Clinton. It was for Arafat to reject, which he promptly did, making him look negative at a positive moment.
Barak also arranged for Clinton to be less of a buttinsky. The future U.S. role is to be facilitator, not mediator. Israel needs an ally more than a broker.
In that spirit, the White House is willing to help reopen talks with Syria, long a hotbed of terrorism and importer of missiles. Last time, a too-eager American Secretary of State was repeatedly insulted; if Hafez al-Assad makes Madeleine Albright cool her heels, she should return to a Damascus hotel and tell him to call her from the lobby.
Barak appears not to be making Yitzhak Rabin's mistake, which was to seek American troops on the Golan Heights. His idea seems to be a Syrian-Israeli arrangement of mutual monitoring joined by a team of international observers. If the aging Assad says, "Get off the Golan or else," Israel should choose else.
The new Prime Minister, a former commando who looks remarkably cherubic, made two mistakes in his debut. One was saying "We do not intend to drag our feet for another three years," which sounded like a gratuitous shot at a predecessor whose necessary corrective made possible Barak's current lionization in Washington. He disclaims any such intent, but it delighted doves and mars his unity pitch.
The other mistake was to select 15 months as his deadline for final agreement. Why the odd number? Why not a year, or 18 months, or no deadline at all? It puts all the pressure on an agreement made two weeks before the U.S. election, presumably when campaigning Democrats -- most of all Hillary Clinton -- will be panting for peacemaking handshakes on the White House lawn. Scheduling an "October surprise" is too clever by half.
Otherwise, his debut as P.M. here went well. Fancy his remembering that sage cheering-up. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); OSLO, NORWAY (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PALESTINIANS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); TRENDS (67%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) EHUD BARAK (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SHIMON PERES (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



496 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO RISES FURTHER. The euro climbed after a report showed German construction orders rose in May, suggesting European growth is reviving. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0530, up from $1.0413 on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the dollar to the euro, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); EURO (90%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



497 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Rebels Without a Cause

BYLINE: By David Brooks; David Brooks is a senior editor at The Weekly Standard.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Some days it is impossible to understand American politics unless you remember that while most politicians are lovable, they are also breathtakingly self-absorbed. The people who choose such a miserable life style in the first place tend to have an insatiable desire to dominate every room they enter. And when they come to Washington, they enter a work environment that only further magnifies their self-importance.
All day people come to them ladling flattery. Lobbyists come looking for favors. Television cameras come looking for bon mots. Constituents come looking for celebrity. Politicians walk around Capitol Hill surrounded by aides who hover so solicitously that they look like a Motown group: Look, there go Senator Jones and the Deference Brothers. 
 The politician's task is to absorb infinite amounts of praise and to talk about his or her own wonderful attributes without shame. It's no wonder so many come to regard themselves as queen bees. And it's always thrilling to find a politician who thinks and talks like a normal human being -- who can go five minutes without steering the conversation back to the ever-fascinating subject of his or her grand career.
Washington's culture of political aggrandizement helps explain two recent defections from the Republican Party. Senator Robert C. Smith of New Hampshire has announced that he is dropping out of the Republican Presidential race in order to mount an independent bid for the White House. Representative Michael Forbes of New York has left the party to become a Democrat.
Now, there is such a thing as an honorable defection. This happens to people who gradually change their views or who come to find their own opinions are utterly alien to those on their side of the aisle. In 1971, John Lindsay, Mayor of New York, left the Republican Party for the Democratic Party. And he was right to do so, because his ideas were genuinely Democratic. But the defections by Mr. Smith and Mr. Forbes were not defections of conviction. They were defections of monumental vanity.
Mr. Smith is pro-life. He wants to cut taxes and Federal spending. He opposes most gun-control legislation. These are all orthodox Republican positions. His third-party run will scarcely advance any ideas that will not also be found in the Republican platform.
Mr. Smith isn't quitting because his ideas are anathema to the Republicans. He is quitting because few Republican voters -- including those in his home state -- take his Presidential bid seriously, so he's trying to dress up this personal repudiation as some heroic rift over principle.
Mr. Smith has defended himself by saying the Republican establishment doesn't push conservative ideas as vigorously as he would like. But it has tried. If there is one thing that recent elections -- and Mr. Smith's own subatomic poll ratings -- prove, it is that candidates as aggressively conservative as Bob Smith do not win national elections. Does he really think a major party should commit political suicide simply so it can be more like him?
Now consider Michael Forbes. If Mr. Smith's pretext for defecting was that the Republican Party had become too moderate, Mr. Forbes's was that it had become too conservative. To the extent that his beliefs can be pinned down at all, Mr. Forbes is a moderate Republican. He voted to impeach President Clinton. He is anti-abortion (for now). According to an analysis done by the National Journal magazine, Mr. Forbes is in the center on economic matters, slightly right of center on social matters and solidly conservative on defense spending and other national security issues.
Remember, this is a man who rode into office on the great Republican tide of 1994. When people like Newt Gingrich were leading the party, he was a loyal champion of the Contract With America. He ran for Congress vowing to cut the Federal Government by 10 percent, which is more radical than anything the Republican leadership now proposes. But now that the party's leaders include people like Dennis Hastert and George W. Bush, suddenly the party is, in his words, "angry, narrow-minded, intolerant, uncaring."
Please. The moderate Republicans are riding higher now that at any time in the past two decades. If ever there was a time when Mr. Forbes could pull the party in his direction, this is it.
Instead, both Mr. Smith and Mr. Forbes have manipulated minor political differences in order to thrust themselves center stage. But then, this is the era of the self-absorbed. For some, traits like party loyalty and gratitude are never allowed to get in the way of the epic personal drama that exists in a politician's own mind. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LOBBYING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); GUN CONTROL (60%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERT C (SEN); FORBES, MICHAEL P (REPR) MICHAEL P FORBES (67%); ROBERT C SMITH (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



498 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Construction Dropped 5.6% in June

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21

 BODY:
Construction of new homes and apartments, pinched by rising mortgage rates and shortages of skilled workers and some building materials, plunged in June to the lowest level in more than a year, the Government said today.
The Commerce Department reported that work began on 1.57 million units last month at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, a drop of 5.6 percent from May. June's activity, while still brisk, was the lowest since 1.54 million units in May 1998. 
 The overall decline in June reflected an 8.7 percent drop in the construction of single-family homes, offsetting a 10 percent rise in apartment construction. New-home construction was down or flat in most parts of the country.
The report comes as home builders are voicing concerns about rising interest rates and shortages of skilled construction workers and building materials, said Michael Carliner, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders.
Mortgage rates have been creeping up for two months. This year, the rate for a 30-year mortgage hit a low of 6.74 percent at the end of January and a high of 7.71 percent earlier this month.
"Higher mortgage rates have curbed the housing sector," said Karen Dexter, an economist at Merrill Lynch.
Looking forward, she said: "We believe housing activity will stabilize at about current levels in the second half of the year. For overall economic growth, housing, which has been a strong contributor, will be neutral."
At the end of last year and the beginning of this year, new-home construction was at levels too high to be sustained, Mr. Carliner said. He said that he expected activity to slow and that housing starts would remain at or below 1.5 million units by the end of the year, which would still be considered a healthy level.
Economists said the new-home construction report could be seen as further evidence that one of the economy's strongest sectors is beginning to slow, reducing the chances that the Federal Reserve will again raise interest rates next month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (55%); MER (NYSE) (55%); 8675 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); APARTMENT HOUSES; HOUSING STARTS; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES CONSTRUCTION (96%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (93%); HOUSING STARTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL CARLINER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



499 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Let's Not Get Too Wired

BYLINE: By Edward Tenner; Edward Tenner is a visiting researcher in the geosciences department at Princeton and the author of "Why Things Bite Back."

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
The Commerce Department has just reported that 67 percent of Americans still do not use the Internet. Even 38 percent of households with personal computers don't have an Internet connection.
Is this bad news? It certainly can look that way. African-American and Hispanic households are much less likely to have access to the World Wide Web than white or Asian-American households. The big cities in the Northeast are significantly less connected than those in the West. The report concludes that the gap between the already-wired haves and the less-connected have-nots is turning a "digital divide" into a "racial ravine."
Few will argue with the report's concern about this gap, and with the call for expanded access to the Web in schools, libraries and other public places. (It may be time to throw in some new books, too.) But the document implies more. It suggests -- though it never quite says directly -- that everybody should be on the Web, just as nearly everybody is on the telephone network. 
 But does everybody want to be? Nonusers and occasional users have rational grounds for skepticism. A survey included in the report found that 40 percent of all respondents were "very concerned" about confidentiality on the Internet. People regularly give up Internet connections because of expense or disappointment -- "temporary" files accumulate on hard drives if not removed, innocuous search queries land the user at a pornographic link, malicious programs are outpacing anti-virus software, and so on.
In fact, there are hints that users of public terminals may actually enjoy computing most. Douglas Rushkoff, the cyberculture journalist, has reported that a survey by some of his students at New York University found that only half of the children at private elementary schools (students who were required to have their own laptop computers) were happy about computing, while their public school counterparts (who mostly used school equipment) were uniformly enthusiastic about it. For these public school students, computer sessions are treats, not encumbrances. Somebody else maintains the hardware and software.
Regular users of the Web should heed this and learn to appreciate the nonwired and occasional user, for several reasons. For example, these holdouts prod the computer industry into cutting profit margins and lowering prices for connections. If a personal Internet link really became as ubiquitous and as necessary as the telephone, the drive for new business would stop, and providers might seek growth in higher charges or more intrusive on-line advertising instead.
Also, if everyone were on the Web, the rest of cultural life, although it would not evaporate, could certainly be impaired. Book sales have already slumped even though the economy has surged and on-line bookselling has exploded. Independent and small-chain bookstores are folding. Compressed on-line music formats may displace some higher-quality CD's. Internet holdouts help protect intellectual variety and choice in such areas.
Paradoxically, the unconnected also benefit on-line shoppers. They help maintain the retail outlets and catalogues that are valued as alternatives (and as printed and physical showrooms) even by many of those who would rather fill electronic shopping carts. You might order your new car on line, but you'd probably swing by the local showroom to get a look first. And the sales taxes paid by patrons of local retailers are helping to buy more time for the exemption still enjoyed by on-line buyers. Universal service would almost surely mean farewell to the free ride.
But the biggest benefit from the Internet holdouts is not what they consume but what they save: energy. In "Earth in the Balance," Al Gore celebrated the potential of a future national computer network to help spare the environment through telecommuting. Now we have wide access to the Internet, yet consumption of electricity continues to rise as electronic devices multiply. Some scientists, unconvinced that reserves are growing as reported, predict new petroleum shortages within a decade. If so, the Web's contribution to the energy load will compound them.
Today's personal computers are thermally as well as metaphorically hot. My now-antique 1993 P.C. is rated at 150 watts; its 1999 Pentium III successor has a power supply for 200 watts.
And that's without the monitor. Add another 120 to 140 watts for a 17-inch screen. (By the way, Windows 98 supports two active monitors with one computer.) A deluxe speaker system may have its own power supply, plus a powered subwoofer. A laser printer is increasingly a must. High-speed connections, riveting action games and fixed-rate service also encourage users to keep their computers fired up longer than in pre-Internet days. As in a casino, time can lose meaning on the Web.
Thanks to all that cruising, the servers and routers that harbor Web sites and distribute data -- and the factories that make the chips -- use energy prodigiously. Writing recently in Forbes, Peter Huber has estimated that it takes "about 1 pound of coal to create, package, store and move 2 megabytes of data" and that computer-related demand already consumes 13 percent of America's electricity.
Internet enthusiasts should consider what would happen to their utility bills if most nonusers jumped onto the Internet just as new generations of chips arrive, running hotter than ever. During the summer, the extra heat would be pumped into city streets by air-conditioners, supercharging the local microclimate as well as contributing to global greenhouse gases; we would demand still more cooling, until cities and even regions faced the likelihood of blackouts.
So Web users ought to count their blessings, think of the money they're saving with their on-line purchases, support a balanced program of information access for all Americans -- and take a Luddite to lunch.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Erik Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (91%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); BOOKSTORES (88%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); ANTIVIRUS SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: TENNER, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



500 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
The CasinoEffect in Asian Stock Markets

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, July 21

 BODY:
In one of Southeast Asia's perplexing riddles, investors keep plowing money into the region's stock markets even as governments dither over the urgent financial and regulatory overhauls many of them promised in the wake of the economic crisis that began two years ago.
Asian markets are soaring despite a widely held view among financial experts that the collusion, corruption and financial bungling that contributed to Asia's troubles have merely been diluted, not eradicated. 
 Many of the same economists, bankers and investors say that the market recovery has helped lull the region into complacency about the need for more politically distasteful economic medicine.
But a closer look at which investors are driving the recovery in Asian stocks and what kind of markets they have created suggests that the rally is not as unlikely as it seems. Some say that the soaring Asian equity markets are not a vote of economic confidence, but rather a symptom of continuing financial gridlock that has turned these markets into corporate casinos for skeptical Asian savers and skittish Asian banks.
While higher stock prices may ultimately help companies raise cash and strengthen their balance sheets, some economists say that the rally represents a false dawn -- one that has yet to convince foreign investors.
Reorganization is crucial to having a long-term recovery, says Bernhard Eschweiler, head of economic research at Morgan Guaranty Trust.
And the big gains in Asian stock indexes are helping to obscure just how much value corporate Asia has lost. Indonesia's benchmark stock index, for example, has risen by 61 percent so far this year, almost back to where it was before the crisis began late in 1997. That sounds terrific until the decline in Indonesia's currency is factored in, which makes the stock market there worth only about half as much in United States dollars as it was two years ago.
The same goes for Malaysia -- despite a 43 percent rise by its benchmark stock index this year.
Economic considerations aside, some say that the latest rally makes sense if only from the standpoint of accounting for currency devaluations -- a sort of inflation adjustment by fund managers rejiggering their global portfolios so they more closely mimic the relative size and growth potential of economies. Others assume that new wealth being created in United States stock markets is finding its way to Asia as investors seek to diversify their holdings.
But data suggest that the opposite has been taking place. Since the crisis started, investors have withdrawn an estimated $1.77 billion from American mutual funds investing in Asian markets other than Japan, according to Lipper Inc. And while those funds have grown by 44 percent so far this year as markets swelled, they have only half as much money invested in the region as they did when the crisis started. The world's biggest pool of capital -- the United States -- does not appear to be unambiguously behind the Asian rally.
That may be changing. Lipper says investors pumped an estimated $380 million into those Asian funds last month, the biggest monthly inflow in more than two years. And Asia's economies, reforming or not, are showing signs that they are recovering. Inflation is under control, interest rates are falling, exports are rising, and Asians are saving more than they spend.
So why haven't foreign investors been moving into the region more aggressively? Analysts and fund managers say it is largely because United States stocks are doing too well to risk putting money into economies that are still under renovation.
"It's still not fashionable yet to be looking at opportunities offshore," says Dominic Armstrong, head of Malaysia and Singapore research at ABN Amro Asia Ltd.
At the same time, however, Asia's savers are giving banks a growing pile of deposits that they either cannot afford to lend or that companies are too indebted to borrow. Brokers say that a lot of that money is ending up in regional stock markets for lack of a better place to go. Joining it are small, local investors eager to make a quick profit on the surge in stocks.
"It's the old-fashioned gambling mentality," says Hugh Young, managing director at Aberdeen Asset Management. "The consumer is still quite nervous, but is quite happy to pump the market."
Brokers and economists point to Malaysia as a prime illustration. Foreigners are reluctant to put money into a market where the Government will tax them up to 30 percent for funds they withdraw within a year of investing them. Instead, the market's gains are being driven primarily by local investors, they say -- in some ways the very type of short-term "hot money" that Malaysia had hoped to discourage by imposing currency controls last September.
"The casino element is taking over," said William Belchere, head of fixed-income research and strategy at Merrill Lynch International Bank Ltd.
That much is evident from statistics measuring the volatility of Asia's markets. Trading in Kuala Lumpur has nearly quadrupled, compared with its level at the start of the crisis. At the same time, the market is twice as volatile as it was two years ago. Bangkok's stock market is almost as turbulent now as it was in the uncertain days before the Thai baht was devalued in July 1997. And Jakarta's stock market yo-yo's more than any of the others.
Asian markets are, of course, minuscule compared with the New York Stock Exchange, so it takes a lot less money to move them. Nevertheless, the amount of local money pouring into these markets has important implications for economic recovery, experts say, since it demonstrates that despite Asia's difficulties, the region is sitting on sizable amounts of investor capital.
"It's a frightening indication of how much cash there is in Asia," Mr. Armstrong of ABN Amro said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: Asian markets may be recovering, but foreign investors have only recently started buying.
 
Stock market performance of major indexes this year
Indonesia -- +61.07%
Singapore -- +50.59%
Malaysia -- +42.74%
Thailand -- +39.64%
Hong Kong -- +33.55%
 
Graph also tracks net flows this year at mutual funds that invest in Asian countries.*
 
*Estimates, excluding Japan
 
(Sources: Lipper Analytics; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (60%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); CURRENCIES (74%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



501 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Bear Stearns Income Is Up, As Fees GrowFrom Trading

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Bear Stearns Companies said yesterday that profit in its most recent quarter rose 56 percent, to a record, as a stock market rally and a comeback in mortgage bonds lifted trading and commission revenue.
Net income rose to $269.1 million, or $1.85 a diluted share, in the period, which ended June 30 and was the fourth quarter of the company's fiscal year. Analysts expected the company to earn $1.44 a share, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. 
 A year earlier, Bear Stearns earned $172.3 million, or $1.18 a share. The period a year earlier included a pretax charge of $108 million related to litigation involving the defunct brokerage firm A. R. Baron. The special charge amounted to 42 cents a share, and taking that into account profit was up 15.6 percent in the 1999 quarter.
Revenue net of interest expense rose 24 percent, to $1.5 billion.
Shares of Bear Stearns fell 6.25 cents yesterday, to $43.6875.
The profit at Bear Stearns mirrored that of its Wall Street rivals as rising stocks and relatively low interest rates in the quarter encouraged investors to buy securities and supported a boom in mergers.
Return on equity, an important measure of profitability, was 29 percent in the quarter, among the highest on Wall Street and topping the 25.4 percent posted by Merrill Lynch & Company. The Bear Stearns figure was 21.8 percent a year earlier and 23.7 percent in the third quarter, which ended March 31.
Trading revenue rose 45 percent, to a record $712.8 million, helped by activity in the derivatives and mortgage-backed and high-yield bond markets.
Commissions rose 18 percent, to $273.3 million, amid a 31 percent surge in average daily trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange. The more active trading also helped the securities-processing business of Bear Stearns, the largest such operation in the United States.
The firm arranged $1.63 billion of stock offerings during the quarter, up 58 percent from a year earlier. Fees for stock issues are double those of bond offerings.
Bear Stearns also advised on $29.5 billion of mergers during the quarter, up from $24 billion in the quarter a year earlier. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS (BSC) BEAR STEARNS COS INC (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); FIRST CALL CORP (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS COS (BSC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); LITIGATION (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



502 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley's Own Work Threatens ItsDomination

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif., July 21

 BODY:
"Don't look back," the legendary baseball pitcher Satchel Paige once said. "Something might be gaining on you."
The truth of that warning was driven home today to a group of Silicon Valley business and civic leaders when a survey they had commissioned showed that the booming Internet economy is decentralizing technology industries and threatening Silicon Valley's domination of all things digital. 
 The group, Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network, said its survey showed that Internet companies -- and the economic growth they reap -- are expanding rapidly in seven regions outside of the Valley: Seattle; Los Angeles; Austin, Tex.; Boston; New York; the District of Columbia, and San Francisco's "Multimedia Gulch."
The survey was conducted for Joint Venture by A. T. Kearney, a business consulting firm. Its findings were based on surveys and interviews with 125 executives of Internet companies in an effort to provide a portrait of an industry that, according to a study by the University of Texas Center for Research in Electronic Commerce, accounted for 1.2 million jobs and $300 billion in revenue in 1998.
The paradox is that the Internet -- which has largely been the offspring of networking and software technologies that were commercialized and invented in Silicon Valley -- is making it possible for new economic activity to spread rapidly beyond the Valley. As a loosely defined geographic region, Silicon Valley now describes an area bordered by San Mateo on the north to far past San Jose on the south.
"We cannot expect the past dominance in high-tech will insure future dominance of the emerging Internet industry," said Ruben Barrales, president and chief executive of Joint Venture. The challenge for Silicon Valley, he said, was "how to remain the geographic center of an inherently locationless medium."
To be sure, each new industry that has emerged based on the increasing power of the integrated circuit has eventually spilled over the Valley's borders into areas that quickly donned imitative names like Silicon Mountains, Silicon Desert and Silicon Alley. Outside the United States, it has generated vast manufacturing and design outposts in Asia and elsewhere.
There is, however, a growing concern that increasing quality-of-life concerns as well as the rapid depletion of skilled workers relative to demand is encouraging companies that would have come to the Valley to look elsewhere.
More than 85 percent of the executives surveyed reported access to talent as a factor in determining the site of their Internet companies. In the Valley, the shortfall in the skilled work force is estimated to be as high as 160,000 workers, equivalent to almost 33 percent of the regional labor demand for skilled employees, according to A. T. Kearney.
Against that background, a number of technology executives and government officials spoke defensively today about the strengths the region still offered as a result of its entrepreneurial culture.
"There is an extremely strong work ethic here," said Arife Janjua, vice president and general manager of Saraide.com, a wireless Internet services company. "People are willing to go the distance for the cause."
And other executives gave examples of the hypergrowth that continues to set the Valley apart. Rod Schrock, president and chief executive of the Altavista Company, said that his Valley-based business had grown from 55 employees to more than 500 in the last six months and was now hiring 8 to 10 new employees a week.
 "You could not achieve this kind of growth anywhere but in Silicon Valley," he said.
At the same time, there is growing concern that congestion in the Valley is reaching historic proportions and that housing costs, which once required that a household have two breadwinners, are now so high that each home will instead soon require two instant-millionaire beneficiaries of initial public offerings.
"We can no longer see ourselves as a suburban community," said Richard Gordon, a San Mateo County Supervisor. "We have to see ourselves as an urban environment."
Despite the growing anxiety that the Valley's best days may be behind it, there was a general consensus among those who spoke at a news conference here today that the Valley's culture, built largely by entrepreneurs and based on meritocracy, was still unmatched anywhere in the world.
The report can be obtained on line at http://www.jointventure.org. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT VENTURE: SILICON VALLEY NETWORK (GROUP); KEARNEY, A T, INC INTERNET COS (63%); JOINT VENTURE ELECTRONICS (60%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT VENTURE: SILICON VALLEY NETWORK (GROUP); KEARNEY, A T, INC UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); SEATTLE (WASH); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); AUSTIN (TEX); BOSTON (MASS); NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); BASEBALL (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



503 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Technology Helps Shares Make First Advance of Week

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday for the first time this week, led by computer-related shares like Microsoft, as Internet companies reported better-than-expected results.
But Goodyear Tire and Rubber fell after reporting a profit that missed estimates, limiting the gain of the Dow Jones industrial average. 
 "The market is becoming more selective and rewarding companies that come through with good results and penalizing those that come through with negative results," said Joseph Stocke of Meridian Investment in Valley Forge, Pa.
The Dow rose 6.65 points, or 0.06 percent, to 11,002.78. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.19, or 0.2 percent, to 1,379.29. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 29.59, or 1.1 percent, to 2,761.77, after falling 3.5 percent on Tuesday. All three indexes had slumped since Friday, when they touched records.
Advancing and declining stocks were about even on the New York Stock Exchange.
While Microsoft rose 1 3/8 yesterday, to 94 11/16, on Tuesday stocks had slumped after the company warned that business might slow later this year because of Year 2000 computer problems.
UAL, Chase Manhattan and Internet companies, including Real Networks and Excite@Home led a parade of companies beating or matching analysts' forecasts. Goodyear and the insurers Allstate and Progressive fell short of estimates. This is the busiest week for earnings reports, with more than 1,000 companies reporting.
Goodyear fell 2 7/8, to 54 3/4 after the company, the biggest tire maker, reported profit that was lower than the recently reduced Wall Street estimates. Allstate fell 1 11/16, to 34 15/16, and Progressive lost 7 1/8, to 133 7/8.
Chase Manhattan, which posted a 25 percent rise in earnings from operations, gained 7/16, to 81 5/16. It had strong results in all areas of business.
Real Networks, a maker of software used to distribute audio and video on line, rose 10 1/8, to 87 15/16, after it reported a smaller-than-expected second-quarter loss as revenue surged 86 percent compared with that of the 1998 quarter.
Excite@Home rose 11 5/16, to 47. The company, which provides high-speed Internet access through cable television lines, said its second-quarter loss had widened in line with estimates as revenue more than doubled and subscriptions grew 35 percent. Excite@Home also said it was in talks with rivals regarding possible transactions, though it declined to elaborate.
America Online rose 1 7/8, to 115 1/16, and Amazon.com advanced 5 5/16, to 125 7/16. After the market closed, America Online posted earnings that beat forecasts, while Amazon.com's results matched expectations.
Airline stocks rose for the second time in three days after UAL and AMR beat profit forecasts. UAL, parent of United Airlines, rallied 1 9/16, to 64 1/16. AMR, parent of American Airlines, gained 1/8, to 69 5/8.
Mergers lifted shares of Centocor and IXC Communications.
Centocor, a biotechnology company, surged 7 7/8, to 57 3/8, after Johnson & Johnson agreed to buy it for $61 a share, or $4.9 billion, in stock.
IXC jumped 3 1/2, to 39 3/4, after the company agreed to be acquired by Cincinnati Bell for $49.42 a share, or $3.2 billion in stock and assumed debt. IXC is building an 18,000-mile network that will provide services to phone and Internet companies.
In the bond market, Treasury prices fell as investors and traders sold bonds before Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, testifies before Congress today on the economy.
A falling dollar and expected sales of more than $10 billion of corporate debt by borrowers, including Wal-Mart Stores, also kept bonds in check.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond slipped 8/32, to 90 31/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.90 percent from 5.88 percent on Tuesday.
Concern about what Mr. Greenspan will tell Congress at his twice-yearly Humphrey-Hawkins testimony kept traders from buying Treasuries, especially as 30-year yields have already fallen more than a quarter-point the last month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since July 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GT (SWX) (94%); GT (NASDAQ) (94%); GT (BRU) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); ALL (NYSE) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (94%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (94%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (94%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (94%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (54%); AOL INC (51%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); TIRES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TIRE MFG (77%); INSURANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BROADBAND (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (51%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



504 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Regulators Seize Documents From Coca-Cola in Europe

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
In the latest twist to the Coca-Cola Company's fortunes -- or misfortunes -- in Europe, its offices in four European countries have been raided by regulators who seized company documents that may lead to an investigation of the company's competitive practices with big customers like supermarkets.
A spokesman for Coca-Cola confirmed yesterday that officials from the European Commission, which has tangled with Coke several times in recent months, appeared without warning as the business day was beginning Tuesday and asked for access to company files. 
 The offices of Coke and its bottling companies were entered in Austria, Denmark and Germany. Coke's bottling office in London also received a surprise visit from regulators.
"Their purpose was to review internal files with respect to commercial practices with retailers and other customers," said the spokesman, Rob Baskin. "We're cooperating fully with them. We believe we are within full compliance of all competition laws and regulations."
An investigation into whether Coke abused its position as the market leader in Italy has been going on for nearly a year. The investigation began after a complaint from Pepsi, Coca-Cola's chief rival.
The action comes less than six weeks after the biggest recall of Coke products in company history because of a contamination scare in Belgium and France. The recall hurt Coke's image in Europe, one of its most important markets.
It also had a significant impact on Coca-Cola's bottler, Coca-Cola Enterprises, costing the bottler $103 million, or most of its earnings for the year.
Coke has faced other problems in Europe, notably regulatory opposition to its plan to acquire most of the overseas rights to Cadbury Schweppes brands like Dr Pepper and Canada Dry. Coke announced the $1.85 billion plan in December, but by May had scaled it back to $1.1 billion, leaving out most of the countries in the European Union after antitrust regulators said Coke would hold too much market share if the acquisition were approved.
Neither the Cadbury deal nor the product recall seems to have any connection to the European Commission action. Coke and its bottlers have disagreed with the regulators over various company strategies, including whether the company abuses its "dominant position" in certain markets.
The three bottlers examined in the raid Tuesday are Coca-Cola Beverages, which is in the middle of merger talks with Hellenic Bottling and in which Coke holds a 50.1 percent stake; Coca-Cola Nordic Beverages, a joint venture with Carlsberg A.S. in which Coke has a 49 percent stake, and Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetranke A.G., Coke's German bottler in which Coke holds a 40 percent stake.
Analysts in New York seemed shocked by what they viewed as the latest setback for the company, which has been suffering through one of its worst years in recent memory, with economic distress around the world cutting into volume and profit growth.
"It looks like the E.U. is becoming a government unto itself," said Emanuel Goldman, a consumer-products analyst for Merrill Lynch. "It's gotten out of hand."
Andrew Conway, a beverage analyst for Morgan Stanley, said, "The very nature of a dawn raid is to give the E.C. unfettered accesss to Coke's files."
Coca-Cola stock slipped 31.25 cents yesterday, closing at $62.625.
Top Coke executives are expected to lead a meeting in New York today with analysts and investors, at which they will discuss the strategic outlook as well as the recall in Europe last month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (94%); COKE (NASDAQ) (92%); CARL.B (CPH) (61%); CARL.A (CPH) (61%); CCE (PAR) (54%); CCE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (94%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (91%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (61%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (61%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (90%); DENMARK (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMISSION; COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (94%); COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO CONSOLIDATED (92%); CADBURY LTD (91%); COCA-COLA ERFRISCHUNGSGETRAENKE AG (85%); CARLSBERG AS (61%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (58%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (54%); COCA-COLA BEVERAGES AUSTRIA GMBH (51%); COCA-COLA BEVERAGES NEDERLAND BV (51%); COCA-COLA BEVERAGES LTD (51%); COCA-COLA BEVERAGES CESKA REPUBLIKA SPOL SRO (51%); COCA-COLA BEVERAGES BELGIUM SA (51%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION; COCA-COLA CO EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; AUSTRIA; DENMARK; GERMANY; EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (90%); DENMARK (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; SEARCH AND SEIZURE; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (89%); PRODUCT RECALLS (87%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); MERGERS (68%); MARKET SHARE (68%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



505 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Belgrade Presents Schedule For Reservists' Back Pay

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, July 21

 BODY:
In an unusual open meeting of the Government intended to help assuage popular grievances after the Kosovo conflict, the Yugoslav Defense Minister announced today that army reservists would be paid overdue wages in installments over the next six months.
Angry reservists have protested around central and southern Serbia, including again today in Kragujevac. The protesters have blocked roads and railroad tracks and marched on city halls, demanding to be paid for their service in Kosovo. 
 The Defense Minister, Pavle Bulatovic, told the Cabinet that paying the reservists was a "top priority" and that the bill would be 1 billion dinars, or $100 million at the official exchange rate.
With Yugoslavia foreign exchange reserves estimated at $150 million before the war -- the figure is a carefully kept secret -- paying the soldiers is bound to mean printing money and new inflation.
There is much more to be spent to try to restore electrical stations and transformers, roads, bridges and factories, many of which were heavily damaged in the NATO bombing.
But the reservists come first. The Government of President Slobodan Milosevic cannot afford the potential for a popular explosion led by armed former soldiers who were mobilized for Kosovo, with 8,000 from Krusevac alone.
The protests in many areas include Krusevac, Nis, Prokuplje, Pirot, Smederovo and Leskovac. In Kragujevac today, 250 protesters rallied in the town center, marched two miles and blocked traffic along the road to Kraljevo, letting only the old and the sick through their barricades.
But the protesters typically spoke less about fundamental politics than about obtaining their money. One protester, Dusan Danjanovic, told a local journalist: "This is nothing to do with politics. This is a question about money. If they hadn't promised the money, we wouldn't have asked for it."
"If I trusted the Yugoslav Army," Dragan Radovic said, "I would go back to the army again. But it depends on whether they pay us or not."
Ljubica Markovic, editor in chief of the independent Beta news agency, noted in an interview that the Government "is not fighting back, but clearly hoping that the demonstrators will get tired."
Already, she said, daily demonstrations by reservists and opposition supporters in Leskovac and Valjevo are dwindling. One main opposition grouping, the Alliance for Change, has been organizing daily protests in Leskovac for 16 days, and Valjevo has had eight days of rallies.
The rallies are demanding Mr. Milosevic's resignation and the release of those arrested for organizing the protests.
"If the Government doesn't keep its promises to pay the reservists," Ms. Markovic said, "there will be more trouble. But there doesn't seem to be much belief or real energy in the demonstrations so far. Just deprivation and depression. The protests in southern Serbia are about social problems and lack of money, not about politics, at all."
If the region experiences social explosions as winter approaches, she said, "they could take all the politicians right along with them."
The Milosevic era is ending, "and there will be hard days for everyone," Ms. Markovic said. But she predicted that Mr. Milosevic would "be here for another year or 18 months, losing little by little, until the threshold is crossed, and people will abandon him."
Such discussions are beginning among figures on the outskirts of the Government, she said, but the moment for defection is not yet.
Mirosinka Dinkic, an economist at the Belgrade Economics Institute, said Yugoslavia's gross domestic product for this year would be $13 billion, 30 percent smaller than last year's. Average salaries, she added, are down 50 percent from Jan. 1, at least as measured by the black-market exchange rate for the German mark. The salaries are running 75 marks, or $45 a month.
Mr. Bulatovic said the Government would pay each soldier who served in Kosovo $180, and $120 a month to those who served outside the province. He said he was convinced that the plan would satisfy the reservists, because professional soldiers were paid just this week for the first half of May.
The Army Chief of Staff, Gen. Dragoljub Ojdanic, said in his report that 62 Yugoslav soldiers had been killed in Kosovo Liberation Army attacks after the accord signed with NATO on June 10, during the withdrawal of Yugoslav security forces from the province. He said the army's equipment losses in the war were minor.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Rebels Said to Comply With Pact
PRISTINA, Kosovo, July 21 (Agence France-Presse) -- NATO-led forces said today that they were encouraged by how rebels in the province were complying with the disarmament pact. The Kosovo Liberation Army has handed over a significant number of weapons ahead of a midnight deadline, said a spokesman for NATO, Maj. Jan Joosten.
Under the accord, signed on June 21, by rebel leaders and the commander of the NATO force, Lieut. Gen. Sir Michael Jackson, the rebels were to turn over all heavy weapons and nearly one-third of automatic arms by tonight.
Two later phases will see all the rebels' weapons, aside from small nonautomatic weapons like pistols and hunting rifles, placed in controlled depots by Sept. 21.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Yugoslavia shows location of Kragujevac: Protesters blocked traffic yesterday on the road to Kragujevac.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RIOTS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); JOURNALISM (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); WRITERS (64%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (54%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; BULATOVIC, PAVLE (MIN) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



506 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 23; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Chase Manhattan Earnings Show Strengthin All Areas

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Chase Manhattan Corporation said yesterday that its second-quarter earnings rose a greater-than-expected 25 percent partly because of strength in Internet investments, trading, investment banking and credit cards.
Profit from operations rose to $1.35 billion, or $1.55 a diluted share, compared with $1.08 billion, or $1.21 a share, in the 1998 quarter. Analysts had expected Chase to earn $1.37 a share, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks earnings. 
 Net income rose nearly 30 percent, to $1.39 billion, or $1.60 a share, from $1.07 billion, or $1.20, in 1998. The net figure included one-time gains from the sale of branches in Texas, the sale of One New York Plaza and a one-time expense for a contribution to the Chase Foundation.
Shares of Chase rose 43.75 cents yesterday, to $81.3125.
In the quarter, Chase benefited from an expanding economy and surging equity markets, which fueled demand for loans and bolstered trading revenue. Chase also profited from its investment in Starmedia Network, Latin America's biggest on-line service company;its shares have more than tripled since it went public last month.
"It was an excellent report across the board," said Diane Glossman, a bank analyst at Lehman Brothers. "All areas contributed."
Revenue grew 20 percent or more in three main businesses: investment banking and trading, consumer services and investor services.
Noninterest revenue rose 28 percent, to $3.47 billion, as trading revenue surged 63 percent, to $526 million, lifted by gains in the trading of equities and commodities and in debt products. Gains in private equity, or venture capital, climbed 39 percent, to $513 million.
Chase said last month that its investment in Starmedia would add at least $240 million in revenue, plus an additional $60 million for every $10 change in Starmedia's stock price above $48.
Starmedia, based in New York, went public last month at $15. On June 30, the stock closed at $64.125, giving Chase an apparent revenue gain from the investment of about $336 million. Shares of Starmedia fell 18.75 cents yesterday, to $48.1875.
Dina Dublon, Chase's chief financial officer, said the bank's Internet investments were worth about $1.2 billion and that the bank had reported about $500 million of those gains.
Fees from investment banking, which includes loan syndications, high-yield underwriting and mergers and advisory services, rose 34 percent, to a record $585 million.
"Investment banking was off the charts," said David Berry, a bank analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.
Chase was the largest provider of syndicated loans in the second quarter, according to the Securities Data Company. The bank also increased its ranking in advising on mergers to 10th, with an 8.3 percent market share, from 19th, with a 2.2 percent share in the period a year earlier, Securities Data said.
Chase said it expected investor services revenue to slow in the fourth quarter because corporate clients might cut back on financial transactions because of potential Year 2000 problems.
Chase, the fourth-largest provider of Visa and Mastercard credit cards, said credit card revenue rose 20 percent, to $438 million. Ms. Dublon said the bank was able to increase credit card profit by 15 percent.
Noninterest expense rose 13 percent, to $3.07 billion.
Chase's net interest income rose 5.4 percent, to $2.15 billion. The provision for loan losses rose 18 percent, to $388 million.
The bank also benefited from a strong domestic economy, as consumer banking revenue grew. Regional consumer banking revenue gained 9 percent, to $593 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); FIRST CALL CORP (72%); SECURITIES DATA CO INC (60%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; BANKS AND BANKING COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SYNDICATED LOANS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); MARKET SHARE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



507 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene: Cream in Labor Market'sChurn;
Why Job Losses Are Rising Amid Job Hunters' Nirvana

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
At a time when joblessness has fallen to just 4.3 percent of the work force and employers are loudly complaining about labor shortages, companies are also announcing record numbers of layoffs. It doesn't seem to make sense, does it?
Yesterday, for example, Eastman Kodak disclosed plans to cut up to 2,500 more jobs on top of the 17,700 it had already planned to eliminate by the end of the year. Not long ago, Procter & Gamble announced a mass layoff of about 15,000, with 2,400 in North America, as it reorganizes its worldwide operations. 
 And Levi Strauss, fighting off competition from makers of cheaper jeans, said this year that it would close half of its manufacturing plants in the United States and Canada, moving work overseas and laying off 5,900 workers.
Indeed, according to the widely followed monthly surveys by Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an international outplacement firm, layoff announcements in the first half of this year are running about 40 percent higher than 1998, which was a record year.
Why are the Challenger surveys picking up rising layoffs at a time that unemployment hovers near a 30-year low? On the surface, it seems paradoxical.
But economists and labor market analysts, including those at Challenger itself, say it is not contradictory at all.
"Job creation will far outdistance automation and job destruction," explained John Challenger, the firm's chief executive. "Sometimes a company must take a step backward by cutting part of its labor force in one area in an effort to move two steps forward into more profitable areas of development."
So, though layoffs tend to attract more attention during periods of economic stress, they can often signal economic vitality and long-term willingness to create jobs, even as they temporarily victimize some workers.
Take the case of AT&T, which announced in early 1996 that it would lay off 40,000 workers. Not long afterward, the company ended up hiring enough new people -- in providing wireless and local telephone services and running telecommunications systems for major corporations -- that by the end of 1996 its total employment had hardly budged. AT&T continues to lay off workers in some of its divisions even as its adds workers to others, like its new cable operations.
A tip that layoffs are not necessarily sinister or a sign of weakness comes from looking at the industries that have been hit hardest. In April, the computer industry -- hardly anyone's candidate as a troubled sector -- announced the most job cuts that month, more than 10,000. Electronics, another high-technology star, was second, with 8,900. According to the Challenger survey, between 1993 and 1998 the computer industry announced almost 273,000 job cuts, about the same as retail trade and second only to the aerospace-military industry.
More broadly, the Challenger data need to be put into the context of a labor market that is constantly churning.
Challenger says announced layoffs are running at about 60,000 a month. That might seem like a lot. But set it against another, truly startling, number: 13 million workers change their employment status in a typical month, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
On average, that means that 13 million Americans leave home or school to enter the labor force, exit the labor force without looking for new work, find new work after a spell of unemployment or search for work after they quit or are dismissed or laid off -- every month. Seen in the context of that enormous number of job changes that take place every month, the Challenger numbers barely register as a blip.
Actually, the 13 million figure is an underestimate of labor market churning. For it takes no account of workers who manage to change employers within a month. Nor does it include workers who change jobs within the same company.
Officials at the Labor Department estimate that 40 percent of the work force, or roughly 50 million workers, changes jobs within a year. In manufacturing alone, Prof. Steven Davis, a labor economist at the University of Chicago, estimates that 10 percent to 12 percent of jobs disappear in a typical year, a number that has not changed in decades.
Finally, careful scrutiny of Government data suggests that Challenger's surveys might not accurately track the number of actual layoffs taking place throughout the economy.
The Challenger surveys draw rapt attention because they are the only data available monthly, providing the only instant barometer of corporate layoffs. The question is how representative the announcements of layoffs are of actual layoffs.
For one thing, the surveys might be biased toward large companies, since they are the only ones that are required by law to announce plant closings and large layoffs ahead of time. Further, some job cuts are achieved through attrition rather than through actual layoffs.
The Labor Department does collect data every two years on displaced workers -- workers who lose their jobs because plants close or move, or because sales fall. Once collected and analyzed, the Government's data, drawn from the entire economy, have shown that the actual number of job losses was significantly greater than those picked up by Challenger's more limited surveys. That is unsurprising.
But the Government data also show that job losses have been steadily falling over the last few years, the opposite of the trend in the Challenger data. Professor Davis says the Government's data differ from Challenger's because Challenger appears to capture "only the tip of an iceberg."
According to the Labor Department, the portion of nonagricultural private workers with at least three years' tenure who were displaced during 1995 and 1996 fell to 3.8 percent. The figure for 1993 and 1994 was 4.4 percent. The 14 percent drop indicates job cuts were falling at least through 1996.
Another indication of the trend in job losses comes from Government surveys of unemployed workers who report they lost their jobs. The number has been falling -- to 2.7 million last month from 2.8 million in June 1998, and 3.1 million in June 1997 -- even though the size of the labor force grew by about 4 million during that two-year period.
Layoffs fuel fears, expressed throughout the 1990's, that corporate downsizing has been ripping workers from the security of long-term employment relationships. But a careful sifting of the numbers does not lend support to that anxiety.
Prof. Henry Farber, an economist at Princeton University, calculates that about 13 percent of the work force was displaced from jobs between 1991 and 1993. That compares with 15 percent between 1993 and 1995 and 12 percent between 1995 and 1997. His estimates are far higher than the Government's in part because he does not limit his sample to workers who have been working at least three years for their current employers.
Professor Farber says his data suggest that "somewhat more jobs were lost in the recent expansion than at similar points in the expansion of the late 1980's."
"The reasons are unclear," he added in a recent interview. "But the evidence is that workers are now coping better, and a higher fraction can find jobs. Also, the average wage loss by displaced workers is smaller than it used to be."
Of the workers who lost jobs between 1995 and 1997, about 75 percent were employed as of February 1998, compared with 65 percent for the 1993-1995 period. "None of these changes, however, is dramatic," Professor Farber said.
He says that despite the public focus on downsizing, there has been no substantial decline in job security in the 1990's. "Long-term employment is still an important phenomenon in the U.S. economy," he added.
He says that 35 percent to 40 percent of workers at least 35 years old have been with their current employers more than 10 years. These long-term relationships exist alongside the tremendous churning that characterizes the rest of the labor force.
Some workers, especially the young, change jobs rapidly -- at least until they find the occupations and employers they want for the long haul. Some industries, like fast-food restaurants, foster short-term employment. So the economy creates substantial numbers of long-term and short-term jobs.
The upshot is that layoffs remain high by historical standards. But job creation remains far higher.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scenes from the work world, where it seems paradoxical for companies to announce record layoffs while complaining about shortages of workers. Layoffs are in fact high by historical standards, but so is the number of jobs being created. (Super Stock (left); Alan Schein/The Stock Market (top); Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times (above))
 
Graph: "Gains Amid Pain"
Despite a drumbeat of layoff announcements, job gains far outweigh the losses. Here are data from nonfarm payrolls and corporate layoff announcements. Graph tracks number of announced layoffs and of net new jobs, annually from 1989 through 1998, and monthly from January through June of this year. (Sources: Challenger, Gray & Christmas; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS; LEVI STRAUSS & CO; PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; EASTMAN KODAK CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS; LEVI STRAUSS & CO; PROCTER & GAMBLE CO; EASTMAN KODAK CO BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; SHORTAGES LAYOFFS (92%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (58%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



508 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.P.S. Plans to Go Public, Raising at Least $3 Billion
United Parcel Service has resisted the persistent entreaties of investment bankers and remained private for 92 years. But now it has decided to sell 10 percent of itself to the public.
The package delivery company, which earned $1.7 billion last year on sales of $24.8 billion, plans to raise $3 billion to $5 billion in the offering. Page A1. 

Profits as Expected on the Internet
America Online said its fourth-quarter profit more than doubled, topping estimates, as it signed up 755,000 new subscribers and ad revenue surged. Amazon.com said its second-quarter loss widened because of increased spending to promote and expand its Web site, but its results matched expectations. Both companies reported after the market closed, and both stocks had gained. C8.
 
Johnson & Johnson to Buy Centocor
Johnson & Johnson has agreed to acquire Centocor, a biotechnology company, for $4.9 billion in stock. C2.
 
Schering-Plough, Eli Lilly and Bristol-Myers Squibb reported higher second-quarter profits as advertising increased sales of medicines for allergies, depression and diabetes. C2.
 
Silicon Valley Faces Competition
A survey conducted by the business consulting firm A. T. Kearney shows that the booming Internet economy is decentralizing technology industries and threatening Silicon Valley's domination of all things digital. C2.
 
Stocks Reverse Slide and Edge Up
Stocks rose for the first time this week. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.65 points, to 11,002.78. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.19 points, to 1,379.29, and the Nasdaq composite index climbed 29.59 points, to 2,761.77. C9.
 
Kodak Plans Closings and Job Cuts
Eastman Kodak said that it would close some manufacturing operations, cutting as many as 2,500 jobs. Analysts applauded the move, which will entail a $300 million charge in the third quarter, but the mood was somber in Rochester, where Kodak is already cutting 7,500 jobs. Kodak also reported a 9 percent quarterly earnings rise to $491 million. C11.
 
New Packages for Familiar Brands
In the beverage industry, some companies are trying to win consumers over to their products by putting the usual brew in an unusual package, using substances like aluminum, glass and clear plastic and the opportunities those offer for industrial-strength decorative arts like embossing and surface printing. The new packaging ranges from a can for Heineken beer to plastic bottles for Miller Beer brands to a glass fruit-drink bottle with a label that changes as the contents decrease. Advertising. C6.
 
Europeans Raid Coca-Cola Offices
Coca-Cola offices in Austria, Britain, Denmark and Germany have been raided by European Commission regulators. They seized company documents that may lead to an investigation of competitive practices with big customers like supermarkets. The company said it believed it was in compliance with all laws. C3.
 
G.M. Admits Antilock Brake Faults
After a five-year Federal investigation, General Motors acknowledged that antilock brakes on 3.6 million sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and full-size vans may be slow to stop the vehicles in some cases. A10.
 
Chase Manhattan Profit Up 25%
Chase Manhattan said that its second-quarter earnings rose a greater-than-expected 25 percent, in part because of strength in Internet investments, trading, investment banking and credit cards. C23.
 
Bear Stearns said that profit in its most recent quarter rose 56 percent. C2.
 
Times Mirror Results Increase 6%
Buoyed by a turnaround at The Los Angeles Times, where national advertising volume increased by 33.5 percent, Times Mirror posted a 6 percent gain in second-quarter profit. C6.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,002.78, up 6.65
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.90%, up 0.02
The euro -- $1.053 dollars, up 0.01
The dollar -- 118.10 yen, down 0.85
 
Graph tracks share price of America Online, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (91%); UPS (NYSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (57%); BMY (NYSE) (55%); LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (87%); UNITED STATES (87%); AUSTRIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); DENMARK (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (65%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (68%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); AOL INC (57%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (55%); ELI LILLY & CO (55%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (87%); UNITED STATES (87%); AUSTRIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); DENMARK (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (65%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (89%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (89%); BEER & ALE (84%); CHEMICALS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); BRANDING (71%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); BEVERAGE MFG (67%); ALLERGIES (67%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (65%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (64%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (57%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (54%); DIABETES (52%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



509 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: Bank Dips Its Toe in South Bronx;
Commerce Gingerly Follows Housing in Ex-Wasteland

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Hilda Hernandez stared, stepped back, stepped up. She stared some more. The look on her face suggested that a flying saucer had just landed in her neighborhood.
In fact, only a bank had, but for Ms. Hernandez, who has lived through her neighborhood's seesawing fortunes for 30 years, that was news enough. Last week, the European American Bank, or E.A.B., officially opened its first branch in the South Bronx, making it the first bank in the area served by the borough's Community Board 3 in more than a decade. 
 "It's very nice, very nice," Ms. Hernandez said over and over, her eyes glued to the automatic teller machine.
In the early 1980's, the building of the ranch homes on Charlotte Street, a block away from the bank, helped start the borough's huge housing renaissance, in which 57,000 apartments and houses have been built or rehabilitated. That a suburb -- today complete with satellite dishes and lawn sprinklers -- could be built on the rubble that Presidents Carter and Reagan toured as an example of urban ruin suggested that revival was possible.
But even as the Charlotte Street homes were followed by dozens and dozens of new multifamily homes on nearby streets, stores and services were slow to follow. The perception that poverty and crime were more abundant than customers kept businesses away.
Today, though, commercial life is slowly creeping back to areas that became retail wastelands as the Bronx burned.
The smart brick bank is embedded in a new mini-mall on Southern Boulevard at Jennings Street, and health and day care centers, a pharmacy, a community room and other enterprises plan to move in, with 6,000 square feet still to be rented.
Across the street is a video store, three years old, run by two sisters from the Dominican Republic, and up the block is a Western Beef store, a veritable graybeard with six years in the neighborhood. Around the corner from the bank is a fruit, vegetable and fish market, opened eight months ago by a Korean couple. A few blocks north is a large, sparkling new doughnut shop.
And north of the doughnut shop, on 174th Street, a 137,000-square-foot shopping center long in the planning stages is, its developers say, close to construction. Its tenants are to include a Pathmark supermarket, a Payless shoe store and an Ashley Stewart clothing store.
"It's the beginnings," said Bill Traylor, a senior program director at the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a national nonprofit group that assists local development. "There's a nascent commercial and economic revival, and it's happening not just because the economy's good but because we've rebuilt the market."
And "the market" -- the people living in the neighborhood -- is delighted. "When I moved here, there was nothing," said Abdullah Sabuur, a neighborhood resident since 1987, and a new account holder at E.A.B. Now, he said, "I don't think I can get a better neighborhood, with what they're bringing here."
There is, of course, still a long way to go. Most of this stretch of Southern Boulevard, for example, is still ghostly, with most stores boarded up or vacant. And there are those who worry that the airy new South Bronx -- where single-, two- or three-family homes have often replaced giant apartment buildings -- may not have a high enough concentration of free-spending customers to sustain much retail business, particularly when welfare revision has also reduced the cash flowing to the area.
But there is no question that there has been progress in trying to recapture the era when "Southern Boulevard was Southern Boulevard," in the words of Marcella Brown, the chairwoman of Community Board 3. That was before the fires and the exodus of residents in the 1960's and 70's. As buildings burned and people fled, the remaining businesses slowly closed.
Wanda Santiago, the 38-year-old manager of the new E.A.B. branch, remembers it well. She grew up not far away, at Fox and 163d Streets. As apartment buildings burned, until her family's was the only one left on her block, the businesses on her street, whether the pharmacy or the discount store, left too.
"The only thing that survived was the bodega," she said.
Even as shiny new homes filled Ms. Santiago's old street and the streets around her new employer, few businesses leapt into the breach to serve the new residents.
"There's always a lag between housing and services," said John Roberts, the district manager of the adjacent Community Board 2, which covers the Longwood and Hunts Point areas. "It's very slow."
But Mr. Traylor said a study two years ago by his organization confirmed that a retail comeback had been particularly slow in the South Bronx. "A negative image was literally burnt into retailers' minds," he said. "Overcoming that has been a long process."
Bodegas and other small businesses run by immigrant entrepreneurs were among the first to return. A sampling by the Local Initiatives Support Corporation two years ago noted a 16 percent increase in the number of retail businesses over what the South Bronx had in 1989, but said that most of those seeking to lease empty storefronts were bodegas.
But gradually, the businesses coming in are diversifying, both in their nature and in their size. There is a growing sector of insurers and realtors serving the healthy real estate market in the Bronx. National chains, from Rite-Aid to Blockbuster, are coming in, too, particularly to commercial strips, like the one farther south on Southern Boulevard, just below Westchester Avenue, that survived the hard years. There is even a new Starbucks on Fordham Road, generally considered the northern border of the South Bronx, and a Gap store is coming, too.
But business at the Starbucks, as at many of the new businesses, is slow, a reminder that the question of whether the South Bronx has enough customers with enough money to sustain all its new businesses has yet to be answered.
The businesses on or around Southern Boulevard say they are not sure yet. Tan Il Nam, a Korean immigrant who opened the neighborhood's only fruit, vegetable and fish market with her husband eight months ago, said that she loved her customers but that business was slow. She is counting on more customers from three buildings at the corner of Southern Boulevard and Jennings Street that have just been rehabilitated and are being reoccupied, and a new residence for the elderly across Jennings Street.
E.A.B.'s statistics show an average annual household income of $18,000 for the 19,000 households around the bank, and a home ownership rate of 8 percent. The bank decided to build a branch there in 1995; the long delay in completion was due to the defaulting of the initial contractor.
At the time, government regulators were leaning on banks to serve the South Bronx, but Richard Roberto, the president of E.A.B.'s community development corporation, said pressure did not motivate the bank. "Pure and simple, we went there to make money," he said, pointing out that the bank has no competition in the area served by Community Board 3. "We think we're taking a prudent risk."
Since its unofficial opening in mid-June, the bank has taken in just under $1 million from 359 depositors -- an average of $2,700 per depositor -- plus $8 million in community development funds from a single depositor, said Ms. Santiago, the manager.
"It doesn't make a market for us, but everyone needs banking," Eugene Brody, the bank's manager of market research, said. He added: "It is an extraordinarily underserved community. We'll do well. We'll provide a community service and have a warm fuzzy feeling as well."
Armin Krauss, a butcher who kept his business going on Jennings Street for 41 years, said he was skeptical that the bank or the new businesses would do well. Welfare cutbacks, he said, have taken a big bite out of the neighborhood's cash flow.
But the bigger problem, Mr. Krauss said -- and many planning officials agree -- is that while the Charlotte Street houses are beautiful, far fewer people live in them than lived in the apartment buildings that once shadowed the street. There are now about 6 families per acre in Charlotte Gardens, as the suburban tract is known, where there were once close to 200.
Fewer homes mean fewer customers. And that, said Mr. Krauss, who was born in Hungary and describes himself as "the only concentration camp survivor in the South Bronx," is why "the neighborhood has come back, but not businesswise."
Charlotte Street, with its suburban feel, is extreme -- no other area in the Bronx is so spread out. But particularly in the southeast, the borough has been rebuilt with many single- , two- or three-family homes where large apartment buildings once stood.
And so in some cases, community development groups that once focused exclusively on housing are now turning their attention to bringing retail and services to the areas they serve. M.B.D. Community Housing Corporation, for example, the neighborhood group that has renovated much of the housing in the Charlotte Gardens area, is the developer of the new mall that will house the Pathmark.
"Once you get the neighborhood settled, and establish a renters' and homeowners' base, you're able to go and attract businesses," said Ralph Porter, the president of M.B.D.
Without a commercial revival, he and other community leaders said, the South Bronx's rebuilding would be incomplete. Harold DeRienzo, president of the Parodneck Foundation for Self-Help Housing and Community Development, said that without local retailing, the South Bronx had become a two-tier society, in which those with cars went outside for goods and services, while those with few options were trapped.
"We need to build one overall community with diverse choices," he said, and added, as did other planners, that that meant making sure stores have sufficient parking. The new bank branch has a drive-through window.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The European American Bank opened its first branch in the South Bronx last week, one block from Charlotte Street. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. B1); The South Bronx "suburb" of Charlotte Gardens has a drawback: only 6 families per acre, down from 200 in former apartment buildings, meaning fewer retail customers. New stores have lagged behind new housing. (pg. B6)
 
Map showing the location of Charlotte Street in the Bronx: A new bank and new stores are opening near Charlotte Street. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AMERICAN BANK EUROPEAN AMERICAN BANK (57%); COMMUNITY BOARD (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN AMERICAN BANK COMMUNITY BOARD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BANKS AND BANKING; HOUSING RETAILERS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); RETAIL BAKERIES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); SHOE STORES (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY JIMMY CARTER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



510 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Council Votes Big Raises for Top Officials

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
The City Council voted yesterday to approve pay increases of 10 percent to 28 percent for the city's top officials, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, and the Council's own 51 members. The raises had been recommended by a panel of three private citizens that is convened every four years to consider the pay levels of the city's top elected leaders.
With scant debate yesterday, the Council voted, 38 to 5, to approve the panel's recommendations. The largest percentage increases will go to the Council members themselves. Their base annual pay, for what is considered part-time legislative work, will rise almost 28 percent, to $90,000, from $70,500. 
 The raise does not affect the stipends 36 Council members get for heading committees and holding leadership positions. The stipends range from $3,000 for the minority whip to $39,500 for the Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone.
Mr. Giuliani, who has said he will sign the raises into law, will get an increase of slightly more than 18 percent, bringing his annual salary to $195,000 from $165,000. The raises would be retroactive to July 1. At his daily news conference yesterday, Mr. Giuliani defended the raises when asked about complaints from some labor officials that they were too large.
The Mayor noted that by law, the panel of three citizens, called the Quadrennial Advisory Commission for the Review of Compensation of Elected Officials, is convened only once every four years.
"When the commission recommends raises, they recommend them with the anticipation that that will be the only raise for four or six years," he said. "So it makes it look as if the percentage is very high in a given year. I think they made a fair objective analysis of salaries throughout the country and they took into account that it's the only raise for a four-year period."
Asked if he would accept the raise, Mr. Giuliani replied: "Sure, if it's voted, absolutely. I am not a fool."
The members of the panel were Richard L. Gelb, chairman emeritus of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; Stanley Brezenoff, president of Maimonides Medical Center, and Robert Kaufman, a partner in the law firm of Proskauer Rose. The panel recommends specific salary increases, which the Mayor and the Council can approve or reject but not change.
The Council also approved raises of more than 20 percent for the City Comptroller, to $160,000, from $133,000; 20 percent for the Public Advocate, to $150,000, from $125,000; more than 18 percent for the borough presidents, to $135,000, from $114,000, and almost 10 percent for the city's five district attorneys, to $150,000, from $136,700.
Mark Green, the Public Advocate, who refused to accept a raise four years ago because of the city's poor fiscal condition, said he would accept the increase this time in a healthy economy.
The Council members to vote against the raises were Stephen J. Fiala, of Staten Island; Kenneth K. Fisher, of Brooklyn; Martin J. Golden, of Brooklyn; Sheldon S. Leffler, of Queens, and James S. Oddo of Staten Island. During the debate yesterday, no one said he or she would refuse the raise.
Mr. Leffler said that the increases were too large because they far exceeded the rate of inflation. Mr. Oddo and Mr. Fiala said later that they wished the raises had been tied to legislation making Council positions full-time jobs with limits on outside income.
But on the chamber floor, other Council members were quick to defend themselves as overworked and deserving of raises. "It's not a merit raise," Councilwoman Ronnie M. Eldridge of Manhattan said. "It's based on the responsibility that this body has."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter F. Vallone, the City Council Speaker, addressed members before the vote, in which they gave themselves a raise of almost 28 percent. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (63%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (55%); CITY COUNCIL (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CITY COUNCILS; WAGES AND SALARIES; MAYORS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CITIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); LAWYERS (69%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



511 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: U.P.S. Going Public And Its Employees Hope for Windfall

BYLINE: By By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Ever since two Seattle teen-agers started a telephone message service in 1907 that grew to become United Parcel Service of America Inc., the company, now the world's largest package delivery service, has been a rarity in corporate America.
It is owned by its employees, and many spend their entire working lives there. The company's top 15 executives all began their careers sorting packages. 
 Even more unusual, for 92 years U.P.S. has resisted the entreaties of investment bankers and remained private. But yesterday, in the latest sign that the siren song of Wall Street is too hard to resist in an age of instant riches and the Internet, U.P.S. said it would sell 10 percent of itself to the public later this year.
The stock offering will very likely be one of the biggest in history, raising $3 billion to $5 billion. And in today's overheated stock market, analysts think U.P.S. shares will soar because of the company's link to the Internet -- as a prime deliverer of goods bought on line -- creating a windfall for tens of thousands of the company's managers, employees and retirees. That means that the local U.P.S. deliveryman in his chocolate brown uniform and matching truck could see his net worth soar.
"For years that's the thing everybody has been hoping for," said Jason Vines, a driver who was picking up packages yesterday in Manhattan and received the news from the company through its cellular network. "Now it's going to happen."
James P. Kelly, the chairman and chief executive of U.P.S., said the company, which estimates that it ships 6 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, had taken care to structure the deal so that it would preserve the company's culture. Though 10 percent of the company will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, 99 percent of the voting rights will remain with the current employees and managers.
"In designing our plan," Mr. Kelly said, "we've insured that this fundamental element of our success will continue as an essential part of our future."
But once its stock begins trading, U.P.S., which is based in Atlanta, will come under the kind of pressure for short-term profits felt by other large corporations. Though in the past it could invest in new technology or expansion in Europe without worrying about the effect on its stock price, that luxury might be lost.
"This was an internally fed culture with an unusual sense of purpose," said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, the president of the nonprofit Chief Executive Leadership Institute in Atlanta, who worked as a consultant to U.P.S. for 12 years. "There is a hometown flavor to them. It is very meritocratic."
The formula has been a success. U.P.S. posted profit of $1.7 billion last year on sales of $24.8 billion, making it larger and more profitable than its rival, Fedex. Its 330,000 employees delivered more than 3 billion packages to 1.6 million customers in more than 200 countries. U.P.S. trucks and planes ply routes in virtually every corner of the world, making it one of the most recognizable brands.
Mr. Kelly said that U.P.S. needed to issue stock to the public to maintain its competitiveness against rivals like the FDX Corporation, which owns Fedex; DHL and several increasingly aggressive foreign postal services that are also planning to issue stock soon.
As the package delivery service has become global in recent years, U.P.S. has expanded into Europe, Asia and Latin America. It has also moved into the fast-growing logistics business, taking charge of the delivery of all parts and components for large manufacturers.
U.P.S. has more than $3 billion in cash and can borrow billions more, but it does not have publicly traded stock to use as a currency for deals. "We think we need this flexibility," Mr. Kelly said, "to provide ourselves with another tool should we decide to do the kind of strategic acquisitions we are talking about."
But analysts also said that it was becoming increasingly difficult for U.P.S. to continue to turn its back on the soaring values investors are giving an Internet-related company. Last year, FDX shares soared 47 percent after investors identified it as a so-called Internet play.
U.P.S. executives think they have an even better story to tell. They point to a report by Zona Research of San Francisco that concluded that U.P.S. delivers 55 percent of all the goods bought on the Internet. While $80 billion worth of merchandise was bought on line last year, Forrester Research in Boston estimated that the figure will balloon to $3.2 trillion by 2003.
That sort of talk should play well to investors when U.P.S. shares begin trading. "Their timing is excellent," said Edward M. Wolfe, an air freight and logistics analyst at Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown in New York.
There is also a strong reservoir of demand for U.P.S. stock from employees, their families and friends. The company now issues private stock to managers as part of their annual compensation and lets employees set aside part of their paychecks to buy shares.
The U.P.S. board sets the price of the stock each quarter based on the company's performance and future prospects. But it retains the right to buy back shares when employees retire to reissue them to others.
In the last 50 years, the shares have risen in value every quarter except one, in 1997, when they fell 25 cents after the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents 202,000 U.P.S. workers, struck the company. Yesterday, Chip Roth, a teamster spokesman, said the union was "analyzing the I.P.O. for its potential impact on employees."
Mr. Sonnenfeld said, "U.P.S. family members and friends that have seen the performance of U.P.S. stock have always wished they could buy some." Still, in place of a stock known for stability, they will have shares subject to the wild swings of the overall stock market.
Under the plan, U.P.S. will create two types of stock: A shares held by insiders and B shares held by the public. Each A share will have 10 votes compared with one for every B share. But instead of having to sell shares to the company, holders of A shares can convert them to B shares and sell them on the open market.
Today its internal stock is priced at $47 a share, giving the company a value of about $26 billion. But most analysts think that figure is extremely conservative, based on the valuations given to FDX and others. Some said it could go as high as $50 billion, which would mean that the company would raise $5 billion.
U.P.S. said it would use the cash to buy shares from employees who wish to sell. About 125,000 employees are shareholders. Still, no employee interviewed yesterday said he would sell. "It's a pot of gold for when I retire," said David Arroyo, 32, a driver who has worked at U.P.S. nine years and holds 500 shares.
 
Chart: "U.P.S. vs. Fedex"
United Parcel Service says it will sell 10 percent of the company to the public. Here is how it stacks up against its largest publicly traded rival.
 
UPS
HEADQUARTERS -- Atlanta
EMPLOYEES -- 330,000
PACKAGES A DAY -- 12.4 mil.
REVENUE PER PACKAGE -- $8.10
SALES* -- $24.8 bil.
NET INCOME* -- $1.7 bil.
NET MARGIN* -- 6.9%
MARKET CAPITALIZATION -- N.A.
PRICE TO EARNINGS -- N.A.
 
FEDEX
HEADQUARTERS -- Memphis
EMPLOYEES -- 145,000
PACKAGES A DAY -- 3.1 mil.
REVENUE PER PACKAGE -- $16.05
SALES* -- $16.8 bil.
NET INCOME* -- $631 mil.
NET MARGIN* -- 3.8%
MARKET CAPITALIZATION -- $13.8 bil.
PRICE TO EARNINGS -- 22.00
 
*UPS results are for 1998. Fedex results include Viking and RPS and are for the fiscal year that ended in May.
 
(Source: Company reports; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg, C23) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (91%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE OF AMERICA INC UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE OF AMERICA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (51%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PACKAGE SHIPPING (91%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (68%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; KELLY, JAMES P JAMES P KELLY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



512 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4594 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From President Clinton's Wide-Ranging News Conference

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the news conference by President Clinton yesterday at the White House, as recorded by The New York Times: 

Prepared Statement
Today I want to make a brief statement about the choice we face here in Washington and in our country about how best to move forward into the new century and what to do with the surplus. When we look toward the future, it is helpful to remember at least the recent past.
Six and half years ago the budget deficit was $290 billion and rising, wages were stagnant, inequality was growing, social conditions were worsening. In the 12 years before I took office, unemployment averaged more than 7 percent. It's almost difficult to remember what it was like. No one really thought we could turn it around, let alone bring unemployment to a 29-year low or turn decades of deficits, during which time the debt of our country was quadrupled in only 12 years, into a surplus of $99 billion.
Our nation has made a seismic shift in the last six years from recession to recovery, from a crisis of confidence to a renewal of resolve, from economic disorder to a fiscal house finally in order.
Now as we debate what to do with our prosperity, we face a critical choice, whether to move forward with the fiscal discipline that got us to where we are today, or return to the kind of risk-taking that got us into recessions and deficits before. We must decide whether to invest the surplus, to strengthen America over the long term or to squander it for the short term.
I think the right course is clear and a bigger surplus only means that the mistake could be bigger and the missed opportunity greater if we take the wrong course.
I have proposed a balanced budget that puts first things first. I believe we must maintain our sound economic strategy and invest the surplus in long-term goals, saving Social Security, saving and strengthening Medicare, modernizing it by providing a long overdue drug benefit and continuing to meet our basic responsibilities in education, defense, the environment, biomedical research.
Tomorrow I will release a report that shows a great and growing need for prescription drug coverage. What the study shows is that 75 percent of our older Americans lack decent, dependable private-sector coverage of prescription drugs. That's three out of every four seniors. Clearly, America needs a prescription drug plan that is simple, universal and voluntary. Anyone who says we don't, I believe, is out of date and out of touch.
As I've described, my plan meets these national priorities, while paying off the debt by 2015, while investing in America's new markets, the places that have not yet felt our prosperity, and while providing substantial tax relief, $250 billion of it targeted to help families save for retirement, pay for child care, long-term care, for modern schools.
So let's be clear about something. We're not debating whether to have tax cuts or not. We should have tax cuts, but tax cuts that provide for us first to save Social Security and Medicare, not undermine them. Tax cuts we can afford, not ones that would demand drastic cuts in defense, education, agriculture or the environment. Tax cuts in the national interest, not special interest.
Now, these are the risks that are posed by the Republican tax plan that the House is about to vote on. Let me tell you what their plan would do. It would pile up $3 trillion in debt over the next two decades, right when the baby boomers start to retire -- that's what it costs -- right when Social Security and Medicare feel the crunch.
Because of the cost of the tax plan over the next two decades, I should say what it doesn't do. It doesn't do anything to extend the solvency of Social Security, to extend the solvency of Medicare to provide the prescription drug benefits, and it would require significant, significant cuts from where we are today in education, defense, biomedical research, the environment and other critical areas. If we don't save Social Security, it's not because we can't. If we don't strengthen Medicare and add the prescription drug benefit, it's not because we can't. If we don't meet these clear national needs, it's because we choose not to do so. It will be because instead we choose to reward ourselves today by risking our prosperity tomorrow.
I hope Congress will make the right choice. When members cast their ballots on the Republican tax plan, they're really voting also on whether to save Social Security and Medicare. They're voting on whether to pay off the national debt for the first time in over 150 years, something that would guarantee us lower interest rates, higher investment, more jobs, higher incomes and for average citizens, lower home mortgage payments, car payments, credit card payments, college loan payments. They're voting whether to meet our most pressing national priorities in education, defense, nearly every other domain in our people's lives.
I think the choice is clear between the plan the Republican leadership has outlined and the national priorities of the American people. I hope we can still work together across party lines to save Social Security and Medicare, to safeguard our priorities and have the right kind of tax cut. If Congress passes the wrong kind, of course I will not sign it. I will not allow a risky plan to become law. And as I said, we now have six and a half years of evidence. This is not really a debate that's just about ideas without any evidence. We clearly know what works now, and we ought to stay with it.
As I said, I will work with any member of either party willing to put first things first. We can't have a tax cut and do the right thing for the long term in America. That is my commitment and I hope that together we can fulfill it for our people.
 
Questions and Answers
Q. Mr. President, in U.S. treaty relations, is it obligated to defend Taiwan militarily if it abandons the one-China policy, and would the U.S. continue military aid if it pursues separatism?
MR. CLINTON. Well let me say first of all, a lot of those questions are governed by the Taiwan Relations Act, which we intend to honor. Our policy is clear. We favor the one-China policy. We favor the cross-straight dialogues.
The understanding we have had all along with both China and Taiwan is that the difference between them would be resolved peacefully. If that were not to be the case under the Taiwan Relations Act, we would be required to view it with the gravest concern. But I believe that both China and Taiwan understand this. I believe that they want to stay on a path to prosperity and dialogue and we have dispatched people today as the morning press reports to do what we can to press that case to all sides.
This is something that we don't want to see escalate, and I believe that what Mr. Lee said yesterday was trying to move in that direction. We all understand how difficult this is, but I think that the pillars of the policy are still the right ones. The one-China policy is right, the cross-straight dialogue is right, the peaceful approach is right and neither side, in my judgment should depart from any of those elements.
Q. But we would still have to go to war with China if it decided to break away.
A. I will say what I've already said. The Taiwan Relations Act governs our policy. We made it clear and I have, as you remember. A few years ago we had a physical expression of that, that we don't believe there should be any violent attempts to resolve this. We would view it very seriously. But I don't believe there will be. I think that both sides understand what needs to be done. . . .
Q. Economists have been calling on you to indicate now whether you intend to reappoint Alan Greenspan in order to avoid having the issue become mired in election year politics and upsetting financial markets next year. Would you like to see the chairman stay on? And has he given you any indication of his plans?
A. I have, as you know, enjoyed a very good relationship, both personally and professionally, with Mr. Greenspan. I think he has done a terrific job. I have no idea whether he would even be willing to serve another term. I will make the decision in a timely fashion. I do not expect it to become embroiled in election year politics. . . .
Q. Sir, you talk about how expensive the Republican tax cuts would be. But the Congressional Budget Office has now just come out with a report saying that even with their tax cuts, almost $800 billion in tax cuts, they would save about $277 billion over a 10-year period where by your program would save only about $50 billion. That's about a $227 billion difference. How do you reconcile that and, you know, people on the Hill listen to the C.B.O.
A. They listen to the C.B.O. except where it's inconvenient for them, like the Patients' Bill of Rights. The Republicans have freed us all now to question the C.B.O. since they ignored the C.B.O. on the Patients' Bill of Rights. They have discredited their own C.B.O. Let me say, I haven't seen that C.B.O. accounting.
All I can tell you is that all of our budget people were rolling their eyes and saying that it was a very creative study. Let me just say this: You have six and a half years of experience with the numbers we have given you and the estimates we have made. And every single year our numbers have not only been accurate, but we have done better than we said we would do. Every single year for six and a half years now. Our studies show that their tax cut, over the next two decades, will cost, first a trillion dollars and then three trillion in the second decade. And that then the enormous loss to the American people in interest savings. That is, we'll have to keep spending more and more of our tax money paying interest on the debt, and it will require huge cuts in education and defense and other things. . . .
Q. The C.B.O. says it estimates the cost of your Medicare reforms are more than twice what you say they are.
A. Well, again, you have evidence. Let me just say this: In the 1997 balanced budget agreement, we agreed to a Medicare savings figure. O.K. And we -- and this is the reason all these teaching hospitals are in trouble today. We agreed to a Medicare savings figure. And we said O.K., here is our health information. This is what we do in the executive branch, we deal with these hospitals. Here are the changes you need to make in the Medicare program to achieve the savings that the Republicans and the Democrats in Congress and the White House agreed on. And the C.B.O. said no, no, no, no. That won't come close. You need these changes plus these changes. And we said O.K., we're following the C.B.O. We put it in there.
What happened? That's one of the reasons the surplus is somewhat bigger than it otherwise would be, the cuts in Medicare were far more severe, our numbers were right, their numbers were wrong and that's why you've got all these hospitals all over America, every place I go, talking about how they're threatened with bankruptcy.
So when it comes to estimating Medicare costs, again we have evidence and whenever there's been a difference between us and the C.B.O., we've been right and they've been wrong. That's all I can tell you. No serious person -- and so what are they going to do about Medicare? They say our drug program will cost more. They don't put a red cent into it. What are they going to do about it? Even if you don't have a drug program, if you adopt their tax-cut program they won't be able to do anything to extend the solvency of Medicare and they will have to have huge cuts.
For them to produce those savings, they are going to -- they can't even fund my defense budget, much less the one they say they want. They're going to have cuts in defense, cuts in education, cuts in the environment. That's all their savings assumed that there going to stay with the present budget levels, which they themselves are trying to get out of even as we speak here today. . . .
Q. Sir, in your conversation with Chairman Arafat this morning, did you ask him to take any specific steps to advance what you believe is new momentum toward peace? And did you discuss with him his complaints yesterday that he found Prime Minister Barak's 15-month timetable unacceptable?
A. Well, I told him only this. I said that, I generally described my meetings with Prime Minister Barak to him. I told him that he was committed to working in partnership with Chairman Arafat and honoring any agreements that had been made to this point and that any, any modifications they make going forward to the benefit of either or both sides would have to be done by mutual agreement, that I thought he was completely committed to resolve the, all the issues outstanding in the peace process in an expeditious manner.
And what I urged him to do was to have this one-on-one meeting. Hear him out, think it through and if he wanted to talk to me again after the meeting occurred, that I would be happy to talk to him. So I went out of my way not to describe the Prime Minister's proposals or to advocate or not advocate, but simply to say that I was convinced they were being made in complete good faith and that they would, that the peace process would be revitalized and whatever they did from here on out is something that they would do together. And I think he felt good about that. . . .
Q. The House of Representatives appears to be on the verge of terminating funding for the F-22 fighter. Will the White House fight hard for full funding for that program, even if it means sacrificing other Pentagon airplane programs, or even pay for servicemen?
A. Well, I don't think we should sacrifice the pay for our service personnel because we now are getting back in the ball game in recruitment. The good economy and the increased deployments and the low pay all combined, making it hard for us to both recruit and retain people. And the people are still the most important part of our military, their quality and their training and their morale and their commitment and the condition of their families.
So I don't think that. Now the Congress every year puts other things into the defense budget which are not priority for the Pentagon and are priorities for the Congress. We can fund the F-22, we can fund the plane without compromising the basic priorities of our national defense, within the funds set aside, and that is what I will fight to do.
I think it will be a mistake to abandon the project. I think it has real potential to add to our national defense. I have always supported it. And I hope that it can be preserved.
Q. You had some fun recently with George W. Bush and his slogan of compassionate conservatism, but you went beyond the notion that he's not offering many details of his policy and seemed to ridicule his slogan and even question his sincerity. Were you just trying to help Mr. Gore's candidacy or were you taking the opportunity maybe to just needle the leading Republican candidate?
A. No, I was just having a little fun. I, you know, this is such a long time, if we don't have any laughs, this is going to be a very tedious struggle between now and November of 2000. Let me say this, I think that you know every, every person struggles to find a phrase, or something that will sort of stand for what he or she is trying to do.
So, I was really just having a little fun. I think the most important thing is that all the candidates make their positions clear on the great debates going on now. And make their positions clear on what they would do if they got the job. To me, that's the most important thing.
You know, I am not involved in this campaign as a candidate. And I have a full-time job so I'm not involved in any sort of full-time consulting role. So I look at this, I look at this more from the point of view of the average American voter.
What will change the lives of America? For example, every candidate should tell us, you know, are you for the Patients' Bill of Rights? Are you for closing the gun-show loophole? Are you for raising the minimum wage? Are you for the House Republican tax plan or do you favor our plan on Social Security and saving Social Security and Medicare and making America debt free and having a smaller tax cut that enables us to continue to fund education and defense and these other things? What are going to do if you get elected?
I mean, to me the best thing the Vice President's done is to talk about, you know, dramatically intensifying the war on cancer, making preschool universal, increasing access to college by helping people save without tax consequences, what he would do to make America a safer country, what he would do in communities to have faith-based organizations cooperate with governments more.
I think these are interesting ideas about how you build on the progress the country's made the last six and a half years. So I would say to everyone, use whatever slogans you want, but tell us where you stand. I think that's the most important thing.
Q. Mr. President, the economy is going great, and in a new USA Today/CNN poll this week your approval rating was at a very healthy 58 percent. But that same poll showed that by 50 percent to 38 percent Americans said they wanted to see a change from Clinton Administration policies, not a continuation of them. What do you think accounts for that sentiment for change? And do you think it means that you present something of a mixed blessing to Mrs. Clinton and Vice President Gore in their campaigns next year?
A. No. I think what that means is people think things are going well, but they want to change a policy. So I think that's right. If you ask me, if you ask me that question and you word it in that way, I'd be in the 50 percent because I think that my own view is that in a -- particularly in a dynamic time when things are changing, you should want continued change. But is -- the question is should we change in a way that builds on what has been done and goes beyond it, which is what I would argue.
Or should you change and go back to the policies we were following when we had $290 billion deficits and we averaged over 7 percent employment for 12 years? I mean, I think that's really the question the American people have to ask themselves. Is -- I think change is good.
The great thing about this country is that it works best when it's sort of in a perpetual stage of renewal. So I would, myself, as a citizen, I would vote against somebody who said, 'Vote for me and I'll keep it just like it is, everything that Bill Clinton did is exactly what I'll do.' I would vote against that candidate because I do not believe that is the right thing to do. But what I think we should do is we should build on what the progress of the last six years, and go beyond it. And not adopt a completely different approach which has been proven not to work.
So all I want the American people to do is to remember what it was like before, think what it's like now, recognize that ideas and policies have consequences, and you know, the American people usually get it right. That's why we're all still around here after more than 200 years.
Q. In your last press conference, sir, with Prime Minister Ehud Barak, you mentioned you wanted better normalized relations with Syria. Now have you received any response, positive response or indication from Syria toward that? And on Iran, can you share with us the Administration views of the last events and administrations in Iran?
A. Well, on Syria let me say I -- the only thing I can tell you is that the statements, at least, that have been coming out of Syria have been quite encouraging in terms of the regard that President Assad seems to have for the Prime Minister and the willingness, the openness that there is to negotiating and moving toward peace, so I'm encouraged by that.
And on Iran, frankly I'm reluctant to say anything for fear that it will be used in a way that's not hopeful to the forces of openness and reform. I think that people everywhere, particularly younger people, hope that they will be able to pursue their religious convictions and their personal dreams in an atmosphere of greater freedom that still allows them to be deeply loyal to their nation. And I think the Iranian people obviously love their country and are proud of its history and have enormous potential. And I just hope they find a way to work through all this, and I believe they will.
Q. You mentioned the Patients' Bill of Rights. It seems like that was an argument by both parties over providing more for people who already are lucky enough to have health insurance. And in fact neither party dealt with some very fundamental issues that energized you and the First Lady five and six years ago. My question is, with such a robust economy and the budget surpluses, if not now, when? And if not you, who would provide the leadership to provide for those folks?
A. Yes, but I think the bigger question is how. That is, it is true that just as we predicted in 1993 and 1994, that the percentage of people who have health insurance on the job is going down. Just as we said it would, if nothing was done.
So what we have tried to do is to isolate discrete populations that seem to be most in need and try to offer them help. In the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, we reached bipartisan agreement on a proposal that would fund providing health insurance for up to five million more children through state-designed programs.
Now, I've been a little disappointed, and I'm not being critical of any of the states either here, but I've been a little disappointed that the uptake on the program has been a little slow. That is, I would have thought by now we'd have almost three million of those five million children enrolled already, because we've got the money there. And we're well behind that.
So we are looking at whether there are things we can do at the national level to work with the states to simplify access to the children's health insurance programs that the states have set up. But I also had a talk with Senator Kennedy the other day who believes that for little or no more extra money we could actually adjust the program and take in several million more children. So the children are the biggest group.
Then I have a proposal, as you know, that's part of my Medicare reform proposal that I didn't mention today but I want to reiterate it, that would allow the most vulnerable group of people without health insurance, people between the ages of 55 and 65, to buy into the Medicare system in a way that would not compromise the integrity of the system. So I think that is quite important. In addition to that, there are a lot of states, or excuse me, there are some states -- Tennessee was the first state to do this -- which are allowing lower-income working families to buy into their Medicaid programs on a sliding scale.
So if all these things were done, we would dramatically reduce the number of people without health insurance, and will eventually probably get down to the -- . . . if we keep pushing in this direction, getting down to the point where the largest group of people without health insurance are young, single people who believe that they're going to live forever and be healthy forever and don't want to bear the cost. And we'll have to think about them, what to do, but what I think the best thing to do is to try to get as many kids as we can covered and then try to get these people who are out of the work force, who are older, but they're not old enough to get Medicare, to get them at least where they can all afford on the sliding scale to buy into the Medicare program. . . .
Q. Sir, you've stressed that you have plenty and yet for some time your political career has enjoyed the benefits of support from two people in particular: the Vice President and the First Lady, two people who are now in a position to expect some support from you. I'm wondering what you feel you owe those two people in terms of political support and as you plan your schedule in the weeks and months ahead, how you'll balance that assistance against your job as President and, finally, how you personally are adjusting to what people might think is an interesting shift in role.
A. Well, I will do whatever I'm asked to do, basically. I'll try to be helpful. And if I can be helpful, I will be. But I think it's -- the best thing I can do for anyone who is -- generally shares our ideas, part of our party, trying to move the country forward, is to continue to be a good President and take care of our country.
But I don't mind hard work and I don't mind long hours -- and I find myself apparently unlike some of my predecessors -- but I just read what you all say about it, but I don't feel myself winding down. I feel myself keying up. I want to do more. I want to try to make sure that I give the American people as much as I can every day. So I've got plenty of energy and I'll do whatever I'm asked to do. I owe them a great deal.
I mean I think Al Gore -- everybody in this room knows that he's had far more responsibility, and gotten more done, than any Vice President in history. Nobody's ever had a role that even approximates that. I don't think the American people know that yet. But I know that. And he deserves a lot of credit for what he's done. And he has my friendship and my support. . . .
And of course I did an interview and I talked about Hillary and this road. If she decides to do this, I will do whatever I can do and if she's successful I will happily go to the Senate spouse's meeting if that's part of the job. I think the -- I have never known anybody who didn't run for office who was a more effective, more consistently committed, completely passionate public citizen than her. . . .
Q. Mr. President, in that same vein sir, as the spotlight shifts from you to your Vice President and to your wife, are you likely to be content drifting slowly off stage? Or do you think that someday you will want to run for office, some office, again? . . .
A. I don't have any idea. I really, I don't -- let me just say, I love this job. I love it. Even on the bad days, all of a sudden you can do something good for the country, you can do something good for the future. I have loved doing this. And I have given it every ounce of my energy and ability and judgment and I have -- I feel very fortunate.
But we have a system that I frankly agree with, even though I'm in pretty good shape, we have a system that says the President gets two terms and then the President has to go find something else to do with his life. And there are lots of other worthy things to do. And I was a very happy person before I became President. I've never had any trouble finding something interesting to do that I believed in, and I will do my best to use the opportunity and the gift the American people gave me to serve in this position, to be a useful citizen of my country and the world for the rest of my life.
And I have no doubt that they'll be some way that I can do that. And I'm frankly kind of excited about it. I mean it's a new challenge. I'll have to think in a different way and do a different way. Will I miss a lot of the things about this job? Yes, I'll even miss all of you, believe it or not. But, and then -- but I'm just grateful that I've had the chance to serve and that the results have been good for our people and for our country and I think for the world. . . .
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton pondering a question yesterday at his news conference. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (87%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (85%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); POLITICS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); FAMILY (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); MEDICARE (66%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (66%); AGING (66%); SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (63%); TAX LAW (62%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



513 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Barak on Europe's Role

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, July 21

 BODY:
The Israeli leader, Ehud Barak, told Prime Minister Tony Blair today that the allied effort to halt tyranny in Kosovo showed that Britain and the European Union could play a significant role in providing conditions for peacemaking in the Middle East.
"The Kosovo crisis and the way it was led by President Clinton and Tony Blair provide an excellent example of how free-world leadership should act in the global arena," the Israeli said after a breakfast meeting with Mr. Blair en route home from Washington. 
 Speaking in the garden of 10 Downing Street, Mr. Barak praised the Europeans and Americans for defining "a clear line" that a tyrant could not cross without international retaliation.
"I believe this is important for the back yard of Europe, the Balkans," he said, "but it is maybe more important for any potential future despots anywhere around the world."
Mr. Blair left no doubt that he saw the Israeli succession, with Mr. Barak replacing Benjamin Netanyahu as Prime Minister, as a plus for the peace effort.
"There are a whole set of circumstances which have come together, not least with the election of the new Government in Israel, which allows us to move forward," Mr. Blair said.
He pledged full British backing, saying, "I just wanted to put on record our admiration for what he has achieved so far and my 101 percent support for all that he is doing for Israel and the Middle East peace process."
Asked about the Barak visit during a later appearance in the House of Commons, Mr. Blair said he was "very impressed" by the new Israeli leader and "pleased that he felt that Britain and indeed the E.U. could play a part in trying to bring about peace in the Middle East." He added, "And we will certainly be willing to do so."
In his maiden voyage to Washington as Israel's Prime Minister, Mr. Barak had extensive talks with President Clinton, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and members of Congress.
He said he had set a target of 15 months for achieving a comprehensive framework for peace in the Middle East that would encompass the Wye accord, "final status" arrangements with the Palestinians that would decide the borders of a Palestinian entity, the withdrawal of Israeli troops from southern Lebanon and an agreement with Syria.
Today he said he highly appreciated the "positive signs" from Syria since he took office earlier this month, and promised to negotiate with the Palestinians in good faith.
"I think I can deliver," he said. "I think the time is right for achieving a peace of the brave between Israel and all its neighbors, including Syria. Time is of the essence for the whole process. We cannot sit idly and wait for the whole process to be solved somehow magically."
He cautioned that his hope of major progress toward a comprehensive peace within 15 months was more a goal than a rigid deadline.
"I won't ask for a medal if it takes nine months," he said. "But nor will I jump from a tower if it takes 24." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPE (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; GREAT BRITAIN; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); ISRAEL (97%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); EUROPE (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-ISRAEL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PEACE PROCESS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: HOGE, WARREN; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) EHUD BARAK (92%); TONY BLAIR (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



514 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: A Speaker Under Pressure Beseeches His Party's Members

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21

 BODY:
One after another, all afternoon, House Republican dissidents were summoned to the office of Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, who sought their votes to pass a $792 billion tax cut, the centerpiece of the leadership's agenda.
Mr. Hastert asked what problems they had with the bill. He discussed economics. He talked about the importance of tax cutting to the Republican Party. He told skeptics that the bill was only an opening step, a bargaining position in the negotiations yet to come with President Clinton. 
 Still, some Republican moderates held out throughout the long afternoon and into the evening, until many were satisifed by a concession linking part of the tax cut to a reduction in the national debt.
The one-on-one sessions were just one element of an intense lobbying campaign waged by Mr. Hastert and his leadership team as they tried to keep an assortment of Republican moderates and conservatives from jeopardizing a piece of legislation that was supposed to be the crown jewel of the Republican program.
At stake was not just the Republican agenda but also the credibility of Mr. Hastert as Speaker. And he came close to pointedly telling his colleagues just that. Republicans said that on Tuesday, at the party's morning caucus, he told them in unusually personal terms that he needed their votes for the tax bill.
One Republican involved in the vote-gathering said House leaders had also turned to officials of the Republican National Committee and to party donors, asking them to telephone members. The message was implicit: that campaign support for the holdouts could be in jeopardy.
And on Tuesday, when the 40 or so moderate Republicans who call themselves the Tuesday Group emerged from their weekly lunch, they found lobbyists from the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Association of Homebuilders waiting for them, to argue in favor of the tax cut.
Part of the difficulty for the leaders was the pure arithmetic of pushing anything through a House in which the Republicans hold one of the smallest majorities of this century. Their edge is only five seats after Representative Michael P. Forbes defected to the Democrats on Saturday, charging that his party was run by extremists. Uncertain whether they would draw any Democratic votes over to their tax bill, the Republicans could afford to lose only four votes of their own.
The day was made more difficult by the fact that tax cuts, which once served as the glue holding together the various elements of the Republican Party, no longer work like cement. In the new age of surplus politics, some moderates say they are determined not to do anything that might cause renewed budget deficits.
"This is where the rubber hits the road," declared Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan, who had been pushing for assurances that the tax cut would not relegate debt reduction to second place and risk deficits' return. "These are real decisions on budget strategy and tax changes, and we need to be honest with the American people about where this debate is headed."
On the other side of the Republican spectrum, some conservatives as well were threatening to vote against the bill. Their problem was that it would not fully eliminate the so-called marriage penalty, which results in some married couples' paying more in taxes than they together would pay if they were single.
But Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, insisted that the leadership would yet prevail. "You always know how many horses are in the herd," Mr. Armey said as he went off to another meeting in early evening. "It's just a question of how long it takes to get them into the barn." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (58%); FRED UPTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



515 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Government Seeks an Ad Ban and Label Warning for Cigars

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21

 BODY:
Responding to the rapidly growing popularity of cigars, the Federal Trade Commission recommended today that Congress impose restrictions on them like those already on cigarettes, including health warning labels and a ban on television and radio advertising.
Congress has been reluctant to toughen restrictions on tobacco products, and there is little broadcast advertising for cigars. 
 But industry executives and Government officials said today that the agency's call for uniform health labels might be adopted, particularly as some states have begun to impose a variety of warning labels, a patchwork approach that the cigar industry considers burdensome.
In 1989, California became the first state to require health warnings on cigars, and earlier this year Massachusetts became the second. But critics have said the California warnings are not strong enough, and the two states require different labels. Moreover, some industry executives fear that if other states try to impose their own warnings, cigar boxes could begin to resemble a well-traveled suitcase covered with unsightly labels.
Federal officials also said the requirements in Massachusetts were only for machine-made cigars, not hand-rolled ones, and since there are often no requirements on placement of warnings, they have been put where they cannot be easily read.
The Federal Trade Commission's recommendations were approved 4 to 0. Robert Pitofsky, the chairman of the commission, said the agency had the authority to order the industry to post health warnings but decided instead to make the recommendations to Congress as the agency had done in the case of cigarettes.
The commission recommended that Congress consider rotating three warning labels to be put conspicuously on cigars, boxes and advertising:
*Warning: Regular cigar smoking can cause cancers of the mouth and throat, even if you do not inhale.
*Warning: Inhaling cigar smoke can cause lung cancer. The more deeply you inhale, the greater your risk.
*Warning: Cigars are not a safe alternative to cigarettes.
The recommendations follow a sharp rise in cigar sales from 1993 to 1997, when consumption increased by almost 50 percent to more than five billion cigars. The trend reversed a 20-year slump.
The largest increase in cigar consumption has been among relatively well-to-do young and middle-aged men, but there have also been significant increases among teen-agers and women, according to a study on the health effects of cigar smoking, which appeared last month in The New England Journal of Medicine.
That article, a study of 17,774 men of whom 1,546 smoked cigars, attributed the resurgence of cigar smoking to a widespread misperception that cigars are safer than cigarettes.
Studies by the National Cancer Institute and others have shown that cigar smoking can cause several forms of cancer and that cigar smoke contains the same toxic and carcinogenic constituents as cigarette smoke. The studies have also shown that cigar smokers face increased risks of heart and lung diseases and that cigars are therefore not safer than cigarettes.
The journal article also concluded that cigars had become more popular because they had been glamorized in advertisements and in movies and television shows. The trade commission called for health warnings to appear in print advertisements for cigars as they do for cigarettes.
Total marketing expenses of the five largest cigar makers, which constitute almost 90 percent of the national industry, grew by 32 percent to $41 million in 1997. Less than 1 percent of that marketing budget went for television and radio advertising, and today Mr. Pitofsky, the trade agency's chairman, said that the heart of the report was not the ban on such advertising but the new proposed labeling requirements.
While representatives of the cigar industry said a standard warning label could ease the problems associated with different state rules, they criticized the commission's report and others that have tied advertising to the rising popularity of cigars.
Norman F. Sharp, president of the Cigar Association of America, said that cigar consumption had been relatively stagnant over the last year and that the industry's marketing expenditures were a pittance compared to cigarette marketing. As a result of the California labeling law, Mr. Sharp said, health warnings already appear on about 96 percent of cigar packages.
Mr. Sharp said the increase in cigar consumption was largely a reflection of economic prosperity and renewed attention from the media.
"Cigars are now seen as one of life's little affordable luxuries, like beers from microbreweries and fine wine," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; CIGARS; LABELING AND LABELS; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION; RADIO COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (90%); PRODUCT LABELING (90%); CARCINOGENS (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); SMOKING (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); CANCER (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); TRENDS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MEN (78%); LUNG CANCER (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); APPROVALS (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); CONSUMPTION (66%); ORAL CANCER (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (51%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN NORMAN F SHARP (67%); ROBERT PITOFSKY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



516 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Soup Line to the Left, Armanis to the Right

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Prosperity Builds Mounds of Cast-Off Clothes" (front page, July 19): No doubt there are many people in rural areas in the United States who would be more than happy to take some of the surplus clothing donated to charities, much of which is being shipped overseas. Although it is a time of record prosperity in our country, there is a deep agricultural crisis and persistent unemployment in our rural areas. 
 Perhaps, as President Clinton suggested in his recent "poverty tour," we should refocus and intensify our efforts to assist those in need in these areas so that they may reap the benefits of our booming economy.
 
ROMAN M. HENDRICKSON
Poplar, Mont., July 19, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; RURAL AREAS; AGRICULTURE; UNEMPLOYMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CHARITIES (70%); 

PERSON: HENDRICKSON, ROMAN H BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



517 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Soup Line to the Left, Armanis to the Right

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A July 19 front-page article on the rise in clothing donations to charities mentions the decrease in the price of women's clothes as a contributing factor. This price reduction is likely made possible by the use of sweatshop labor in the United States and abroad. 
 If companies were forced to disclose the conditions under which our clothing is made, consumers could make better informed choices. And if workers were paid a living wage, clothing prices would rise to reflect their real value, forcing consumers to make more conservative purchasing decisions.
Meanwhile, retail clothing racks are bulging with inexpensive clothing, making it difficult to resist the urge to stock up on garments that become virtually disposable.
It is paradoxical that much of the donated clothing produced by exploited workers ends up being shipped back to its country of origin.
 
FREDRICA RUDELL
New Rochelle, N.Y., July 19, 1999
 
The writer is chairwoman of the department of marketing and international business, Iona College.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jeffrey Fulvimari/CWC-I)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WOMEN; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PHILANTHROPY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WOMEN (90%); CHARITIES (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (88%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); PHILANTHROPY (88%); GARMENT WORKERS (88%); CHARITABLE GIVING (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); SWEATSHOPS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); LIVING WAGE (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%); 

PERSON: RUDELL, FREDRICA

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



518 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: China Said to Prepare Ban on Sect; Protests Go On

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Thursday, July 22

 BODY:
Ratcheting up its campaign against an amorphous but fast-growing spiritual movement, the Chinese Government is expected to announce today a nationwide ban against the movement, Buddhist Law, according to reports in three Hong Kong newspapers.
The papers said President Jiang Zemin had decided to impose the ban at an emergency meeting of the Politburo on Monday. The independent daily Sing Tao quoted the Government directive as saying the group had "engaged in superstition and disrupted public order, thereby damaging social stability." 
 The Government began a crackdown on Monday, rounding up more than 100 prominent members of the sect in 14 cities, according to members of the group and a Hong Kong-based human rights organization.
That prompted protests in Beijing and several other cities as thousands of followers vented their anger against the Government's actions, several members said.
As they did once before, in April, members of the group, known in Chinese as Falun Gong, are taking their grievances to the doorstep of the Communist Party. Early today and on Wednesday, members tried to mass in front of the leaders' compound in central Beijing, a member said. The police quickly herded them into buses and took them away.
This morning, the police could be seen shooing a small crowd of people away from the sidewalk facing the ceremonial entrance to Zhongnanhai, the walled compound that houses President Jiang Zemin and other leaders.
It was a silent vigil near the compound on April 25 by 10,000 followers protesting harrassment and demanding official recognition that catapulted the group from obscurity to the top of the agenda for nervous party leaders.
Falun Gong had managed to mount the biggest illegal rally in Beijing since the 1989 Tiananmen democracy movement, without any warning to the authorities, suggesting formidable powers of mobilization. Furthermore, the group says it has 100 million members around the world.
That number is impossible to verify, particularly in a group that claims no formal organization aside from an allegiance to the teachings of its founder, Li Hongzhi, who relies heavily on the Internet to communicate messages to his followers.
Mr. Li, 48, a former grain bureau clerk in northeastern China who is now based in the United States, started Falun Gong in 1992 as a fusion of the ancient Chinese practice of qigong -- the channeling of vital energies through breathing exercises -- with elements of Buddhism and Taoism.
The group's members insist they are interested only in physical and moral uplift and eschew politics. But if Falun Gong's rapid response to the crackdown is any indication, the Chinese authorities may have reason to worry.
Crowds ranging from a few dozen to several thousand demonstrated Wednesday in 30 cities across China, including Shanghai, Tianjin, Dalian, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Wuhan, the Hong Kong-based Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China reported.
Those rallies came despite a blanket of silence about the detentions in the official Chinese news media. The police declined to comment on the detentions and protests.
Falun Gong is only one of several quasi-religious movements that have emerged in China since Deng Xiaoping began reforming the economy in 1979 and social controls were relaxed. With its mixture of martial arts and mysticism, it bears enough resemblance to the popular movements that wreaked havoc in the final decades of the last imperial dynasty to make the Communist authorities apprehensive.
As China enters a period of fresh social and economic upheaval, with faltering state enterprises laying off millions of workers and rural incomes stalling, Beijing may have concluded that Falun Gong is too much of a threat.
On Wednesday, hundreds of Falun Gong members began gathering at dawn in the tree-lined streets near Zhongnanhai. Before a crowd could coalesce, the police hustled them on to buses and removed them quickly, said Wang Xiaoyan, the wife of one of the detained leaders, Ji Liewu.
"They wanted to tell the Government that there's no reason to arrest students of Falun Gong," said Ms. Wang, who spoke to several participants by telephone. "As people got near Zhongnanhai, the police were ready. They forced them to leave, to get on buses to take them away."
Ms. Wang said Wednesday that more than 1,000 Falun Gong members were being held in a football stadium outside Beijing. The Hong Kong rights group said people were also being held at two stadiums and other locations. From there, the group said, people were being sent back to their homes in the provinces.
A Hong Kong spokeswoman for Falun Gong described a similar sequence of events in Guangzhou, in the south. Roughly 2,000 demonstrators congregated in front of a government building early Wednesday morning, she said. The police forced most onto buses and they were taken to an unknown destination.
In central Beijing this morning, the fear of unrest hung heavy in the torpid air. Hundreds of riot police and soldiers maintained their positions around Zhongnanhai. Water-cannon trucks were parked in courtyards across the street from the compound, while riot shields were lined up in gleaming rows.
On Wednesday, the police closed a main thoroughfare on the western edge of the compound, causing traffic jams that paralyzed much of downtown. Today, pedestrians and bicyclists were allowed back, but cars were still blocked. On the streets nearby, scores of people squatted on the sidewalk, watching the scene curiously. One or two appeared to be meditating, but it was unclear whether they were acolytes of Falun Gong.
One reason the Government is so wary of this group is that its members blend seamlessly into ordinary society. Unlike the flag-waving, slogan-shouting students of 1989, Falun Gong followers tend to be middle-aged people -- a large percentage female, and many retired -- who make the most unlikely of rebels.
"We simply follow the law and principles that Master Li Hongzhi taught us," said Sophie Xiao, the spokeswoman in Hong Kong.
While the Government has not yet commented on the crackdown, it continues its campaign of indirect criticism. The main television news program Wednesday evening carried lengthy coverage of a speech by a senior Communist Party ideologue, Gong Yuzhi, in which he denounced the spread of "feudal superstition" in Chinese society.
Such denunciations will not persuade people like Ms. Wang to abandon her allegiance to Falun Gong.
"I can only wait for news of my husband," she said. "But I'll definitely continue practicing Falun Gong. We believe that Teacher Li is the truth."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Plainclothesmen took a man into custody yesterday as they broke up a Buddhist Law protest near the Chinese leaders' compound in Beijing. (Associated Press)(pg. A1) As a Buddhist sect tried to rally near the leadership compound in Beijing, policemen yesterday inspected the identification cards and belongings of several women in Tiananmen Square before taking them away in a van. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: BUDDHIST LAW (RELIGIOUS CULT) FALUN GONG (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUDDHIST LAW (RELIGIOUS CULT) FALUN GONG (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS RELIGION (94%); CULTS & SECTS (91%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (76%); RIOTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); LI HONGZHI ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



519 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Concessions by G.O.P. Leaders Breathe Life Into Tax-Cut Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Thursday, July 22

 BODY:
After a day of frantic arm-twisting and deal-making, Republican leaders in the House took a big step toward salvaging their cherished tax-cutting bill early today, winning a critical procedural vote rewriting the legislation to quell a revolt by party moderates.
Prospects for passage of the $792 billion tax cut improved substantially after Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and other senior Republicans pressured, cajoled and finally made a deal with about a dozen moderates who said the tax cut was too big and left too little money for debt reduction and domestic spending. 
 The defection of as few as five of the moderates could still leave the Republicans short of the votes needed to pass the bill, given their thin majority in the House and the nearly united opposition of the Democrats.
Democrats said the bill disproportionately benefits the wealthy and would do nothing to address the more pressing problem of assuring the long-term viability of Social Security and Medicare.
After stalling throughout Wednesday, the House leadership brought the bill to the floor for the procedural vote, a test on the rules governing the debate, around midnight. It cleared that hurdle by a vote of 219 to 208, as two Republicans voted with the Democrats. A vote on final passage of the bill is scheduled for later today.
The procedural vote came after the two sides spent hours meeting in a conference room just off the House floor cobbling together a compromise. Under the agreement, the central element of the House tax-cutting package -- a 10 percent reduction in personal income tax rates -- would be made contingent on the Government reducing the national debt.
The tax cut under consideration in the House would be the largest since 1981. Many Republicans have been calling for another big tax cut for years, and have stepped up their demands as the Government has moved from deficit to surplus.
At a news conference on Wednesday, President Clinton repeated his threat to veto either the House or the Senate version, saying they would endanger the nation's long-term prosperity. Pages A16 and A17.
With nearly $1 trillion in projected surpluses up for grabs in the next decade, Republican leaders say allocating nearly all of it to a tax cut would help limit the growth in Federal spending and provide a potent campaign issue in the 2000 elections.
"Today we say to the American people, 'We're sorry we overcharged you,' " said Representative Deborah Pryce, Republican of Ohio, kicking off the debate on the floor. "So we're going to give back some of your hard-earned tax dollars."
But just passing the bill in the House became a high-stakes drama. On the line was not just the fate of the bill, but the ability of Mr. Hastert and his lieutenants to hold together their razor-thin and fractious majority.
The gridlock in the House came as a $778 billion tax cut package with different features from the House version won bipartisan approval from the Senate Finance Committee.
Two centrist Democrats, Senators John B. Breaux of Louisiana and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, joined all 11 Republicans in voting in favor of the bill, which would provide somewhat more tax relief to the middle class than the House bill. The other seven Democrats on the committee voted against the bill.
Mr. Clinton wants to limit any tax cut to around $300 billion and focus its benefits on low and middle income people. The House plan in particular, Mr. Clinton said, risked a return of Federal budget deficits, fails to leave enough money for debt reduction and would require deep cuts in education, health and other programs.
"We must decide whether to invest the surplus to strengthen America over the long term or to squander it for the short term," he said.
Mr. Clinton indirectly encouraged the Republican moderates in the House, saying he would work with both parties to find a compromise that provides for a smaller tax cut once Congress and the Administration settle on a plan to shore up the two entitlement programs for the elderly, Social Security and Medicare. Both programs will face increasing financial pressure as the baby-boom generation ages and retires.
"I will work with any member of either party willing to put first things first," Mr. Clinton said at the news conference at the White House. "We can have a tax cut and do the right thing for the long term in America."
The compromise plan under consideration in the House late Wednesday was complicated, but spoke to the main concern of many of the Republican moderates -- that the party was not doing enough to reduce the national debt.
The national debt held by the public -- the portion that is most economically important -- is about $3.6 trillion, and is the legacy of years of budget deficits in which the Government had to borrow money by selling Treasury bonds.
This year Washington will pay interest on those bonds of about $229 billion, or about 14 percent of the total Federal budget. The total Federal debt, including money owed by the Government to Social Security, is $5.6 trillion.
There was considerable confusion about details of the plan agreed to by the moderates. In general, it would require the nation's total debt or interest payments on the debt to decline for the proposed reductions in income-tax rates to take effect.
The bill calls for each of the personal income tax brackets -- which start at 15 percent and rise to 39.6 percent -- to be reduced by 10 percent each over the next decade in five steps. In 2009, the 15 percent bracket would be to 13.5 percent and the 39.6 percent bracket would be 36.2 percent. The provision, the largest in the bill, would cost the Treasury $375 billion over 10 years.
The compromise would allow the first of the five phased-in reductions to take effect as planned in 2001, but to delay further reductions in the rates if the debt had not declined. The money that would then be saved by not enacting the tax cut would go to debt reduction instead under the plan.
"I think we have a deal," said Representative Marge Roukema, a New Jersey Republican who was among the moderates holding out for changes in the tax bill.
"It's not everything, but it surely makes it more realistic in terms of relating the across-the-board tax cuts to the surplus," Ms. Roukema said.
The change, however, could prove politically controversial and difficult for the Internal Revenue Service to administer. Democrats said voters would not appreciate being promised a tax cut and then having it taken away if the debt reduction targets are not met.
And they said it would be difficult for the I.R.S. to prepare tax-return forms and make technical changes to income tax regulations if the rates were uncertain from year to year.
In addition to the reduction in income tax rates, the House bill includes a reduction in the top capital gains tax rate to 15 percent from 20 percent.
The bill, written by Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, would also repeal the inheritance tax on large estates, create deductions for health insurance costs and reduce the so-called marriage penalty, which forces many two-income couples to pay more in taxes than if they were single.
The measure approved by the Senate Finance Committee on Wednesday is somewhat more favorable to middle-income taxpayers than the House bill.
It would reduce the bottom income tax bracket of 15 percent to 14 percent, extend the bracket to those with higher incomes and all but eliminate the marriage penalty.
The committee defeated an alternative proposal introduced by Democrats that would have cut taxes by $290 billion over 10 years, the highest level that Mr. Clinton has said he would accept.
"I think we ought to be doing as much as we can to return this overpayment, this surplus, to the people," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican majority leader.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: With bipartisan support, the Senate Finance Committee yesterday approved a $778 billion tax cut package giving more tax relief to the middle class than the House bill. Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, right, met with Senators Don Nickles, the assistant majority leader, and Phil Gramm. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) LEGISLATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VETO (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDICARE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); INCOME TAX (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) TRENT LOTT (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); DEBORAH PRYCE (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



520 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 2;Column 4;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Bear Stearns Income Is Up, As Fees GrowFrom Trading

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Bear Stearns Companies said yesterday that profit in its most recent quarter rose 56 percent, to a record, as a stock market rally and a comeback in mortgage bonds lifted trading and commission revenue.
Net income rose to $269.1 million, or $1.85 a diluted share, in the period, which ended June 30 and was the fourth quarter of the company's fiscal year. Analysts expected the company to earn $1.44 a share, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. 
 A year earlier, Bear Stearns earned $172.3 million, or $1.18 a share. The period a year earlier included a pretax charge of $108 million related to litigation involving the defunct brokerage firm A. R. Baron. The special charge amounted to 42 cents a share, and taking that into account profit was up 15.6 percent in the 1999 quarter.
Revenue net of interest expense rose 24 percent, to $1.5 billion.
Shares of Bear Stearns fell 6.25 cents yesterday, to $43.6875.
The profit at Bear Stearns mirrored that of its Wall Street rivals as rising stocks and relatively low interest rates in the quarter encouraged investors to buy securities and supported a boom in mergers.
Return on equity, an important measure of profitability, was 29 percent in the quarter, among the highest on Wall Street and topping the 25.4 percent posted by Merrill Lynch & Company. The Bear Stearns figure was 21.8 percent a year earlier and 23.7 percent in the third quarter, which ended March 31.
Trading revenue rose 45 percent, to a record $712.8 million, helped by activity in the derivatives and mortgage-backed and high-yield bond markets.
Commissions rose 18 percent, to $273.3 million, amid a 31 percent surge in average daily trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange. The more active trading also helped the securities-processing business of Bear Stearns, the largest such operation in the United States.
The firm arranged $1.63 billion of stock offerings during the quarter, up 58 percent from a year earlier. Fees for stock issues are double those of bond offerings.
Bear Stearns also advised on $29.5 billion of mergers during the quarter, up from $24 billion in the quarter a year earlier. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article by Bloomberg News in Business Day yesterday about second-quarter profit at Bear Stearns misstated the reason for a $108 million charge taken in the second quarter of 1998. The charge was related to a lawsuit involving the firm's investment banking division, not litigation involving A. R. Baron, a defunct brokerage firm for which Bear Stearns acted as a clearing agent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS (BSC) BEAR STEARNS COS INC (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); FIRST CALL CORP (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS COS (BSC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); LITIGATION (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



521 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 2; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Living the 8-Bit Dream in a 32-Bit World

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

 BODY:
AS a mathematician at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Steve Judd harnesses the power of Unix work stations and Cray supercomputers to detect and prevent the proliferation of chemical and biological weapons.
When he goes home, he basks in the light of his 15-year-old Commodore computer, a one-megahertz machine with 64 kilobytes of RAM. It can move chunks of data in the same size packages as a Nintendo Game Boy and has 3 percent of the memory capacity of a Palm III organizer. 
 Mr. Judd creates three-dimensional graphics on his obsolete Commodore and calls it a real programming challenge. "It's like building a radio from scratch," he said. "You are designing from the most fundamental level. You have to take advantage of every ounce of the computer."
Fender Tucker, who runs a Commodore software company called Loadstar, said, "Commodores are for people who aren't all that sure that the computer revolution has made our lives better."
Thousands of people appear to have turned to old computers (or stuck with them) out of a feeling of nostalgia, a desire for simplicity and an appreciation for classic design. In the realm of digital machines, where today's computer is out of date tomorrow, there can be great satisfaction in taking a digital Model T out for a spin.
Douglas Cotton, editor of Commodore World magazine, estimates that a million Commodores are still in service around the world. Their owners include people who remember their first computers more fondly than their first girlfriends (most users are men), as well as people who have handed them down to their children or have set up miniature computer museums in their basements, much to the dismay of their wives.
And it's not only the Commodore. Old Apple computers and Sinclair Spectrums are also popular.
"Some people like to drive classic cars, like the 60's-era Mustang or the original Beetle," said Scott Gamon, 24, who still uses an Apple II GS. "I think the main reason is that the cars are classic vehicles that made history. The Apple II computer is the same in the computer world."
Some owners are active users of the old computers, and some participate in international programming competitions. These are not people who can't afford a new computer or don't know how to use them. Many actually own up-to-date computers that are hundreds of times as fast and much more powerful than their old ones, but they keep their eight-bit machines around to remind them how they started with computers.
"If I didn't buy that machine with my paper-route money when I was 11, I likely wouldn't have gotten into computers, a university scholarship and a decent-paying job," said Robyn Harbron of Thunder Bay, Ontario.
Mr. Cotton, who is also technical director of Creative Micro Designs, a Commodore hardware company, said, "We have a number of people who have called us up saying, 'Windows is nice for work, but I miss that old Commodore.' "
A number of fans of eight-bit machines are sophisticated programmers who praise the computers' timeless elegance and efficiency. "You don't say Mozart, Shakespeare or van Gogh are good for their time," Mr. Judd said. "They are just plain good. I make the claim for the Commodore 64."
All software, whether Windows 98 or Lotus Notes or Doom, is based on simple mathematical calculations like addition and multiplication. Computers express information in binary numbers; each digit is a 0 or a 1, and each place is a power of 2. Eight-bit computers handle data in binary numbers that have eight digits. For large calculations, an eight-bit computer has to break down the problem into simpler pieces, and that is one factor that makes eight-bit computers slow, compared with modern 32-bit machines.
But the biggest reason for the sluggishness is that those old computer chips did not have many transistors, or switches, and the transistors they did have were far apart, lengthening the paths signals had to travel. Modern chips pack transistors tightly together to speed up processing times. In addition, internal clocks, which provide the heartbeat for computer instructions, are several hundred times faster in today's PCs than in yesterday's eight-bit computers.
Many users insist that the eight-bit classics are on the verge of becoming collectibles. Searches on auction sites like Ebay unearth hundreds of items in the classic realm, like floppy disks, printers and actual computers, for generally low prices.
Proponents of trailing-edge technology have their own magazines, conventions, weekly on-line discussions, Web sites and newsletters. In Europe, dozens of programmers meet regularly for competition parties, where they see who can stretch the capacities of the eight-bit computers the furthest. Some are on a crusade, contending that the old computers should be preserved for posterity. The Vintage Technology Center, a computer nostalgia group in Santa Clara, Calif., recently announced plans to build a supercomputer out of Commodore 64's. "Sixty-four 64's" is its motto.
All of that would be mere nostalgia, or a hobby like collecting Pez memorabilia, except that the eight-bit die-hards actually use their computers. In a sense, their devotion to the simple machines is an active refutation of the Wintel world of quick obsolescence that frustrates many computer users.
In the early days, programmers looked for creative software solutions instead of glitzier hardware. "In a way it was simpler back then," said Lane Denson, a Nashville farmer who has set up a computer museum in his basement. "You didn't have 20 or 30 sound cards and you didn't have to worry about upgrading every other week."
At a time when mega, giga and tetra are the popular prefixes, the software available for the kilobyte clunkers is surprisingly sophisticated. Commodore users can send faxes via modems, use laser printers and use a mouse to maneuver through an operating system that looks a lot like Windows. And their computers can act as hosts for Web pages. Accessories that increase the capacities of the old machines are also available, including one that speeds them up by a factor of 20.
Maurice Randall, who has an auto repair shop in Charlotte, Mich., uses his Commodore for all facets of daily computing, for things like designing newsletters and writing HTML pages. "If you don't need to do a lot of high-powered graphical work, they're perfect," Mr. Randall said. "They don't crash. They don't have viruses, and they don't break down as often."
The most popular eight-bit computers are the Commodore 64, of which 20 million units were sold from 1982 to 1992; the Sinclair ZX Spectrum, which was the most popular computer in Britain in the mid-1980's, and the Apple II line, which went on the market in 1977 and became immensely popular for its educational software. Production had stopped for all these models by the early 1990's because of pressure from the I.B.M. compatibles.
Now as then, the various computer camps are fierce rivals. European Spectrum fans periodically invade on-line discussion groups of Commodore users, and vice versa -- each group engaging in the electronic equivalent of nose-thumbing.
"You can talk about my mom all you want, but don't insult my computer," Mr. Judd said.
Many programmers insist that the limits of the old machines force programmers to be more resourceful. Many of them, like Mr. Randall, who spends 40 to 50 hours each week programming, write in assembly code, the most fundamental programming language, because it takes up less space than higher-level languages.
"Using assembly language, I can make the code real tight and small on a Commodore," Mr. Randall said. The program he uses to send faxes via modem is only 56 kilobytes in size. His software releases, including a fax program and an updated operating system that looks much like Windows, earn him more than $20,000 a year.
For some, eight-bit programming represents a return to computing as a personal experience and a move away from being a technodrone in an information economy. "Before, it was very much discovering and experimenting for your own benefit," said Mark Lair, 40, of Dallas. "Now we're in a service industry. Most of us programmers are providing for other people rather than ourselves."
But others acknowledge that there is not a high demand for eight-bit programmers. "Yes, I'm a Sinclair fan, but to earn a living, I need to remain up to date in a rapidly evolving industry," said Richard Jordan, 26, a programmer in Britain who owns several Spectrums.
Eight-bit computers draw their biggest chunk of fans because of the classic video games they play. Fans say the older games, unadorned by fancy graphics and sound effects, focused more on game play. The result, they contend, was games that transcend their technological simplicity.
A few times each month, Jeff Lewis, 35, goes into his basement to play some of the hundreds of Commodore 64 games he has accumulated. His wife, Dianna, refers to the computer, which is still connected to a working dot-matrix printer, as a "Commodore shrine." "She actually thinks I'm kind of nuts for keeping it up," said Mr. Lewis, who lives in a suburb of Cleveland. "I just tell her it's part of my childhood."
For all those who actually own old computers, there are hundreds of thousands more who pretend that they do by using a generation of emulators, which allow the 32-bit PC's to imitate primitive Commodores, Spectrums and Apples. Thousands of old games are available for downloading on the Web.
Despite the number of eight-bit admirers, the most dedicated enthusiasts sometimes bemoan the skewed demographics of their ranks. Oyvind Vevang, 20, of Haugesund, Norway, meets many friends though a common interest in classic video games, but they are almost all male. Mr. Vevang lamented, "If more girls were interested in this, I'd have one hell of a pickup trick!"
 
Site-Seeing: Oldies
Finding Them
 
If you want vintage computers or their components, there are several Web sites where you can investigate and purchase items. Here are a few:
 
CREATIVE MICRO DESIGN: www.cmdweb.com One of the largest Commodore hardware retailers, with a wide selection of computers, disk drives, software and devices.
 
READY ACCESS MEMORY: www.raminc
.com/ A specialist in Apple II and Macintosh hardware and accessories.
 
LOADSTAR: www.loadstar.com A distributor of new Commodore software to subscribers; publishes newsletter.
 
MAURICE RANDALL: people.delphi
.com/arca93/ A programmer who sells Commodore programs like fax software and an updated Windows-based interface.
 
COMMODORE EMULATOR: www
.fatal-design.com/ccs64/ Considered one of the best Windows-based Commodore 64 emulators (programs that mimic the 64 operating system).
 
SPECTRUM EMULATOR: www.philosys
.de/kunze/xzx/ One of the most complete Sinclair emulators for Windows, with excellent sound and graphics support.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Circuits on Thursday about Web sites that sell vintage computers or related accessories misstated the address of a site that offers a downloadable Windows version of an XZX Spectrum emulator program, which lets a modern computer simulate an eight-bit Spectrum Sinclair machine. It is: www.ics.uci.edu/savoiu/winxzx

GRAPHIC: Photos: The world of Commodore 64 fans includes Douglas Cotton, editor of Commodore World magazine and technical director of Creative Micro Designs. (Rob Kinmonth for The New York Times)(pg. G1); COMMODORE FAN -- Steve Judd uses state-of-the-art computers as a mathematician at Los Alamos National Laboratory, but he prefers a Commodore 64 at home. (Guy Ambrosino for The New York Times)(pg. G7)
 
Chart: "Commodore 64: Crunching With the Oldies"
The Commodore 64, first released in 1982, has maintained its popularity among a small group of dedicated users. Below is a comparison of the technical specifications for the original model alongside some more contemporary digital products.
 
PROCESSOR
Commodore 64: 8-bit
Nintendo Game Boy: 8-bit
Standard PC desktop: 32-bit
 
RANDOM ACCESS MEMORY
Commodore 64: 64 kilobytes
Palm III: 2,048 kilobytes (minimum)
 
CLOCK SPEED
Commodore 64:
1 megahertz
Standard PC desktop: 233 to 550 megahertz
 
MONITOR
Commodore: 16 colors
Standard PC video card: 65,536 colors
 
MUSCLE
Number of Commodore 64's it would take to get the processing strength and memory required
to run ...
MS-DOS: 15
Microsoft Word: 1,000
Lotus Notes: 4,000
(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (74%); 7974 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (74%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (74%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (74%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (74%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: APPLE COMPUTER INC; COMMODORE WORLD (MAGAZINE) APPLE INC (74%); NINTENDO CO LTD (57%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC; COMMODORE WORLD (MAGAZINE) LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); 

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8; COTTON, DOUGLAS STEVE JUDD (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



522 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Concessions by G.O.P. Leaders Breathe Life Into Tax-Cut Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Thursday, July 22

 BODY:
After a day of frantic arm-twisting and deal-making, Republican leaders in the House took a big step toward salvaging their cherished tax-cutting bill early today, winning a critical procedural vote rewriting the legislation to quell a revolt by party moderates.
Prospects for passage of the $792 billion tax cut improved substantially after Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and other senior Republicans pressured, cajoled and finally made a deal with about a dozen moderates who said the tax cut was too big and left too little money for debt reduction and domestic spending. 
 The defection of as few as five of the moderates could still leave the Republicans short of the votes needed to pass the bill, given their thin majority in the House and the nearly united opposition of the Democrats.
Democrats said the bill disproportionately benefits the wealthy and would do nothing to address the more pressing problem of assuring the long-term viability of Social Security and Medicare.
After stalling throughout Wednesday, the House leadership brought the bill to the floor for the procedural vote, a test on the rules governing the debate, around midnight. It cleared that hurdle by a vote of 219 to 208, as two Republicans voted with the Democrats. A vote on final passage of the bill is scheduled for later today.
The procedural vote came after the two sides spent hours meeting in a conference room just off the House floor cobbling together a compromise. Under the agreement, the central element of the House tax-cutting package -- a 10 percent reduction in personal income tax rates -- would be made contingent on the Government reducing the national debt.
The tax cut under consideration in the House would be the largest since 1981. Many Republicans have been calling for another big tax cut for years, and have stepped up their demands as the Government has moved from deficit to surplus.
At a news conference on Wednesday, President Clinton repeated his threat to veto either the House or the Senate version, saying they would endanger the nation's long-term prosperity. Pages A16 and A17.
With nearly $1 trillion in projected surpluses up for grabs in the next decade, Republican leaders say allocating nearly all of it to a tax cut would help limit the growth in Federal spending and provide a potent campaign issue in the 2000 elections.
"Today we say to the American people, 'We're sorry we overcharged you,' " said Representative Deborah Pryce, Republican of Ohio, kicking off the debate on the floor. "So we're going to give back some of your hard-earned tax dollars."
But just passing the bill in the House became a high-stakes drama. On the line was not just the fate of the bill, but the ability of Mr. Hastert and his lieutenants to hold together their razor-thin and fractious majority.
The gridlock in the House came as a $778 billion tax cut package with different features from the House version won bipartisan approval from the Senate Finance Committee.
Two centrist Democrats, Senators John B. Breaux of Louisiana and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, joined all 11 Republicans in voting in favor of the bill, which would provide somewhat more tax relief to the middle class than the House bill. The other seven Democrats on the committee voted against the bill.
Mr. Clinton wants to limit any tax cut to around $300 billion and focus its benefits on low and middle income people. The House plan in particular, Mr. Clinton said, risked a return of Federal budget deficits, fails to leave enough money for debt reduction and would require deep cuts in education, health and other programs.
"We must decide whether to invest the surplus to strengthen America over the long term or to squander it for the short term," he said.
Mr. Clinton indirectly encouraged the Republican moderates in the House, saying he would work with both parties to find a compromise that provides for a smaller tax cut once Congress and the Administration settle on a plan to shore up the two entitlement programs for the elderly, Social Security and Medicare. Both programs will face increasing financial pressure as the baby-boom generation ages and retires.
"I will work with any member of either party willing to put first things first," Mr. Clinton said at the news conference at the White House. "We can have a tax cut and do the right thing for the long term in America."
The compromise plan under consideration in the House late Wednesday was complicated, but spoke to the main concern of many of the Republican moderates -- that the party was not doing enough to reduce the national debt.
The national debt held by the public -- the portion that is most economically important -- is about $3.6 trillion, and is the legacy of years of budget deficits in which the Government had to borrow money by selling Treasury bonds.
This year Washington will pay interest on those bonds of about $229 billion, or about 14 percent of the total Federal budget. The total Federal debt, including money owed by the Government to Social Security, is $5.6 trillion.
There was considerable confusion about details of the plan agreed to by the moderates. In general, it would require the nation's total debt or interest payments on the debt to decline for the proposed reductions in income-tax rates to take effect.
The bill calls for each of the personal income tax brackets -- which start at 15 percent and rise to 39.6 percent -- to be reduced by 10 percent each over the next decade in five steps. In 2009, the 15 percent bracket would be to 13.5 percent and the 39.6 percent bracket would be 36.2 percent. The provision, the largest in the bill, would cost the Treasury $375 billion over 10 years.
The compromise would allow the first of the five phased-in reductions to take effect as planned in 2001, but to delay further reductions in the rates if the debt had not declined. The money that would then be saved by not enacting the tax cut would go to debt reduction instead under the plan.
"I think we have a deal," said Representative Marge Roukema, a New Jersey Republican who was among the moderates holding out for changes in the tax bill.
"It's not everything, but it surely makes it more realistic in terms of relating the across-the-board tax cuts to the surplus," Ms. Roukema said.
The change, however, could prove politically controversial and difficult for the Internal Revenue Service to administer. Democrats said voters would not appreciate being promised a tax cut and then having it taken away if the debt reduction targets are not met.
And they said it would be difficult for the I.R.S. to prepare tax-return forms and make technical changes to income tax regulations if the rates were uncertain from year to year.
In addition to the reduction in income tax rates, the House bill includes a reduction in the top capital gains tax rate to 15 percent from 20 percent.
The bill, written by Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, would also repeal the inheritance tax on large estates, create deductions for health insurance costs and reduce the so-called marriage penalty, which forces many two-income couples to pay more in taxes than if they were single.
The measure approved by the Senate Finance Committee on Wednesday is somewhat more favorable to middle-income taxpayers than the House bill.
It would reduce the bottom income tax bracket of 15 percent to 14 percent, extend the bracket to those with higher incomes and all but eliminate the marriage penalty.
The committee defeated an alternative proposal introduced by Democrats that would have cut taxes by $290 billion over 10 years, the highest level that Mr. Clinton has said he would accept.
"I think we ought to be doing as much as we can to return this overpayment, this surplus, to the people," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican majority leader.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about the Congressional debate over taxes misstated the size of the tax cut approved by the Senate Finance Committee. It was $792 billion over 10 years, not $778 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With bipartisan support, the Senate Finance Committee yesterday approved a $778 billion tax cut package giving more tax relief to the middle class than the House bill. Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, right, met with Senators Don Nickles, the assistant majority leader, and Phil Gramm. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) LEGISLATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VETO (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDICARE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); INCOME TAX (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) TRENT LOTT (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); DEBORAH PRYCE (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



523 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3625 words

HEADLINE: Limits on Power and Zeal Hamper Firearms Agency

SERIES: GOING AFTER GUNS -- First of two articles.

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
It was another routine transaction in the deadly business of how criminals get their guns.
In March 1998, a stranger paid 21-year-old Tia Branch $200, drove her to the Baltimore Gunsmith store near her housing project and showed her a $700 semiautomatic pistol he wanted. Outside the store, he gave her the money for the gun, and she went back in and bought it. As a convicted felon, he was barred by Federal law from buying a gun. 
 The sales clerk did not question the young woman, although law-enforcement officials say the clerk should have known from the couple's behavior that it was an illegal straw purchase. Baltimore Gunsmith has made so many similar sales, they say, that the store is responsible for selling 20 percent of the guns used in crimes that the Baltimore police have traced in the last nine years.
Police officers, Federal agents and prosecutors have tried numerous times, using existing gun laws, to shut the place down since 1991. Despite these efforts, it still remains open.
As Congress debates gun control, the gun industry and its supporters often say that the United States has enough gun laws already, that what is lacking is enforcement. But a review of cases like the Baltimore Gunsmith and of the agency charged with enforcing Federal gun laws, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, reveals a much more complicated situation.
The bureau, an arm of the Treasury Department, was created with limited power, has existed under constant threat of attack by the National Rifle Association, has been kept short-staffed and has to enforce laws often written to make prosecutions difficult.
An examination of the bureau also shows a major distinction in its approach to the job. Historically, it has arrested a sizable number of criminals who use guns in robberies or drug sales, particularly career criminals with three or more convictions. These are considered safe cases that do not arouse N.R.A. opposition.
Until recently, the bureau has been less aggressive in what is now being recognized as a critical part of gun control: going after illegal gun traffickers and the small number of corrupt dealers, among the 104,855 federally licensed dealers, who supply guns to criminals and juveniles.
While half of all crime guns traced by the A.T.F. in the past two years were linked to just 389 dealers, only 42 dealers were recommended for prosecution last year, and only 19 had their licenses revoked.
"There is not a whole lot of vigor in gun enforcement," said Julius Wachtel, who retired last year after 23 years as a firearms agent. When it comes to investigating dealers, traffickers or gun shows, he said, the agents have a saying: "No cases, no waves. Little cases, little waves. Big cases, big waves. All those years of being hammered by Congress have had a chilling effect."
In an interview, John W. McGaw, the director of the A.T.F., acknowledged: "I virtually never use the term 'gun control' because that would make us anti-gun. Everything we touch is unpopular and controversial, so we have to be very careful to do what Congress has decided we should and be neutral regulators, not take sides in the gun debate."
Under Mr. McGaw, a former director of the Secret Service who became director of the A.T.F. in 1993 after the raid on the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Tex., the number of gun trafficking cases recommended for prosecution rose to 788 in 1998, up from 533 in 1994.
In keeping with what Mr. McGaw sees as his Congressional mandate, he has formulated a policy of treating gun dealers as "partners," members of the legitimate firearms industry whom agents often rely on for tips on straw purchases or gun traffickers.
The bureau's small size -- its 1,631 agents are only 9 more than in 1973 -- means it sometimes must forgo investigations, prosecutors say. And the agents must spend much of their time investigating bombings and arsons, as well as enforcing the laws on alcohol and collecting tobacco taxes.
By comparison, the number of agents in the Drug Enforcement Administration has grown to 4,261 today, from 1,370 in 1973.
"This shows that Congress has never decided it is serious about going after gun trafficking the way it is about the war on drugs," said David Yassky, an assistant professor at Brooklyn Law School and a Democratic counsel to the House Judiciary Committee.
"With drugs, we've realized we've got to go all the way up the chain," Mr. Yassky said. "If all you do is arrest the crack addict, we won't get anywhere. But with guns, we only arrest the end user, the shooter."
Federal gun laws underscore the difference in priority between drugs, which are illegal to sell, possess and use, and guns, which start out as legal products, and illustrate the difficulty the bureau faces in pursuing gun control.
A dealer who sells 1,000 or more guns to criminals might get only six months in jail, but for drug dealers there are stiff mandatory minimum prison sentences of up to 25 years, even for selling small quantities.
Undercover purchases are a common tactic of drug agents, but under appellate courts' rulings, firearms agents may not pose as felons buying guns. Agents must use an actual convicted felon in undercover operations, which makes prosecution more difficult because juries are reluctant to believe convicted felons.
In addition, the Firearms Owners Protection Act of 1986, a law championed by the N.R.A. and sponsored by Senator James A. McClure, an Idaho Republican who has retired, and by Representative Harold L. Volkmer, a Missouri Democrat who lost his seat in 1996, raised barriers to prosecutions.
Mr. Volkmer, now living in Hannibal, Mo., said the law was still necessary to rein in what he sees as an overzealous Government agency. In the minds of firearms agents, Mr. Volkmer said: "It's almost like, if you are a gun owner or dealer, you're weird or not legitimate. They believe the only way to resolve violence is to take away our guns."
Mr. McClure did not return phone calls to his office or home seeking comment.
 
The Origins
From Moonshine To Gun Control
The law limited A.T.F. agents to only one inspection of a dealer a year, reduced record-keeping violations by a dealer from a felony to a misdemeanor -- a disincentive for Federal prosecutors in cases where a dealer has forged or destroyed his records to hide evidence -- and required prosecutors to prove that dealers who sold guns to criminals or straw purchasers did so "knowingly and willfully," a nearly insurmountable hurdle, lawyers say.
It also prohibited the A.T.F. from establishing any national system of gun registration, which makes tracing the origin of guns used in crimes much more difficult.
"The gun laws weren't very strong to start with," said William J. Vizzard, a retired firearms agent who is now a professor of criminal justice at California State University in Sacramento. "But after McClure-Volkmer they were Swiss cheese."
The firearms bureau's difficulties lie partly in its origins. It was created with little planning when Congress, after the assassinations of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in April 1968 and of Senator Robert F. Kennedy two months later, hastily passed the Gun Control Act of 1968.
That law required that everybody dealing in firearms be licensed by the Federal Government, and it prohibited convicted felons, illegal immigrants and drug addicts from buying guns. The law gave the Government no power to regulate the manufacture, design or marketing of guns. Indeed, Representative John D. Dingell, a Michigan Democrat who was a member of the N.R.A. board of directors, had the gun industry exempted from the new Consumer Product Safety Commission.
The agency charged with supervising the 1968 law was the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division of the Treasury Department. Until 1968, its agents were mainly revenuers, famous in film lore for tracking down whisky stills, largely in the Southeast. Most of the agents themselves were Southerners who grew up with guns and were likely to be members of the N.R.A.; they had little interest in the new notion of gun control.
Mr. Wachtel, who joined the agency in Phoenix in 1972, the same year it was renamed the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, recalled that his first training officer "basically knew nothing about firearms trafficking."
But soon Mr. Wachtel and other new agents began making some alarming discoveries.
"We walked into gun shows and found you could buy a machine gun, which was illegal, without even having to give your name," Mr. Wachtel said. They also stumbled on dealers "who were putting guns on the streets without paper," he said, selling to criminals without keeping the required records. And Mr. Wachtel said they found that traffickers would buy guns in states with lax gun control laws, like Georgia or South Carolina, and then drive them north for resale to criminals in Washington or New York.
In short, by the late 1970's the new agents had an understanding of how guns moved quickly from manufacturers, wholesalers and dealers to criminals. But as they began to make criminal cases, gun industry supporters in Congress held angry hearings into alleged abuses of law-abiding gun owners and dealers.
In 1981, President Ronald Reagan, at the urging of the N.R.A., announced the elimination of the A.T.F., and many agents were given layoff notices, until his Administration later reconsidered the action.
And in one of the most famous attacks on the A.T.F., Congressman Dingell, who was influential in the defeat of a gun-control bill in the House on June 18, called firearms agents "a jackbooted group of fascists who are perhaps as large a danger to American society as I could pick today."
In 1979, to protect itself against criticism of this kind, the A.T.F. ordered that any agent who wanted to investigate a gun dealer had to get permission from headquarters in Washington. This policy lasted until the Clinton Administration. Mr. Vizzard remembered "the chilling effect" when he received a reprimand because he was investigating three corrupt dealers concurrently.
David Kennedy, a senior researcher at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and director of the Boston Gun Project, the most successful citywide program to stop gun trafficking, said of the firearms agents: "These people are heroes, and the only fair thing to say is that they have been systematically kept away from doing a vitally important job."
The A.T.F. operates out of an unremarkable, granite-faced eight-story building in Washington. By mandate of Congress, 25 percent of the bureau's time must be spent on explosives, a priority that gained new urgency after the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City in 1995. The bombing was directed against the A.T.F. office there in retaliation for the bureau's role in the Branch Davidian raid near Waco.
After the Waco incident, Mr. McGaw, who was popular with Republicans, was appointed director of the A.T.F. He has emphasized training and professionalism as a way to re-create an agency that had its start in moonshine and to give it more of a buttoned-down image like that of the Secret Service or the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Mr. McGaw's most important initiative has been to quadruple the number of crime guns the A.T.F. traces back to manufacturers and dealers, which has led to a much clearer understanding of the role of illegal dealers and traffickers in helping criminals get their guns. But to make the program more palatable to the N.R.A., which always worries about the Government's keeping information on guns, it has officially been described as an effort to stop the flow of guns to juveniles.
Mr. McGaw is not one to lead the call for new gun laws, and he makes no apologies for treating gun dealers as partners. Gun trafficking is a victimless crime, he says, where no one calls up to report an illegal sale, so the bureau depends on having good relations with dealers who can tip it off about suspicious activity.
Mr. McGaw said he was surprised when he took over the A.T.F. and found that all its functions "are negatives, are controversial." Even when it investigates white supremacist groups or the bombing of an abortion clinic, the bureau has drawn criticism.
So to avoid attacks on the bureau's budget, he tries to steer a course down the middle. "For our agents, some of the laws may be frustrations," he said, but he added that these impediments "tell us what Congress wants us to do."
 
The Problem
Quirks in the Law Help the Dealer
Law-enforcement officials first became interested in Baltimore Gunsmith in 1991 when Detective Ed Bochniak of the Baltimore Police Department went to the home of a drug dealer, Anthony Jones, 18, to investigate the fatal shooting of a 13-year-old girl in his bedroom.
In the Jones home, the police found receipts showing that Mr. Jones's cousin, Sheila Kelly, had bought eight guns for $5,274 from Baltimore Gunsmith, and Ms. Kelly later confessed that Mr. Jones had paid her to buy them. The guns included a .40-caliber Glock semiautomatic pistol, two 9-millimeter Glock semiautomatic pistols, a 9-millimeter Beretta semiautomatic pistol with a laser sight and a Cobray Streetsweeper shotgun. One of the pistols killed the 13-year-old; another had been used to shoot two drug dealers.
Detective Bochniak turned over the evidence to the A.T.F. office in Baltimore. But when firearms agents recommended prosecution to the United States Attorney's office in Baltimore, they were turned down.
A spokesman for the United States Attorney said he could not discuss the case because no prosecution had been made.
But agents involved in the investigation said they were told the prosecutor feared that the case would be nearly impossible to prove, given the quirks in the gun laws. Under the McClure-Volkmer standard, the agents would have to show that the owner, Anthony A. DiMartino, had sold the eight guns to Ms. Kelly knowing that she was a straw purchaser. In other words, they would have to prove his state of mind.
That would take valuable extra time, the agents were told, and even if by chance Mr. DiMartino was found guilty, the prison sentence would be only a few months, not the kind of high-profile case that ambitious Federal prosecutors usually seek.
With no trial, Baltimore Gunsmith kept selling hundreds of guns that turned up in crimes in the city, the police found, and the A.T.F.'s agents kept trying to catch Mr. DiMartino. In 1996 they mounted an undercover operation. They could not take the easy path, posing as felons, since Federal courts had ruled that the buyer must be an actual felon.
Instead, an agent posing as a waitress and equipped with a hidden tape recorder bought a .22-caliber Beretta pistol at the store, saying she was buying it for a convicted murderer whom Mr. DiMartino knew. Again, the United States Attorney's office declined to prosecute. Even if Mr. DiMartino was convicted, which would be difficult, he might simply transfer his firearms license to his son, who worked in the store, agents say the prosecutor's office told them.
Mr. DiMartino's license was up for renewal at the time. But Mike Campbell, a spokesman for the A.T.F. in Baltimore, said Federal law required the bureau to hold off on any revocation and automatically renew a license during a criminal investigation to insure citizens' rights.
Last March the agency scheduled a revocation hearing, but it was postponed when a firearms agent who had been part of the investigation could not attend because he had been transferred to another city. No new date has been set.
The lawyer for Baltimore Gunsmith, Richard Karceski, said his client had done nothing wrong.
 
The Blame
Finding Fault With Congress
James Baker, the chief lobbyist for the N.R.A., said that dealers who violate the law "ought to be prosecuted," but that the McClure-Volkmer standards "were put in to protect law-abiding people from well-documented abuses by A.T.F."
"We don't think forcing A.T.F. and the Justice Department to prove a case should prevent effective law enforcement," he said.
But Detective Bochniak, who is now assigned to a special new gun squad, said, "From the point of view of local law enforcement, all this is very frustrating. Whose fault is it? Should people sue the gun dealer, or the A.T.F. that failed to shut the store down?"
The fault, he said, is "in the law, and all the judges and politicians that don't take guns seriously."
Sometimes the oddities of the gun laws can mar even a successful prosecution.
B&E Guns, in Cypress, Calif., is the second largest dealer in the state. Firearms agents had long been suspicious about B&E Guns, and in 1990 they got the owner's license revoked for forging records of his purchases and sales. But that did not deter the owner, Robert Komor. He simply transferred the license to his wife, Esperanza Juan-Komor, said Tom Makar, the agent who handled the investigation.
In the mid-1990's, more than 200 guns that the A.T.F. had traced to B&E Guns began showing up in murders, robberies and shootings in Southern California. Other guns traced to B&E Guns were being smuggled into Japan and Australia.
The bureau raided B&E Guns, and after its agents pored through the shop's files they found that it had illegally sold about 9,000 guns in less than two years, Mr. Makar said. It was one of the biggest such sales in the United States. The store had improperly accounted for the sale of 3,000 of the guns by listing them as having been sold to other dealers who were unaware of the transactions. There were no records at all for the remaining 6,000 guns, Mr. Makar said, even though manufacturers and wholesalers reported that they had sold the guns to B&E.
It was lucrative, agents said, because a gun with no paper trail could be sold to criminals for double the normal markup.
Despite the seriousness of the case, the United States Attorney's office in Los Angeles last year allowed the Komors' son, Zak Komor, who was the store's manager, to plead guilty to only five counts of causing a false statement to be made in B&E's record books involving just 24 guns. He was sentenced to a year in prison. No one else was prosecuted, and the store is still open.
Michael Brush, Mr. Komor's lawyer, said the A.T.F.'s claim that 9,000 guns were involved was exaggerated. The Komors' mistake, he said, was just "sloppiness in record keeping, not an attempt to put guns in the hands of criminals."
The United States Attorney's office declined to answer questions about the deal, saying the court records were under seal. But several agents familiar with the case said they believed that prosecutors had simply run up against the McClure-Volkmer law, which reduced fraudulent record-keeping by a dealer to a misdemeanor.
Mr. Vizzard, the former A.T.F. agent in Sacramento, says the problems with gun control lie in Congress. He recalled that at Senate Judiciary Committee hearings in 1995 into the deadly standoff between Government agents and white separatists at Ruby Ridge, Idaho, a number of Senators, Democrats and Republicans alike, had grilled Herb Byerly, a firearms agent, on his decision to arrest Randy Weaver, a separatist, after Mr. Weaver had sold an informer two sawed-off shotguns and offered to sell him five more.
If Mr. Weaver had sold only two sawed-off shotguns, said Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, "It is a little hard to understand how you can say to this subcommittee that this man has a profile as a gun trafficker."
Watching the hearings on television, Mr. Vizzard said he wondered if Congress took gun crimes seriously. For one thing, selling or even possessing an unregistered sawed-off shotgun is a felony. But what would the Senators have said, he wondered, if it had been a young boy selling just two vials of crack cocaine? That is punishable by years in prison.
And what would the Senators say now, after the shootings at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo., last April? Two of the four guns the teen-age killers used -- and the ones that claimed the most victims -- were sawed-off shotguns. Would the Senators still say, Mr. Vizzard wondered, "only two sawed-off shotguns?"
 
Going After Guns
TODAY -- The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, is short-staffed and must enforce laws often written to make prosecutions difficult.
 
TOMORROW -- Chicago and more than 20 other cities have begun a broad legal assault on the gun industry similar to the one started by states five years ago against cigarette makers.
 
ON THE WEB -- For past coverage of this issue and articles in this series, visit The New York Times on the web: www.nytimes.com/national
 
A Closer Look
Main Parts of Gun Owners' Protection Law
The Firearms Owners' Protection Act of 1986 included several provisions that made the policing of gun dealers and owners more difficult, including these:
 
RECORDS
The penalty for falsifying records, the easiest dealer violation for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to prove, was reduced to a misdemeanor from a felony.
 
INSPECTIONS
Unannounced inspections to review a dealer's records were limited to one a year.
 
STANDARD OF PROOF
The standard of proof to convict a dealer of selling guns to straw buyers was raised to "knowingly and willfully." Prosecutors had to prove not only that a dealer knew a sale was illegal, but also that he made it intentionally.
 
LICENSING
The standard for convicting someone of selling guns without a license was raised to require not only they sell them regularly, but also that they earn a major part of their livelihood from those sales.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 22 about efforts by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to combat illegal gun dealing misspelled the surname of the bureau's director. He is John W. Magaw, not McGaw.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The police say the Baltimore Gunsmith has sold guns used in crimes, but it remains open. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Some of the guns confiscated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms are displayed on pegboard walls at its headquarters. (Marty Katz for The New York Times); John W. McGaw, the A.T.F. director. (pg. A19)
 
"A CLOSER LOOK -- Two Agencies on Different Paths"
In the early 1970's, the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms had similar budgets and numbers of agents, but two decades of the war on drugs has largely benefited the D.E.A.
 
Graphs track the number of agents in the D.E.A and the A.T.F, and each agencies budget (adjusted for inflation), since 1973. (Source: Drug Enforcement Agency; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms)(pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TOBACCO AND FIREARMS; NATIONAL RIFLE ASSN; DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION BALTIMORE GUNSMITH (73%); BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (96%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TOBACCO AND FIREARMS; NATIONAL RIFLE ASSN; DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (96%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; GUN CONTROL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION FIREARMS (93%); GUN CONTROL (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); FELONIES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); ARRESTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); CHILD WELFARE (59%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX JOHN W MCGAW (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999



524 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 36; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 4634 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York City museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free.
* denotes a highly recommended show.
 
Museums
 
"THE AMERICAN CENTURY: ART AND CULTURE, 1900-1950," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Aug. 22). This is the first half of a marathon end-of-an-era survey. (Part 2, covering 1950-2000, opens on Sept. 26.) It flows chronologically through four floors of the museum's galleries, resulting in a show of substantial if circumscribed pleasures. Most of the 600 paintings, drawings and sculptures are familiar icons from a canonical art history, one in need of shaking up. But if what is here is short on fresh insights, there are wonderful things to look at. By the time you've worked your way from Gilded Age society portraits on the top floor to Jackson Pollock below, you've had a genuine time-travel experience: exhausting, diverting, sometimes moving, even pride-inspiring. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Thursdays, 1 to 8 P.M. Admission: $12.50; $10.50, students and the elderly (Holland Cotter). 

* "AMERICAN FOLK ART IN THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART," Fifth Avenue at 82d Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Sept. 5). One of the museum's less visible collections, this group of folk art portraits, views, genre scenes, marine paintings, religious works and so on has been assembled for its first overall showing, and high time. The best are the portraits, which include a masterpiece or two by the great Ammi Phillips, along with the work of Joshua Johnston, Erastus Salisbury Field, Rufus Hathaway and other greats. A very appealing section of watercolors and drawings includes mourning pictures, a Victorian convention in which relatives of the dead are shown weeping by tombstones; tributes to heroes like George Washington and General Lafayette, calligraphic endeavors and many lively renditions of family groups and trees. Not to be missed are some wonderful New York views, like William H. Schenck's "Third Avenue Railroad Depot" (1859-1860), a handsome red brick building that served as a trolley turnaround and station between 65th and 66th Streets. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Sundays, 9:30 A.M. to 5:15 P.M.; Fridays and Saturdays, to 9 P.M. Admission: $8; $4, children and the elderly (Grace Glueck).
 
"FAME AFTER PHOTOGRAPHY," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53d Street, (212) 708-9400 (through Oct. 5). Not the usual Modern exhibition, this breezily entertaining summer extravaganza includes hundreds of publicity stills, movie trailers, supermarket glossies and television excerpts that chart a trajectory from the world of Queen Victoria to that of Kato Kaelin. The subject is celebrity as a phenomenon redefined by photography. You'll leave it wondering whether something that has become so commonplace is still meaningful beyond its value as a marketable commodity. Hours: Saturdays through Tuesdays, and Thursdays, 10:30 A.M. to 5:45 P.M.; Fridays, 10:30 A.M. to 8:15 P.M. Admission: $10; $6.50, students and the elderly (Michael Kimmelman).
 
"IMPRESSIONISTS IN WINTER: EFFETS DE NEIGE," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Aug. 29). Think of the Impressionists, and chances are you think green: lawns, hedges and fertile fields of a deciduous nature caught at full leaf. But these artists were year-round workers, and winter landscapes, rendered in the frosty open air or through the glass of a studio window, figured in their repertory. Here are some 60 such paintings. And if ever a show were tailor-made for summer viewing, this one is. Its size is untaxing, and its deep-freeze images of snow-covered fields and ice-caked trees are the visual equivalent of air-conditioning. Of course, much of the work by Monet, Pissarro, Sisley and their colleagues is extremely beautiful in that immediate, you-have-to-be-there Impressionist way. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Thursdays, to 8 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. (to 11 P.M. on the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $9.50; $7.50, students over 10 and the elderly (Cotter).
 
* "POMO INDIAN BASKET WEAVERS, THEIR BASKETS AND THE ART MARKET," National Museum of the American Indian, 1 Bowling Green, lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3712 (through Aug. 15). Baskets made by the Pomo Indians of northern California around the turn of the century were notable for the strength of their design and artistry, and when white settlers new to the territory discovered them a market began to develop. The baskets, in earth colors of black, tan and deep brown with subtle geometric designs, were often covered or accented with tiny colored feathers, clam shell disks (which once served the Pomo as money), abalone pendants and stones. They ranged in size from feast bowls that could feed a tribal gathering to miniatures so tiny they could be mistaken for seeds. This is a knockout presentation of the work of 47 early 20th-century Pomo basket makers. Organized by the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archeology and Anthropology, it vividly tells the story of the weavers (mostly women), their patrons and collectors. Hours: Daily, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Thursdays, to 8 P.M. Free (Glueck).
 
* "PRAYER BOOK FOR A QUEEN: THE HOURS OF JEANNE D'EVREUX" AND "DEVOTIONS AND DIVERSIONS: PRINTS AND BOOKS FROM THE LATE MIDDLE AGES IN NORTHERN EUROPE," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Aug. 29). The 14th-century book called "The Hours of Jeanne d'Evereux" is only three and a half inches high. But in the story of Western culture it looms large as a wellspring of a northern European painting that stretches from van Eyck to Bruegel. Recently the binding was removed to make a facsimile, and all the full-page illuminations are on temporary display. They are exquisite. The Met has organized a survey of medieval books and prints for the occasion, ranging from hand-colored block prints with a bumptious folk-art charm to polished designs from urban workshops. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).
 
* "SURREALISM: TWO PRIVATE EYES," the Nesuhi Ertegun and Daniel Filipacchi Collections, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Sept. 12). The Surrealist collections formed by two friends fill the museum from lobby to ceiling. Although it has more than 700 objects, this powerful show is by no means a comprehensive survey but an intense, close-up experience of Surrealism that might be imparted by two obsessed acquisitors taking you on a personal tour of their treasures. Highlights include clusters of paintings by Dali, Victor Brauner, Magritte, Andre Masson and Yves Tanguy; a splendid group of boxes by Joseph Cornell; a brilliant selection of photographs rife with portraits by Man Ray; dozens of beautifully bound books, and remarkable drawings by Hans Bellmer and Masson. The show has notable omissions and a few surprising inclusions, but by and large the menu is high quality. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. Admission: $12; $7 for students and the elderly (Glueck).
 
Galleries: Uptown
 
"PATTERN," James Graham & Sons, 1014 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 535-5767 (through Aug. 27). This well-selected show presents two dozen artists for whom patterning is a compelling motive. Julia Jacquette neatly paints rows of penny candy and Nina Bovasso produces wacky agglomerations of cartoon motifs inspired by Philip Guston and R. Crumb. Donna Sharrett's lacy quasi-Victorian mandala woven from synthetic hair and Mary Judge's Minimalistic block of gray concrete bricks bearing a radiating pattern of fine charcoal lines each convey a ritualized spirituality (Johnson).
 
* "STAMPED WITH A NATIONAL CHARACTER: 19TH-CENTURY AMERICAN COLOR PLATE BOOKS," Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, (212) 838-6690 (through July 31). Color in books is a commonplace today, but 200 years ago it was a rarity in American volumes and affordable only by upscale readers. With more than 100 examples, this thoroughly absorbing show traces the evolution of the American color plate book from 1800 to the end of the century when machine production ended laborious hand operations. Assembled from the collection of William S. Reese, a New Haven dealer and collector, its objects range from John James Audubon's giant portfolio "The Birds of America" to fashion books and medical texts with gruesome illustrations. Worthy of special note is the earliest color plate book produced in the United States, "The City of Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania, North America, as It Appeared in the Year 1800," a handsome offering that might be called the first American coffee table book (Glueck).
 
Galleries: 57th Street
 
"LINEAR IMPULSE," Michael Rosenfeld, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 247-0082 (through Aug. 13). This crowded presentation of variously linear paintings and sculptures includes famous artists like David Smith, Mark Tobey and Lee Krasner. There are works in outmoded Modernist styles, like the Surrealistic Cubist paintings of Jimmy Ernst, but there are things that still look fresh, including richly layered paintings by Alfonso Ossorio and a dense ball of wire and glass by Claire Falkenstein (Johnson).
 
ODD NERDRUM, "Self-Portraits," Forum, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 355-4545, (through July 30). These self-portraits don't deliver the sort of weird storytelling for which the Norwegian humanist is revered by his fans, but the most startling picture, in which the artist holds up the hem of his golden, pearl-studded robe to expose a swelling, marmoreal paunch and upsweeping erection, is not to be missed (Johnson).
 
JUDITH JOY ROSS, Pace Wildenstein MacGill, 32 East 57th Street, (212) 759-7999 (through Aug. 27). Ms. Ross makes understated, uncommonly sensitive photographic portraits, especially of children. Among her lovely gold-toned 8-by-10-inch works are pictures of a blond, messy-haired urchin slouched at his elementary school desk, gazing at the camera with a look of heartbreaking ennui, and of a 10- or 11-year-old girl standing by a hazy lake with a Band-Aid on her knee and an ethereal aura (Johnson).
 
Galleries: Chelsea
 
"THE BUREAU OF INVERSE TECHNOLOGY," Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, (212) 727-3323 (through July 31). The Bureau of Inverse Technology is a group of Neo-Dadaists who think up perverse applications for new technology. Though visually uninteresting, their most intriguing projects operate like chillingly plausible ideas in a dark science-fiction novel. "Suicide Box" proposes to correlate a real-time tracked suicide rate (people leaping from Golden Gate Bridge) with the Dow Jones Industrial Average to generate "a new economic indicator" called the "Despondency Index" (Johnson).
 
"CAUGHT," 303 Gallery, 525 West 22d Street, (212) 255-1121 (through July 30). The diverse works in this five-artist show are linked by oblique humor and formal lucidity. Jason Meadows scrambles an aluminum stepladder; Evan Holloway constructs a plywood stealth bomber; Shannon Okasana copies a dozen portraits of the singer Nana Mouskouri from different album covers; Samara Caughey makes biomorphically perforated wooden platforms, and Dexter Dalwood paints a circular view of a futuristic command console (Johnson).
 
"THE CONVERSATION," Jack Shainman, 513 West 20th Street, (212) 645-1701 (through July 31). No two works in this 11-artist show look alike, yet somehow they all hang congenially together. The exhibition includes an optically mesmerizing spinning machine by David Ireland; a colossal watercolor head by Till Freiwald; a small, dense swatch of alphabetically embroidered fabric by Alighiero Boetti, and a goofy Minimalist foot painting by Carl Ostendarp. A 14th-century granite Indian deity presides (Johnson).
 
"EUROPE ON A SHOESTRING," Weber, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 691-5711 (through July 31). This roundup of European avant-gardists ranges from the amusing to the oblique. Highlights include a Roman Olpalka number painting; Alghiero E. Boetti's enormous steel-framed window with the delightful title, "Nothing to See, Nothing to Hide," and Hans Haacke's "Photo Opportunity," which pairs a portrait of George and Barbara Bush at a storm disaster site with a portrait of a poor Alabama farm family by Walker Evans (Johnson).
 
WADE GUYTON, Andrew Kreps, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 741-8849 (through July 30). Mr. Guyton has removed everything from the gallery's office and storage space and installed a puzzling, roughly made abstract sculpture of slotted Plexiglas units, two oblique architectural photographs and a piece of dark plywood. This stark and harsh environment contrasts sharply with the crowded, anarchic installation of Kreps's complete inventory in the main exhibition space (Johnson).
 
ERIK HANSON, Derek Eller, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 206-6411 (through July 30). Mr. Hanson draws on his background as a Minneapolis punk rock D.J. to make pencil doodles in which elements are systematically labeled with song titles by famous rock groups. For a series of Donald Judd-style "caves," the artist installed colored plaster stalagmites and stalactites between plywood boards. This work is pretty slight but charming nevertheless (Johnson).
 
"KILL ALL LIES," Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9100 (through July 30). This motley group show is held together by language, subversive intent and different kinds of static. Jean-Michel Basquiat's early graffiti wall writings are recorded in Henry Flynt's handsome color photographs; the 1998 United States bombing of Iraq is the subject of a sound piece by Dara Birnbaum, and Steve DiBennedetto's bright, fragmented abstract paintings are little exploding worlds unto themselves (Smith).
 
"LOST AND FOUND," Audiello Fine Art, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 675-9082 (Through July 30). This modest summer show of gallery regulars and guests has the slightly forlorn look suggested by its title. Most of the work feels physically vulnerable and secretive, as if it were in the process of coming or going, with melting snowmen, hand-painted dolls in corners and a suitcase with family photos that may be something new to be discovered or something old best left behind (Cotter).
 
RITA McBRIDE AND SYLVIA PLIMACK MANGOLD, Alexander and Bonin, 132 10th Avenue, at 18th Street, (212) 367-7474 (through July 30). Ms. McBride's installation focuses obliquely on the concept of the art exhibition. Three sets of curvy wooden bleachers invite viewers to sit and look at a picture on the wall, which periodically changes. (First up was a Cindy Sherman self-portrait as a secretary from 1978.) Ms. Mangold's Precisionist painting of a ruler on a wooden floor reflected in a wood-framed mirror and a more recent Cezannesque portrait of a tree echo the woodiness of the bleachers (Johnson).
 
MICHAEL PAHA AND SKEET MCAULEY, Feigen Contemporary, 535 West 20th Street, (212) 929-0500 (through July 30). A nice double feature here, the pairing of two artists whose work is based on human tinkering with nature. Bringing landscape indoors with gratifying results, Michael Paha has created a miniature garden of many levels, an ingenious orchestration of plants, terrariums, carved wooden troughs, sand, rocks, guppies and even a kitchen sink, nourished by a recycling river that runs through a loop of pipes connected to a pump. Skeet McAuley shows big color photographs of golf courses along with close-ups of bonsai trees and desert stones. The golf courses, in the American Southwest and Hawaii, lie in manicured splendor against rougher natural backgrounds of mountains and scrub vegetation. His very formal views of bonsais and groomed rocks emphasize the artificiality of these objects, whose cultivation arose from a Taoist bent for taming nature (Glueck).
 
"THE SEA, THE SEA," Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, (212) 463-7372 (through July 30). Among the attractions in this smart, understated selection of works related to oceanic themes are Kay Rosen's bouncy painting of the words "nausea" and "seasick"; deft painterly miniatures by James Sheehan and Pamela Golden; a lush seascape made of cut paper by David Thorpe, and dark, dense, postcard-size pictures of watery surfaces by Michael Blodget (Johnson).
 
"STARS AND STRIPES," Ricco/Maresca, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 627-4819 (through Aug. 14). In this absorbing exhibition of photographs and folk art America's star-spangled banner exerts iconic resonance. In Philip Jones Griffith's photograph "Vietnam," the flag flies in the distance while a soldier washes up in a crater; Jayne Hinds Bidaut's shadowy, contemporary tintypes depict full-bodied nude women wrapped in the flag and a funky, flag-waving goddess of liberty weather vane made in 1865 points the way (Johnson).
 
KRZYSZTOF ZAREBSKI, "Water Nymphs," Pardo Sheehan Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, near 24th Street, (212) 242-8523 (through July 31). A Polish-born assemblagist and performance artist, Mr. Zarebski has a grab-bag of ideas, many of them far from fabulous. He is preoccupied with leeches, the fat worms once used for bloodletting. Live ones appear on his back in a number of photographs; painted ones in the glass jars that form part of works here and there. Other exhibits range from a battery-operated toy water nymph that swims aimlessly up and down in a plastic trough to the muzzle of his dog, acquired after the animal bit a dog owned by a neighbor (together with the neighbor's complaint, taped from an answering machine). The show recalls somewhat the antics of the 1960's Fluxus group, but they were better editors of their own work (Glueck).
 
Galleries: SoHo
 
PEDRO BARBEITO, Basilico, 26 Wooster Street, (212) 966-1831 (through July 30). A young Spanish-born painter who lives in Brooklyn presents four absorbing paintings that look like complicated computer-generated diagrams. Mr. Barbeito applies layers of thick paint, following underlying grid patterns. At certain points, small-scale gridded structures made of layered paint project several inches from the surface. There is a nice tension between disembodied rationalism and quirky materialism (Johnson).
 
"FOREVER IS A HELL OF A LONG TIME," Bronwyn Keenan, 3 Crosby Street, (212) 431-5083 (through July 30). This engrossing works-on-paper exhibition shows how anarchically entertaining pluralism can be. It includes neatly lettered self-help titles by Brian Block; small deft Surrealistic doodles about animals by Adam Raymont; Jonathan Herder's collages in which Abe Lincoln fills in for Frank Sinatra; liquor stores in Detroit listed by Valaire Van Slyck, and a wonderful dragon head painted with the intensity of an Old World miniaturist by Robert Medvedz (Johnson).
 
CHIP HOOPER, "California Dreamin,' " Edward Carter Gallery, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-1933 (through Sept. 11). The Big Sur coast of northern California and the Southwest desert are explored in these contemplative black-and-white photographs, with a bow to the work of Ansel Adams. Viewing the daily moods and changes of the Big Sur territory, Mr. Hooper captures events ranging from the flaming eruption of dawn over the sea to the milky dusk that settles on Soberanes Beach. In his studies of ancient cliff dwellings in the desert, you can almost sense the spirits of the long-gone occupants. No affectations mar this work; the photography is robust, if on the traditional side (Glueck).
 
"MIXUP," Lehmann Maupin, 39 Greene Street, (212) 965-0753 (through July 30). This interesting, albeit disconnected, show of artworks by seven designers and one fine artist includes a gel-filled talking punching bag by Natasha Makowski and Alexandros Psychoulis; a hypnotically percussive sound installation by Tobias Frere-Jones, and clever mock commodities by Daniel Jasper, who has invented an agency called Daddy to market to young Neo-Marxist revolutionaries things like oven-fired bricks and an "Auto Critique Pistola," a beautiful silver pistol that fires backward (Johnson).
 
ANTOINE PEVSNER, Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441 (through July 31). This remarkable exhibition presents 120 drawings done from 1912 to 1956 by one of the original Russian Constructivists. Made in graphite in an elasticized Cubist style, they realize Pevsner's fantasy of Machine Age dynamism more persuasively than do his sculptures, which today look clunky and dated. Artists who continue to explore the possibilities of abstraction might find this collection a rich source of ideas (Johnson).
 
JOAQUIN TORRES-GARCIA, Cecilia de Torres, 140 Greene Street, (212) 431-5869 (through July 31). This show of small paintings and drawings on paper commemorates the 50th anniversary of the Uruguayan-born modernist's death. Torres-Garcia's gridded, pictographic works, by which he articulated a comprehensive cosmic philosophy with an unassuming comic touch, are especially engaging (Johnson).
 
Other Galleries
 
"THE CATHEDRAL PROJECT: LIZ DESCHENES, KEVIN LARMON, DONALD MOFFETT," Cathedral of Saint John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street (through Aug. 29). Constantly being worked on, ceaselessly eroding with time, the cathedral is a Gothic ruin under construction and worth a visit any time. Its spirit of uphill optimism finds a counterpart in this uneven three-artist show that commemorates both the 30th anniversary of the Gay Liberation movement and the realities of AIDS. Ms. Deschenes's photos of a hots springs in Japan have a Heaven and Hell look: billowing steam could be clouds or smoke. Donald Moffett's shots of the sky over New York are mute, abstract versions of a wild blue yonder. Kevin Larmon's paintings, done on wood panels that belonged to a fellow artist, Tom Brazelton, who died of AIDS last year, are beauties (Cotter).
 
"HANG TIME," White Columns, 320 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 924-4212 (through Aug. 1). This amusing show of works relating to sports and leisure includes George Raggett's "Weiner Island," a kidney-shape wooden deck equipped with a grill; Eric Porter's Minimalistic beer cooler; Sylvan Lionni's pristine simulation of a Ping Pong table; Cristian Alexa's photographic documentation of a day in a hammock; ridiculous competitions staged and videotaped by a team called Type A; baseball numerology by Janet Cohen; soaring footballs photographed by Pamela Lins, and videos about tennis and roller coasters by Andrea Ray and Neil Goldberg, respectively (Johnson).
 
"HOLY ART OF IMPERIAL RUSSIA," American Bible Society, 1865 Broadway, at 66th Street, (212) 408-1200 (through Oct. 2). The icons in this show are a long way from the great Russian icons produced from medieval times through the 17th century, most of which are firmly ensconced in Russian churches and museums. The objects here, collected by a Florida-based art restorer, Gary Hollingsworth, are from the 18th to the 20th centuries, when icon painting had by and large declined into a stale fustian enterprise of copying and embellishment. But like Latin American retablos, these were made mostly for private devotion or humble parish churches, and many have a folk quality that energizes them. Some are clumsily painted, some are slick with sweetened colors, but others carry their religious imagery in artistically appealing ways. Collectively, they give a colorful hand-me-down account of the many styles, personages and events of the great icon heritage (Glueck).
 
Last Chance
 
"CLARA GUTSCHE: THE CONVENT SERIES," Americas Society, 680 Park Avenue, at 68th Street, (212) 249-8950 (through Sunday). At once matter-of-fact and quietly radiant, these 54 photographs taken in 20 Canadian convents include pristine interiors and pictures of nuns, shown in prayer, lined up outside their rooms, reading in the library, playing cards in the community room. They document a life of devotion, selflessness, unwavering daily routines and restrained joy, while also insinuating themselves into the history of portraiture, religious art and contemporary set-up photography (Roberta Smith).
 
"FOR MYLES," Five Myles, 558 St. Johns Place, Brooklyn, (718) 783-4438 (through tomorrow). A new exhibition space opens in Brooklyn with a six-artist show selected by Marian Griffiths, the former Sculpture Center director. Included are a snaky, 27-foot cast-iron spinal column by Jack Pospisil; Michael Lee Poy's globular, cosmically split "Crystal City"; poetic boxed works about hair by Cathleen Lewis; a meditative grid of padded paper and pins by Veronica Ryan; Terry Boddie's mixed-media essays on the martial art Capoelra, and ceremonial tiled stools by Maria Elena Gonzalez (Johnson).
 
* LIZA LOU, "American Glamorama," Grand Central Terminal, (212) 878-7178 (through Monday). The extreme beader Liza Lou followed up her unforgettable "Kitchen" (1995) with the spectacular "Backyard" (1997), on view along with other works in the Main Waiting Room. A life-size tableau of twinkling grass and goofy flowers surrounding a loaded picnic table, a ruby barbecue grill, a glittering lawn mower and more, all realized in zillions of glass beads, "Backyard" is not only a marvel of crafty industry but also a funky, transcendental transfiguration of an iconic American scene (Johnson).
 
* "THE MEDIEVAL HOUSEBOOK: A VIEW OF 15TH-CENTURY LIFE," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Sunday). Mystery still surrounds the vivacious 15th-century German manuscript known as the Medieval Housebook -- who the artists were, for example. Part idyll, part real-life manual for the landed gentry, the housebook touches on such miscellaneous matters as astronomy, astrology, courtly love, chivalry, mining, metallurgy, jousting, warfare, recipes, medications, castle defense, animal husbandry and the trapping of men by female predators. In its exquisitely detailed drawings, a mischievous mix of the elegant and the bawdy, men and women conduct lofty amours and earthy functions, the raffish mingle with the raffine, and sybarites are far more evident than saints. A secular sanctuary in a religious era, the manuscript captures, for an enchanted moment, the spirit of a world that's bygone yet very much a prologue to our own. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Sundays, 1 to 6 P.M. Admission: $7; $5, students and the elderly (Glueck).
 
"WHEN TIME BEGAN TO RANT AND RAVE: FIGURATIVE PAINTING FROM 20TH-CENTURY IRELAND," Grey Art Gallery and Study Center, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780 (through tomorrow). This begins with works influenced by Impressionism and Post-Impressionism and ends with routine versions of 80's Neo-Expressionism. Rife with derivative, overearnest work, it is most valuable as a reflection of Ireland's painful history and its effect on its art. It makes palpable the tensions between artists who wanted to keep abreast of international (mostly French) developments in art and those who disdained modernism and celebrated Irish rural life or the struggle for independence. Its high points are few, but include the work of Jack B. Yeats, whose thickly painted Expressionist works succeed in fusing distinctly Irish predicaments and states of mind with an original, contemporary style (Smith).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Fort Edward," in a series by William G. Wall, in "Stamped With National Character," which is on display at the Grolier Club uptown. (William Reese Company); "American Star" by Frederick Kemmelmeyer at the Met. (Metropolitan Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FOLK ART GALLERY (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); PAINTING (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); HISTORY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



525 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 40; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES;
FOR CHILDREN

 BODY:

Theater
 
"GOLLY GEE WHIZ!," a musical set in 1939 in a town called Happyville, where the teen-agers decide to boost the economy by putting on a show, could have been pure saccharin. Instead, the show is a funny spoof, thanks to the authors, Eric Rockwell and Joanne Bogart, the director and choreographer, Cynthia Thole, and the spirited performances by Tada's 8- to 17-year-old thespians. Tada, 120 West 28th Street, Chelsea. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays at noon and 2 P.M.; Saturdays and Aug. 1 at 1 and 3 P.M.; through Aug. 1. Tickets: $12; $6 for ages 15 and under. Reservations advised: (212) 627-1732.
 
Events 

AT&T LATINO ARTS FESTIVAL, celebrating the diversity of Latino art and culture, runs through Aug. 8 at the Queens Theater in the Park, Flushing Meadows Corona Park, off Exit 9E of the Grand Central Parkway, near Shea Stadium, Queens. Shows this weekend that may interest youngsters include Teatro Circulo's "Los Titingos de Juan Bobo," short stories intermingled with music, songs and traditional Puerto Rican folk tales (tomorrow at 3 P.M.) and a performance by the Spanish dance troupe Noche Flamenca (Sunday at 3 P.M.). Tickets: Teatro Circulo, $15; $10 for children. Tickets: Noche Flamenca, $20 and $25. There is also a free performance Sunday at 1 P.M. of "Smiles and Wisdom," three short bilingual fables from Latin America featuring animals, plants and animated objects. Information: (718) 760-0064, English; (718) 760-0686, Spanish.
 
CARNAVAL EN EL YUNQUE. The tropical forest plants of Wave Hill, West 249th Street and Independence Avenue, Riverdale, the Bronx, will inspire youngsters to create colorful masks and costumes, tomorrow and Sunday from 1 to 4 P.M. in the Kerlin Learning Center. Afterward the dancer Yvette Martinez and the musician Nancy Friedman will lead youngsters in a carnival like the one that takes place in July in Loiza, Puerto Rico, celebrating the rain forest, or Yunque. Free with garden admission: $4; students and the elderly, $2; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free until noon. Information: (718) 549-3200.
 
THE CLYDE BEATTY-COLE BROTHERS CIRCUS comes to Brooklyn. The three-ring circus presents a two-hour show of traditional aerial, acrobatic and animal acts. It pitches its tent in Brooklyn's Marine Park, Avenue U west of Flatbush, tonight at 5 and 8 and tomorrow and Sunday at 1:30, 5 and 8 P.M. Tickets: reserved seating, $14; for children 12 and under and the elderly, $9; general admission is $2 less. The circus then moves its red-and-gold big top to Staten Island, Midland Beach Park, at Father Capodanno Boulevard, Monday through Thursday, with performances at 5 and 8 P.M. Information: (718) 441-0080.
 
FAMILY ARTS FESTIVAL at the Theater of Riverside Church, 91 Claremont Avenue, at 120th Street, will take place weekends through Aug. 1. This weekend's performances include the Godino Opera Ballet (tonight at 7 and Sunday at 2 P.M.), the Leela Puppet Theater (tomorrow at 2 and Tuesday at 7 P.M.) and the music troupe O'Samba Brazilian Capoeira tomorrow and Sunday at 7 P.M.). Call for ticket price. Information: (212) 870-6784.
 
GEOLOGY 101, a workshop for children 7 and older with Scott Chessman, a geologist with the New York City Department of Environmental Protection, who will demonstrate how rocks are mined and how to identify minerals, tomorrow from 1 to 2:30 at the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, 110th Street near Fifth Avenue. Free. Ages 7 and older. Information: (212) 860-1370.
 
"STORY CORNER: ADVENTURES AT SEA." Children can imagine themselves sailing through the high seas, while Susan McCullough, an educator at the museum, tells stories of fearless characters and encounters, tomorrow at 4 P.M. in the Robert E. Blum gallery on the first floor of the Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park. The exhibition "Winslow Homer: Illustrating America," with its illustrations of sharks and sea monsters, will supply just the right atmosphere. Free with museum admission: $4; students, $2; the elderly, $1.50. Information: (718) 638-5000, extension 327.
 
THUNDERBIRD AMERICAN INDIAN MIDSUMMER POWWOW, the 19th annual inter-tribal Native American dance competition, with more than 40 Indian nations represented, will take place this weekend at the Queens County Farm Museum, 73-50 Little Neck Parkway, Floral Park, Queens. Tonight, gates open at 6 P.M., with performances from 7 to 10 P.M.; tomorrow, gates open at 10 A.M., with performances from noon to 5 P.M. and 7 to 10 P.M.; on Sunday, gates open at 10 A.M., with performances from noon to 5 P.M. Admission: $7; children 12 and under, $3. Free parking. Information: (718) 347-3276.
 
"WATER WORKS WEEK" at the New York Botanical Garden, 200th Street and Kazimiroff Boulevard, Fordham, the Bronx, through Sunday, will show youngsters how water works to fuel and cool plants. The activities, held at the Everett Children's Adventure Garden, will include making marblelike bookmarks (11 A.M. to 1 P.M. each day), examining a water plant and the tiny fleas it eats (from 11 A.M. to 2 P.M.) and participating in experiments and investigations of water in the Texaco Kids Lab. Tomorrow and Sunday at 2 P.M., the Brothers Grinn will perform improvisational stories about water, taking suggestions from the audience. Children's Garden hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. Children's Garden admission: $3; students and the elderly, $2; ages 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. There are also combination packages. Parking: $4. Information: (718) 817-8700.
 
Exhibitions
 
"BODY ODYSSEY GOES EPIDEMIC!" This weekend, for the price of a shared admission ticket ($10), visitors can visit "Body Odyssey," an interactive exhibition at the Children's Museum of Manhattan about the wonders of the human anatomy, and then wander three blocks over to the American Museum of Natural History to view the exhibition "Epidemic! The World of Infectious Disease." The admission price includes hands-on workshops and activities related to the exhibitions at both locations. Children's Museum of Manhattan, 212 West 83d Street, today through Sunday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., (212) 721-1223. American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West and 79th Street, today and tomorrow, 10 A.M. to 8:45 P.M.; Sunday, 10 A.M. to 5:45 P.M., (212) 769-5200.
 
"BUSYTOWN," a science exhibition based on the work of the author and illustrator Richard Scarry and featuring Lowly Worm, a familiar Scarry character, at the New York Hall of Science, in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, through Sept. 26. The bilingual (Spanish and English), hands-on 5,000-square-foot-exhibition has areas where children can experience the basic scientific principles behind conveyer belts, windmills and pulleys. For ages 2 through 10. Hours: Mondays, 9:30 A.M. to 2 P.M.; Tuesdays through Sundays, until 5 P.M. Admission: $6; $4 for children, 4 to 15 and the elderly; free under 4. Information: (718) 699-0005.
 
"A KID'S GOT TO DO WHAT A KID'S GOT TO DO: CELEBRATING 20 YEARS OF NICKELODEON," an exhibition and screening series through Sept. 12 at the Museum of Television and Radio, 25 West 52d Street, Manhattan. Screenings today through Sunday: at 1 P.M., a focus on comedy with "You Can't Do That on Television," "All That" and "Welcome Freshman"; at 3 P.M., the Nicktoons "Rocko's Modern Life," "Hey Arnold!" and "The Angry Beavers." Hours: Tuesday through Sunday, noon to 6 P.M.; until 8 P.M. on Thursday; until 9 P.M. on Friday (theaters only). Admission: $6; students and the elderly, $4; ages 12 and under, $3; members, free. Information: (212) 621-6800.
 
Zoos
 
"CELEBRATION CONGO" and "BUTTERFLY ZONE." "Celebration Congo" is held Saturdays and Sundays from 11:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. through Aug. 15 in the 6.5-acre Congo Gorilla Forest, which opened recently at the Bronx Zoo, Bronx River Parkway at Fordham Road, Fordham. This attraction, , partly outdoors, partly indoors, has 75 species, including colobus monkeys, okapi (zebra-striped creatures related to giraffes), mandrills, red river hogs and, of course, gorillas. Congo admission: $3. Monarchs, painted ladies, tiger swallowtails and other beautiful species have returned to the "Butterfly Zone"at the zoo through Oct. 4, weather permitting. Visitors can stroll through the zone to admire the ephemeral creatures as they land on a leaf or perhaps a child's finger. Children can view the metamorphosis of as many as 1,000 pupae, or chrysalises, as they transform inside boxes and emerge as butterflies or moths. Admission to the Butterfly Zone is $2. Hours through October: daily, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., until 5:30 P.M. on weekends and holidays. Zoo admission: $7.75; ages 2 to 12, $4; under 2, free, and free for everyone on Wednesdays. Parking, $6. Information: (718) 367-1010.
 
"PRIMATE KEEPER WEEKEND." Tomorrow and Sunday at Prospect Park Zoo, 450 Flatbush Avenue, near Empire Boulevard, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, children can meet with primate keepers at 3 P.M. near the baboon exhibit. Activities from 1 to 4 P.M. include a contest to illustrate the importance of primates' opposable thumbs, a race to see who can get into the uniform of a primate keeper the most rapidly, and a chance to perform a primate-keeper task. Visitors may also take part in such crafts as make-a-monkey. Free with zoo admission: $2.50; the elderly, $1.25; ages 3 to 12, 50 cents; 2 and under, free. Hours: Daily, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Information: (718) 399-7339.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: ZOOS -- In the Bronx Zoo's Butterfly Zone, children can watch pupae become monarchs, painted ladies and other beautiful butterflies. (Wildlife Conservation Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (91%); LATIN AMERICA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (56%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (91%); LATIN AMERICA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES THEATER (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); DANCE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); DANCERS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (74%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); FOLKLORE (73%); WRITERS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); RAIN FORESTS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



526 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobliles 

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Focusing a Green Eye on Car Plants

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI 

 BODY:
HOW green is your Volvo? Its manufacturer is happy to tell you, in its recently published Environmental Product Declaration, a cradle-to-grave look at the pollution generated by the manufacturing, use and eventual dismantling of its S80 luxury sedan.
"It's our judgment that consumers have a right to this kind of information," said Hans-Olov Olsson, president and chief executive of Volvo Cars of North America. "It lets people know about the environmental processes that are ongoing within the company." 
 Some of Volvo's categories are familiar, like exhaust emissions (the company gives itself various scores from 9 to 90 percent, depending on pollutant) and parts recyclability (50 to 100 percent). But the product declaration also looks at a process not often discussed -- the actual manufacturing of the car in Torslanda, Sweden -- and it admits there is room for improvement.
Although Volvo has made big gains in cleaning up emissions from the paint shop, generally the dirtiest part of any car plant (Volvo gave itself a 91 percent score), and has little material waste (86 percent), it scolds itself for using too much energy to build the S80 (46 percent).
No other auto company offers such a holistic look at the environmental impact of its operations, but all of them care about the image they project. So they promote everything from air-conditioning refrigerants free of chlorofluorocarbons to brake pedals made from recycled tires.
It is not surprising, then, that there was an outcry from the car makers that scored poorly in the environmental ratings of 56 United States car plants by the Council on Economic Priorities, a nonprofit research institution in New York that advocates what it calls responsible corporate behavior. Mitsubishi came in last of eight manufacturers in the council's reckoning, with Honda next to last. The top scorer in the weighted ratings was DaimlerChrysler, followed, in descending order, by General Motors, BMW, Ford, Nissan and Toyota.
Honda was particularly wounded, since it plans to introduce soon the Insight, a very clean, fuel-efficient hybrid-power car, and its president, Nobuhiko Kawamoto, said last year that the company was willing to put "everything on the table" to fight global warming and reduce greenhouse gases. Mitsubishi offers several cars with excellent fuel economy, and it recently successfully negotiated an end to a long-running boycott organized by the Rainforest Action Network over the company's forestry operations. It saw the bad publicity as not only unfair, but also particularly ill-timed.
Not surprisingly, the mood was more sanguine at DaimlerChrysler, the top-scoring company. James A. Carlson, director of pollution prevention and remediation, said that the results were "a positive acknowledgment that we've been pro-active in dealing with plant environmental issues."
Both Honda and Mitsubishi questioned the process by which the Council on Economic Priorities had scored the companies. Only 70 percent of the score was derived from the companies' actual environmental performance; 10 percent was based on an evaluation of their annual environmental reports. (Only Nissan failed to publish one.) The other 20 percent came from a ranking of environmental management systems. Honda and Mitsubishi were penalized for failing to return the council's detailed questionnaire.
"We fundamentally disagree with C.E.P.'s conclusions, which are, frankly, unsupportable," said Roger Lambert, senior manager of company communications for Honda. "They said they downgraded us because we didn't complete their survey form, but we shared with them extensive information that showed that even as our plants in Marysville and East Liberty, Ohio, were increasing production by 30 percent from 1994 to 1997, they were also decreasing per-unit chemical emissions by 71 percent."
Mr. Lambert said that starting in 1990, Honda was an "aggressive" participant in an Environmental Protection Agency program to reduce emissions of 33 chemicals by 50 percent over five years. The East Liberty plant, he said, was the first in the nation to switch to cleaner water-based paint, in 1989, and was the first to use returnable containers for parts delivery. Honda also pioneered the salvage of auto-body stamping scrap for use in brake and engine parts.
At the Council on Economic Priorities, Romi Gottfrid, an environmental research associate who was a principal author of the report, disagreed with Honda about the data the company provided. "They sent us nothing," she said. "We didn't even get the glossy public relations handouts."
Mitsubishi accused the council of misreading toxic-emissions data that manufacturers report annually. A spokeswoman, Gael O'Brien, said: "Mitsubishi performs all functions such as stamping, welding, painting and assembly in one facility, while most other auto makers have separate sites for these operations. And those other facilities report their emissions separately." She added that the council had failed to give the company full credit for recycling. "Less than 6 percent of the emissions we generate are actually released," she said.
Judged solely on its generation of pollutants, as measured by 1996 toxic-emissions data, the Mitsubishi plant in Normal, Ill., is unquestionably the nation's dirtiest, producing 21.6 pounds of toxic chemicals per vehicle. But E.P.A. data indicate that Mitsubishi has an 85 percent recycling and recovery rate. And the agency offers caveats about drawing conclusions from raw data.
In response to Mitsubishi's complaints, Ms. Gottfrid said the council stressed reducing pollution at the source. In response to a letter from Mitsubishi, the council said, "Controlling pollution is the old way of looking at the problem, versus the new way, which is pollution prevention."
If reports like the Council on Economic Priorities' are a stick to goad corporations into building cleaner plants, the voluntary principles outlined by another group, the Council for Environmentally Responsible Economies, are a carrot to move them forward gently. Among auto companies, only General Motors is a signatory, but corporations outside the industry, including Polaroid and the Body Shop, have signed on. The nonspecific principles call on manufacturers to, among other things, "reduce and where possible eliminate waste through source reduction and recycling."
Does the public care about dirty auto plants? The 1999 edition of "The Green Guide to Cars and Trucks" by John DeCicco and Martin Thomas (American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, $8.95) notes, "Most of the environmental impact associated with motor vehicles occurs when they are used." Manufacturing accounts for 9 percent of the energy eventually used by a typical car, the book says.
The Council on Economic Priorities has tried to bring plant emissions to the forefront by enlisting a public relations firm and providing bulk copies of postcards that are pre-addressed to the president of Mitsubishi Motor Manufacturing, Michino Yamashita. "Your Normal facility yields four times the toxic emissions of the best auto manufacturer in the U.S.A.," the cards say.
Bad publicity hurts, but do cleaner companies benefit from high scores? "Consumers aren't yet demanding environmentally friendly products, and they're definitely not prepared to pay for them," Mr. Olsson of Volvo acknowledged.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Energy Used in a Car's Life": The energy that runs a vehicle represents only about three-quarters of the total used in the vehicle's life span, from its assembly to its eventual dismantling and disposal. (Source: Green Guide to Cars and Trucks)
 
Chart: "Ranking the Greenest and the Meanest": In its "Green Guide to Cars and Trucks," the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy rates vehicles' impact on the environment based on factors like tailpipe emissions, fuel economy and an estimate of pollutants emitted during the maufacturing process. (The report, which costs $8.95, is available by calling (202) 429-0063 or can be ordered through the group's web site: http://www.aceee.org/greencars/index.htm.) Chart compares top and bottom rankings for 1999 models.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (86%); 7267 (TSE) (86%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VOLVO AB; COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (86%); VOLVO CARS OF NORTH AMERICA INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES (59%); COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: VOLVO AB; COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES (59%); COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC PRIORITIES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AIR POLLUTION; ENERGY EFFICIENCY; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; ELECTRIC VEHICLES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RAIN FORESTS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%); TIRES (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (70%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (50%); 

PERSON: MOTAVALLI, JIM

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



527 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN CLIMBS. The dollar sank to a five-month low against the Japanese yen as United States stocks and bonds fell on concern that interest rates will rise. In New York, the dollar slid to 116.70 yen, from 118.10 on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Feb. 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



528 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Bush's Speech on Goals

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from a speech delivered yesterday in Indianapolis by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the front-runner for the Republican Party's Presidential nomination, as provided by Mr. Bush's Presidential exploratory committee:
 Today I want to propose a different role for Government, a fresh start, a bold new approach. 
 In every instance where my Administration sees a responsibility to help people, we will look first to faith-based organizations, charities and community groups that have shown their ability to save and change lives. We will make a determined attack on need, by promoting the compassionate acts of others. We will rally the armies of compassion in our communities to fight a very different war against poverty and hopelessness, a daily battle waged house to house and heart by heart.
This will not be the failed compassion of towering, distant bureaucracies. On the contrary, it will be Government that serves those who are serving their neighbors. It will be Government that directs help to the inspired and the effective. It will be Government that both knows its limits and shows its heart. And it will be Government truly by the people and for the people.
We will take this path, first and foremost, because private and religious groups are effective, because they have clear advantages over government.
Sometimes the idea of compassion is dismissed as soft or sentimental. But those who believe this have not visited these programs. Compassion is not one of the easy virtues.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



529 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A blitz by new media helps old media foil forecasts of doom.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE boom in the new media of the Internet is supposed to portend the beginning of the end for traditional media along with a similar fate for the traditional advertising agency. But don't waste time trying to tell those purported dinosaurs about their impending doom: They're too busy counting the money pouring in from, of all places, the very companies that are supposedly going to put them out of business.
The rush among Internet companies to promote their brands to computer users is turning into a gold rush for television, radio, newspapers, magazines and outdoor advertising, not to mention the mainstay Madison Avenue agencies. 
 "The economy is strong and advertising is good anyway," said Stephen B. Shepard, editor in chief of Business Week magazine in New York, published by the McGraw-Hill Companies. "But because of technology and E-commerce, we're blowing the doors off."
"Our summer issues are like April or October fat," he added. "There are tons of ads from companies you didn't know a few months ago -- and in some cases, you hadn't heard of till you see the ad."
How robust is the growth for the traditional media from the on-line media? While spending among all advertisers in traditional media in the first quarter of 1999 rose 4.6 percent from figures in the period a year earlier -- according to Competitive Media Reporting, a research unit of VNU N.V. -- the largest gain by far came in the category of new media: up 183.1 percent, to $284.2 million from $100.4 million.
"It's just like when the medium of TV got turned on, and ad budgets escalated geometrically," said Jonathan Bond, co-chairman at Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners, an agency that works for cyberspace clients like the DLJ Direct on-line brokerage firm and Theglobe.com at its New York and San Francisco offices.
"It's a race," Mr. Bond said. "The first one to become a brand wins."
To become a brand, a product must gain awareness among consumers. But the new media still lag behind the traditional media in how many consumers they reach; for instance, about 37 million households have Internet access while about 100 million have TV sets.
"Especially for businesses that are trying to target people who are on the fence about going on line, the traditional media are obviously the best place to reach an audience not quite there yet," said Patrick Keane, director for on-line advertising strategies at the consulting company Jupiter Communications in New York.
So in addition to the hefty sums spent by the new media in the new media to advertise themselves, they must also turn to the old media, at least for the moment, to reach mass audiences to advertise their wares.
"Right now, it's a feeding frenzy," said O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the industry trade association in New York.
"It's ironic that all the 'dot coms' are using off-line media to attract people to their sites," he added. "But you cannot do on the Net what you can do in a 30-second television commercial or a strong newspaper ad."
Indeed, newspapers are scrambling to keep up with the additional demand for ad space.
"The one word I would use is explosive," said Jyll F. Holzman, senior vice president for advertising at The New York Times. "It's triple-digit growth."
"An account that wanted to spend $2 million in eight weeks came in yesterday," she added, "and it was 35 minutes from 'We're interested' to 'We'll commit.' That does not happen every day."
The Times plans to run a special news section about E-commerce on Sept. 22, Ms. Holzman said, and "it could have the most advertising of any special section ever to appear in our pages."
The sibling print medium of magazines is reporting similar strength. For the first six months of 1999, new- media companies spent $111.5 million to advertise in magazines. That was 154 percent above the $44 million spent in the period a year earlier -- and almost as much as the $117 million spent during all of 1998.
"The reports of our demise are premature," said Chris Miller, executive vice president for marketing at the Magazine Publishers of America, the trade association.
"Nobody is going to kill anybody," she added. "The media are all being married to each other."
Even the most prosaic media are benefiting.
"If you sit on the beach as I did last weekend," said F. Stone Roberts, co-chairman and chief executive at Gotham Inc. in New York, an agency owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies that handles cyberclients like America Online and WebMD, "half the banners you see planes towing are for 'dot com' businesses."
"They had a little something different in mind when they used to talk about 'banner ads,' " he added.
Another form of outdoor advertising, billboards, is also thriving, particularly in what Tom Bedecarre, chairman at Citron Haligman Bedecarre/Euro RSCG in San Francisco, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas Advertising, described as "the top wired markets." Those are cities like Boston, Denver and San Francisco in addition to the giants like Los Angeles and New York.
"Billboards along Highway 101 near the San Francisco airport and in Silicon Valley go for $15,000 to $25,000 a month," said Neil Cohen, senior vice president for business affairs at Adauction.com in San Francisco. Last week, his company auctioned several sites for an average of 35 percent more than the already high prevailing prices.
"We started in remnant, distressed media," Mr. Cohen said. "But an auction also works when something is scarce, in demand."
The demand in traditional media is keeping traditional agencies busy.
"We must get five calls a day saying, 'We've got $2 million to spend and we like your E*Trade advertising,' " said Rich Silverstein, co-chairman and creative director at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco. "I can't even keep track of it."
"The reason they seem to need us is that we have to give them a brand, a soul," said Mr. Silverstein, whose agency, a unit of Omnicom Group, recently landed big "dot com" accounts like E*Trade, the on-line brokerage firm, and Ebay, the auction Web site. "There isn't a lot of soul on the Internet."
San Francisco is a hotbed of account activity because of its proximity to Silicon Valley.
"We went from no 'dot com' accounts to five in the last six months," said Mr. Bedecarre, referring to new clients like Cnet and Women.com. "And it will be six tomorrow; we were just hired by someone else."
"We love working with these clients," he added, "because there's a greater conviction in the on-line world that advertising works than in the off-line world."
That feeling is fueled by cash raised in initial public offerings and from venture capitalists, who encourage ad spending to build businesses and market valuations by building brands.
"In the old days, ad spending was funded by profits," Mr. Bond said, "and no profits meant no ad spending. But now there's a paradigm shift. It's O.K. to spend money on advertising without profits; your financial strategy and your marketing strategy are intertwined."
Still, Madison Avenue is less than exuberant about all the new new-media work.
"This is the time you have to be very careful," Mr. Silverstein said. "Not all these companies are going to make it."
"Tell me where is Tucker, Hudson, Studebaker?" he asked, referring to defunct car brands. "It all sorted out to the Big Three."
Mr. Bond agreed.
"It's all risky," Mr. Bond said. "I'm not bragging about our Internet assignments."
"I'll be honest with you," he added. "I've got to find some boring old bricks-and-mortar clients."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Big Spenders" lists the leading new media spenders in traditional media (TV, radio, print, outdoor). (Source: Competitive Media Reporting)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MHFI (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (66%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMPETITIVE MEDIA REPORTING MCGRAW HILL FINANCIAL INC (69%); THE NIELSEN CO BV (66%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (53%); THEGLOBE.COM INC (52%); NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPETITIVE MEDIA REPORTING NEW YORK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION; RADIO; NEWSPAPERS; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; MAGAZINES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); ONLINE TRADING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



530 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Pepsi Acknowledges Role in Putting Coca-Cola Under Inquiry

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
The European Commission's raid this week on Coca-Cola offices in four countries followed complaints from competitors, including Pepsico, that had accused Coke of unfair business practices intended to keep rival products off store shelves.
Pepsico acknowledged yesterday that it had informed European Commission officials that it believed Coca-Cola was abusing its dominant position in the European market. The acknowledgment indicates that the cola wars have moved to a fresh international arena. While Pepsi executives had said they would not exploit Coke's problems that arose from a recall in Europe earlier this month, they appeared less constrained over Coke's already difficult relationship with the European Commission. 
 "Late last year, we expressed our concern about certain Coca-Cola practices that we believe are unlawful, and this year we filed a formal complaint with the commission," a Pepsi spokesman, Richard Detwiler, said yesterday. He would not elaborate on what those practices were. But the European Union's competition commissioner, Karel van Miert, said yesterday that the inquiry centered on whether Coke had used its power as the biggestseller of soft drinks to dissuade retailers from stocking rival products.
Mr. van Miert said European regulators suspected Coke had used illegal incentives in Denmark, Austria and Hungary. They included rebates for meeting growth targets and for offering a full range of Coke products, and payments for exclusivity.
He also said there were "indications that Coca-Cola is granting very significant promotional rebates in the form of price reductions or free products, which are sold by participating buyers, like supermarkets, during promotions."
A Coca-Cola spokesman denied the accusations, saying, "We are confident that at the conclusion of this process, the Coca-Cola Company's business practices will be found to be within all laws and regulations."
Earlier this year, Mr. van Miert castigated Coca-Cola executives over plans to acquire most of the overseas rights to Cadbury Schweppes brands, accusing the soft-drink giant of trying to sidestep European Union antitrust rules. Coke maintains that it and the European officials interpreted the requirements differently.
Investigators from Mr. van Miert's office swooped into Coke offices in Austria, Hungary and Denmark early Monday and Tuesday, seizing documents from company files. They also seized papers from company offices in London.
At a meeting with analysts in New York yesterday, Coke's chairman and chief executive, M. Douglas Ivester, played down what had happened. "It's a pretty routine thing," he said. "It happens. It's not the first time. It's been happening in other industries." He added: "I sort of expected it, that as this wave was going through, someone in the E.U. would say, 'Oops, we forgot Coca-Cola.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (92%); PEP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (84%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); EUROPE (97%); HUNGARY (93%); DENMARK (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; COCA-COLA CO; PEPSICO INC COCA-COLA CO (92%); PEPSICO INC (84%); CADBURY LTD (58%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; COCA-COLA CO; PEPSICO INC EUROPEAN COMMISSION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENMARK; AUSTRIA; HUNGARY; EUROPE; EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); EUROPE (97%); HUNGARY (93%); DENMARK (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); SALES REBATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); SALES PROMOTIONS (77%); BEVERAGE MFG (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L; VAN MIERT, KAREL (COMR) VAN MIERT (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



531 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: 'Gimmick' Eased Passage Of Tax Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22

 BODY:
All day on Wednesday, Republican leaders negotiated with a small band of moderate Republicans who were threatening to bring down the party's cherished tax-cut bill on the ground that Congress might be risking money the Government did not have.
Finally, a compromise was contrived that satisfied both sides. The incremental reductions in income-tax rates would not go into effect, they agreed, in any year when there was not a budget surplus. 
 At first, the Republicans decided to measure whether a surplus existed by determining each year whether the national debt was lower than the previous year.
Then, shortly before midnight, they changed plans and decided that the gauge triggering tax cuts would be whether Government interest payments were lower than they were in the previous year.
The apparent reason for the change is that counting tax cuts, gross Government debt can be expected to rise slightly over the next 10 years because of transfers between Government accounts. That would mean tax cuts could not go into effect. But total interest payments are projected to fall because the Congressional Budget Office is forecasting lower interest rates.
When the vote was taken early today to put the restrictions into the tax bill, hardly any of the legislators knew what they were voting for.
In the light of day, when outside policy experts on both sides of the tax-cut debate had a chance to read the measure, they pronounced it absurd.
"It's just a dumb idea," said Stephen Entin, an economist at the Institute for Research on the Economics of Taxation, who was a Treasury official in the Reagan Administration and is a devotee of deep tax reductions.
Robert D. Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who is now an economist at the Brookings Institution and who opposes tax cuts, said, "It doesn't make a whole lot of sense."
But the experts can take solace in one point: Hardly anyone in Congress thinks the contrivance will become law.
"It was a gimmick, a smear of grease to get us past a sticky spot last night," said a senior Republican Congressman who spoke on condition of anonymity.
A top staff member on the Senate Finance Committee said there was no chance this would become part of a companion bill that will go before the Senate as early as next week.
The moderate Republicans in the House who agreed to the deal were breathing easier today after all the pressure they faced from their leaders on Wednesday.
"I didn't want to be part of killing a significant tax bill," said Representative Marge Roukema of New Jersey, adding that she could not have voted for the bill without the trigger mechanism.
What if the bill comes back from the conference with the Senate without the mechanism?
"We'll have to face that when we come to it," Ms. Roukema replied.
Another moderate, Representative Nick Smith of Michigan, who was one of the main authors of the compromise, said, "If this doesn't come back from conference, 40 Republicans will have to be convinced that our conferees really tried and couldn't do it. And even then some of us will be quite wary."
Here is how the mechanism would work: Each July, the budget office would determine whether total Government interest payments, to the public and to Government trust funds, were lower in the previous 12 months than they had been in the 12-month period before that.
If they were lower, then the cut in income-tax rates scheduled to go into effect the following Jan. 1 could be put into place. Otherwise, the tax cut would be postponed for a year. Then it would be subject to the same test of lower interest payments.
Under the bill, tax rates would fall by one percentage point in 2003 and continue to fall in annual increments until the reduction reached 10 percentage points in 2009.
The other tax cuts in the bill, like the reduction in capital gains rates and the abolition of inheritance taxes, would not be affected.
The worst problem cited by the policy experts is that interest payments, which depend not only on the size of the debt but also the level of interest rates, are not always a good measure of debt reduction.
Another problem is that if interest payments rise sharply from one year to the next and then fall slightly in the following year, a tax reduction would be allowed even though more interest was paid in the third year than in the first.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH INC (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E MARGE ROUKEMA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



532 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Clinton Aides Seek Alternatives To an I.M.F. Sale of Some Gold

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22

 BODY:
Faced with mounting opposition in Congress, the Clinton Administration began backing away today from plans to have the International Monetary Fund sell a portion of its gold reserves to finance debt relief for some of the world's poorest nations.
The Administration's plan, a legacy of former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, calls for the I.M.F. to sell up to 10 million ounces of gold on the open market. But gold prices have been falling, in part because of the I.M.F. plan and a sale by the Bank of England, and mining companies and gold-producing countries have lobbied to kill the plan. 
 A senior Treasury official, briefing reporters today, gave the first public acknowledgment that Congress was unlikely to approve the plan.
"We are exploring whether there are alternative ways of mobilizing I.M.F. gold reserves that would avoid any impact on the gold market and would be acceptable to the I.M.F.'s membership -- would command the support of Congress," he said. But the official declined to specify what kinds of alternatives the Treasury was considering.
On Wednesday, the chairman of the House Banking Committee, Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, said he opposed the plan to sell the gold. He said he feared that the sale would hurt many of the same countries that the United States was trying to help, including nations like South Africa that rely heavily on gold sales.
The initial logic of the sale was to turn a nonproductive I.M.F. asset, a portion of the gold that the international lending agency was given after it was created more than 50 years ago, into an income-producing asset. The money from the sale would be invested, with the proceeds used to help pay off the debts of the most indebted countries. Leaders of the Group of Seven industrial nations approved the plan in June.
But under the rules of the I.M.F., sale of the gold requires the approval of 85 percent of the monetary fund's members. Washington controls an 18 percent share of the fund, and Congress determines how the United States' vote is cast. Approval by the banking committee would be necessary, and Mr. Leach said today that he had determined that would not happen.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; BANK OF ENGLAND BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; BANK OF ENGLAND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MINES AND MINING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); APPROVALS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRENDS (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); MINES & MINING (70%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (58%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



533 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Large Luxury Condominiums Sell Steadily at East Side Tower

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
With 76 family-size apartments and amenities that include a screening room and personal wine-storage units, the Empire is the latest entry to Manhattan's luxury condominium market. The 32-story, $75 million building is rising on a site on the Upper East Side that was once home to the so-called Cottages, a row of 1930's stores topped by apartments overlooking an interior garden that supporters spent more than a year unsuccessfully trying to save.
Most of the apartments at the Empire will have two to four bedrooms, though there will be two one-bedroom models. The apartments range from 1,273 to 3,205 square feet, and many can be combined to create larger spaces. 
 Though the building, at 188 East 78th Street and Third Avenue, is still a year away from completion, contracts have been signed for 23 apartments since sales began six weeks ago. Prices, which have already been raised an average of almost 4 percent, range from $665,000 to $3.87 million, with penthouses going to $4.15 million, said Adrienne Albert, president of the Marketing Directors of Manhattan, the project's sales agent.
It is being developed by a joint venture of Davis & Partners and RFR Holding, developers of luxury rental buildings in the neighborhood. The Empire, the partners' first condominium project in Manhattan, joins a spate of similar projects developed in the last year as builders capitalize on what they say is a continuing demand for family-size condominiums.
The supply-demand imbalance has pushed the construction of luxury condominiums into new locations. "It used to be that buyers of luxury apartments needed to be on Fifth or Park Avenues," said Sachiko Goodman, managing director at Sumitomo Real Estate of Manhattan. These days, the buyers are different -- younger, with new money made on Wall Street, or overseas buyers -- and they prefer new buildings with large apartments and more amenities, she said.
But with each new project, said Louise Sunshine, president of the Sunshine Group, another Manhattan brokerage, developers are forced to come up with new services and amenities to make their buildings stand out. "Its like a game of one-upmanship," she said.
In turn, prices have risen to an average of $1,000 per square foot, or $1.6 million for a typical 1,600-square-foot, two-bedroom unit and $2.4 million for a 2,400-square-foot, three-bedroom apartment, Ms. Albert said. The average price per square foot rises to $1,100 on the Upper East Side and is 20 percent higher still for new units, she said. So far, the average sales price per square foot at the Empire is almost $1,100 and "we are contemplating raising prices again at the end of the summer," she said.
Ms. Sunshine said that as long as the economy remains strong and families continue to remain in Manhattan, demand will be steady.
Indicative of that is the pace of sales at the Empire. "If 200 to 300 condominiums were being developed, I would be very cautious, but I don't see that kind of production happening on the Upper East Side in the years to come," said Trevor Davis, one of the development partners.
"The demand is there for large apartments in this location." Mr. Davis added that since he and his partners control the entire blockfront on the west side of Third Avenue between 77th and 78th Streets, they "have preserved a corridor of light and air" and insured that another building could not be built next door.
The Empire project met with spirited opposition. A local group, the Coalition to Save the Cottages and Garden, unsuccessfully rallied to preserve the Cottages site, with its lush courtyard garden and eight apartments. After more than a year of legal wrangling, the remaining five tenants accepted a settlement from Mr. Davis and his partners to move, and the coalition lost its last attempt to have the site landmarked.
Last fall, the partners closed on the purchase of the site and began building the new tower. Mr. Davis said there would be a new interior garden, designed by Thomas Balsley Associates of Manhattan, as well as landscaped rooftop and terrace areas. The building's design also aims to maintain the character of the Cottages, he said.
The building, a 26-story tower topped by a gabled roof over a six-story base, will fill half the Third Avenue blockfront, with the tower portion at the northwest corner of 78th Street. Its base becomes two stories from the midblock to the 77th Street corner to incorporate the portion of the commercial and residential row that has been retained.
The design of the building, by Hartman-Cox Architects of Washington, also calls for refacing the Third Avenue facades of the old storefronts with the same rose-colored brick and precast stone simulating limestone that will be on the new tower. And the red brick exterior of four former Cottage apartments will be also be cleaned and restored or recreated, as will some of their architectural details, including their peaked roofed vestibules.
The Manhattan firm of Schuman Lichtenstein Claman Efron designed the apartments, all of which will have features like nine-foot ceilings on average and washers and dryers, and many will have terraces or balconies. Other building amenities include a private dining salon and children's playroom as well as an underground parking garage for 25 cars. There will also be 36 storage areas and 36 personal wine storage units available for purchase by residents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Empire will have 76 family-size apartments, 23 of which are already in contract. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DAVIS & PARTNERS; RFR HOLDINGS LLC; HARTMAN-COX ARCHITECTS DAVIS & PARTNERS LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAVIS & PARTNERS; RFR HOLDINGS LLC; HARTMAN-COX ARCHITECTS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; EMPIRE (NYC APARTMENT BUILDING); CONDOMINIUMS RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE TREVOR DAVIS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



534 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
How the Racial Literacy Gap First Opened

BYLINE: By BRENT STAPLES 

 BODY:
My great-grandfather John Wesley Staples (1865-1940) was vain about writing and scribbled even grocery lists theatrically, gesturing grandly with the pencil and pausing between words to lick its point. A fuss over a shopping list seems ridiculous -- until you consider that John Wesley was born in the slaveholding South, where educating black people was illegal until after the Civil War and where aggressively literate blacks were seen as subversive and even dangerous well into the 20th century. Modern writing on the role of race in academic achievement generally discounts this history. But the only way to grasp the extent of the problem is to acknowledge that black literacy was obstructed as a matter of law for more than a century.
John Wesley's father, also named John, was enslaved in Virginia in 1831, when the black Baptist firebrand Nat Turner led the bloody slave rebellion that terrified the whole of the plantation South. Slave owners blamed black literacy for the plot, and pursued what historians have since described as a program of "compulsory ignorance" to prevent slaves from colluding through written material. A Virginia state law passed in the year of the rebellion forbade schooling not just for slaves but for free Negroes as well -- forcing parents to exile their children into Northern states in order to educate them. 
 When free Negroes petitioned for relief, the legislature passed a deliberately vindictive statute, banishing from the state any child who left Virginia for the purpose of learning to read and write. Similar laws were passed quickly throughout the South and took an enormous toll. By the time John Wesley was born, only 1 in 10 Negro adults were literate.
"Compulsory ignorance" created a legacy of alienation from books and reading that has had a lingering effect on African-American achievement. The most pernicious fallout was a set of preconceptions -- often held by both blacks and whites -- that defined brawn work as black and brain work as an exclusively white activity. Of the many obstacles to academic excellence, expectations based in race have proved to be one of the most important -- and least-studied -- factors.
This could change with a forthcoming report from the National Task Force on Minority High Achievement, sponsored by the College Board. Many studies have scrutinized academic achievement among impoverished black students. But the task force study, one of the first of its kind, has ventured into affluent areas like Evanston, Ill., and Berkeley, Calif., to examine a disturbingly persistent achievement gap between blacks and whites who are essentially of the same class and economic backgrounds.
A recent article by The Times's Pam Belluck examining the task force's work in Evanston shows that the fallout of enforced illiteracy is still evident not just among the black poor but in the black middle class.
Black students who excel at school typically struggle with racial stereotypes and conflicted notions of ethnic identity. Some students absorb the broader society's view that they can never be first-rate students and give up trying. Those who excel are routinely attacked by their friends for "selling out" and becoming "white." Still others find themselves confronted by teachers and counselors who cannot conceive of them as academically inclined and discourage them from taking advanced courses.
Black families that urge their children on are historically less well equipped than whites to provide necessary supports. For one thing, the black parents are most often first-generation college graduates -- who grew up in households without books or systems that could support first-rate academic achievement. The current crop of black high achievers, then, is battling hostile cultural conditions -- and traveling a course that no one in the family has traveled before.
The National Task Force on Minority High Achievement will study these students at school, at home and among their peers -- in an attempt to produce more of them, more quickly. But what is already clear is that the leap from averageness to excellence for children of the black middle class will require discarding attitudes and preconceptions that were hundreds of years in the making. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: EDITORIAL OBSERVER (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TASK FORCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TASK FORCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS; TESTS AND TESTING; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SLAVERY (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HISTORY (76%); CHILDREN (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); 

PERSON: STAPLES, BRENT JOHN WESLEY (72%); JOHN WESLEY STAPLES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



535 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
MajorIndexes Close Lower After Fed Chief's Testimony

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks ended lower yesterday as Wall Street gave a bearish reading to comments from the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, about the economy and the stock market.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.56 points, or three-tenths of a percent, to 10,969.22, while the Nasdaq composite index slumped 77.33 points, or 2.8 percent, to 2,684.44. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 18.32 points, or 1.33 percent, to 1,360.97. 
 In his twice-yearly testimony to Congress, Mr. Greenspan said the surge in stock prices could be overdone.
"We do know that a significant part of the rise in prices reflects rising expected earnings and a goodly part of that is a very major change in the view of where productivity is going," Mr. Greenspan said.
"What we do not know is whether it is being overdone, or to what extent it is being overdone," he said.
Mr. Greenspan has repeatedly warned about the stock market's high valuation over the last few years. The most famous instance was in December 1996, when he questioned investors' "irrational exuberance" as the Dow hovered at 6,000.
As recently as last Friday, all of the major stock market indexes rocketed to new highs, with the Dow jumping to a record 11,209.84, propelled by strong corporate earnings.
Amazon.com plunged 18 1/4, to 107 3/16, yesterday after analysts predicted that the on-line retailer would keep losing money as it continued to spend heavily to expand into new businesses. Late Wednesday, the company, which is the Internet's biggest retailer, reported a loss of $82.8 million, compared with a loss of $17 million a year earlier.
The stock of the Internet service provider America Online ended 4 9/16 lower at 110 1/2 even though it posted revenue and earnings that topped Wall Street forecasts.
Also, a Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analyst, Mary Meeker, raised her earnings estimate for America Online for the fiscal years 2000 and 2001. Ms. Meeker said the company's lineup of branded product offerings was becoming more powerful, with 17.6 million paying subscribers.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Bond Prices Suffer Loss
 By Bloomberg News
Bond prices suffered their biggest loss in a month after the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, said yesterday that the economy might be growing fast enough to prompt the Fed's second interest rate increase this year.
"The Fed is still very much in the picture," said Steven Bohlin, who helps manage $1.9 billion of bonds at the Thornburg Management Company in Santa Fe, N.M. Mr. Bohlin expects the Fed to increase rates at its next meeting, which will be held Aug. 24, and possibly again after that. He is holding new cash that comes into his funds instead of investing it, for now, as protection in case bonds fall more.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 2 7/32, to 90 4/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.96 percent from 5.9 percent on Wednesday.
Bonds fell as Mr. Greenspan delivered his twice-yearly testimony to Congress. "If new data suggest it is likely that the pace of cost and price increases will be picking up, the Federal Reserve will have to act promptly and forcefully," he said.
The Fed raised its target for overnight lending between banks, the Federal funds rate, to 5 percent from 4.75 percent last month to try to cool economic expansion, now in its ninth year, and head off inflation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since July 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%); AOL INC (53%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); BRANDING (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (63%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



536 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Ernst & Young Gets Breaks To Stay in New York City

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
In a deal that marks the first time the city has granted tax breaks to keep an accounting firm from leaving, the Giuliani administration and the state have agreed to provide Ernst & Young with a $20 million incentive package to build a skyscraper in Times Square.
Ernst & Young, one of the largest accounting firms in the world, would move to a new 37-story office tower at the southwest corner of 42d Street and Seventh Avenue, next door to the New Amsterdam Theater, from its current headquarters on Seventh Avenue at 52d Street. The new site sits across the street from one office tower nearing completion, 4 Times Square, and another tower just starting construction, the Reuters Building. Five blocks to the north, a hotel is under construction. 
 On Wednesday night, Ernst & Young signed a deal for its new headquarters with Boston Properties, the real estate company that controls the development site , according to executives and officials involved in the negotiations. City and state officials said yesterday that they were completing the details of an incentive package for the company that would include $10 million in tax breaks on the purchase of equipment and machinery, a $2 million training grant and a discount on electrical power worth $5.5 million. City officials said the deal would not be formally approved until Aug. 10.
The Ernst & Young deal amounts to a second subsidy for the building. Under the 42d Street redevelopment project, the site itself has property tax breaks worth $236.4 million over 20 years.
The city has long provided tax breaks to banks, media companies and other large corporations that threatened to leave New York. But until now it had refused to grant subsidies to law firms, architects and accountants on the theory that those kinds of services would not leave the city because they need to be close to their corporate clients.
Randy Levine, deputy mayor for economic development, said the city would reap many benefits from the Ernst & Young deal, which is principally tied to job growth. The accounting firm would get the full value of the package only if it adds 6,000 employees to its current workforce of 4,000 over the next 20 years, he said.
"We look at things on a case-by-case basis," Mr. Levine said. "They're creating an extraordinary number of jobs and there's going to be a new building. I think it's one of the better transactions the city has done."
But urban planners, economists and budget watchdogs who describe these deals as corporate welfare said the Giuliani administration was setting the stage for other accounting firms to demand the same kind of incentives.
"This is totally unnecessary given the strength of the city's economy," said James Parrott, an economist with the Fiscal Policy Institute. "Unfortunately, it opens the door for yet another industry dominated by large profitable corporations to start lining up for these subsidies."
Indeed, PricewaterhouseCoopers, another large accounting firm, is negotiating to build an office tower at 42d Street and the Avenue of the Americas and plans to ask the city for tax breaks, according to executives working with the company.
"It would be a lot better to devote those tax revenues to improving the overall business climate for economic development and jobs," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission.
The Ernst & Young deal has also dismayed some executives at both the city and state economic development agencies.
"The economy gets better and we give out more and more money," one executive said. "How does that make sense?"
Last spring, Ernst & Young had threatened to move some employees to Jersey City if it did not receive a $65 million tax break, a sum that both city and state officials said they thought was ludicrous. The state agreed to provide a small training grant and a $4.5 million sales tax exemption, but the city initially balked at granting any additional subsidies at such a desireable site.
Robert E. Selsam, senior vice president of Boston Properties, declined to comment other than to say the company was completing the acquisition of the site. Leslie C. Zuke, a spokesman for Ernst & Young, said, "There's no final deal." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG; BOSTON PROPERTIES ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ERNST & YOUNG; BOSTON PROPERTIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; TAXATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (85%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); LABOR FORCE (71%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



537 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Warns About Stocks and Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, warned anew about euphoric stock markets today and pledged to act "promptly and forcefully" to prevent any revival of inflation.
He then infuriated some House Republicans by characterizing their drive for a huge, immediate tax cut as premature and economically unwise. 
 Wall Street quickly interpreted Mr. Greenspan's testimony to the House Banking Committee as a warning that the Fed's Open Market Committee is more likely to raise interest rates, possibly as early as its next meeting in August but almost certainly by October unless the economy slows from its current robust pace.
Mr. Greenspan's comments "left little doubt that he is nervous about inflation risks in the United States," said Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America in New York.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which plunged from its high for the day by more than 100 points after Mr. Greenspan began talking, rallied a bit before the close, ending down 33.56 points at 10,969.22. But the broader market -- especially growth-oriented technology stocks -- fell much more sharply.
And the bond market, which is extremely sensitive to the potential for Fed action, tumbled as the rate on the 30-year Treasury, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, climbed to 5.96 percent from its close of 5.90 percent on Wednesday.
In answering questions from lawmakers, Mr. Greenspan hedged his comments, acknowledging that there is no evidence yet of inflation's imminent return. But his prepared remarks, which express the views of the entire group of Fed policy makers, were more hawkish than many had expected and suggested that the Fed's recent modest rise in short-term interest rates will not necessarily be its last.
When the Fed nudged rates higher by a quarter of a percentage point on June 30, it said it had taken a "neutral stance" on the future direction of interest rates. But that position, Mr. Greenspan made clear today, did not preclude acting as soon as the Fed sees imbalances emerging in the economy.
"If new data suggest it is likely that the pace of cost and price increases will be picking up," Mr. Greenspan said, "the Federal Reserve will have to act promptly and forcefully."
He also expressed concerns about an overheated stock market. In a more muted version of his famous 1996 comments about "irrational exuberance," he discussed the risks of a euphoria that exceeds any reasonable assessement of returns.
"The danger is that in these circumstances, an unwarranted, perhaps euphoric, extension of recent developments can drive equity prices to levels that are unsupportable even if risks in the future become relatively small," he said.
 While Wall Street focused on Mr. Greenspan's comments on the likelihood of another rise in short-term interest rates, Washington focused on his unusually clear warning to Republicans about their plan to cut taxes by $792 billion in the next 10 years. The subject came up several times, and Mr. Greenspan's message was stern: Don't do it.
"I'm saying hold off for a while," Mr. Greenspan said just two hours before the House approved the tax bill. "And I'm saying that because the timing is not right."
Mr. Greenspan urged Congress to pay down the debt and delay any tax cut until the economy begins to turn down. "The business cycle is not dead," he warned, telling lawmakers that whenever an economic slowdown hits, "a significant tax cut" may be needed to ward off recession.
Mr. Greenspan was quick to add, as he has many times before, that tax cuts are preferable to increased spending. Republicans have often cited this in support of their plan.
But the Fed chairman openly disagreed with Republicans like Rep. Merril A. Cook of Utah, who asked, "What's wrong with moving down that path simultaneously?" -- that is, paying down the $5.6 trillion national debt and cutting taxes.
Mr. Greenspan responded that tax cuts should wait until the debt is clearly shrinking. "Once we know we really have got it locked in place," he said, and "if we are not being confronted with a large number of spending programs, which try to eat up the surplus, I think at that point we can basically focus on getting important tax cuts in place."
Effectively, Mr. Greenspan was siding with the White House, Democrats in the House and a small number of moderate Republicans who have argued that the tax cut passed today is too big and too soon. No sooner had he spoken than some Democrats were repeating his words on the House floor in last-minute, unsuccessful arguments against the tax-cut bill.
"At some point -- I don't know when that is going to be -- this economy is going to slow down and perhaps slow down quite significantly," Mr. Greenspan said.
"At that point, I would suspect that a significant tax cut, mainly of marginal tax rates and capital gains tax rates, might be a very useful and timely vehicle to sustain an economy which is otherwise weakening."
The markets shrugged off Mr. Greenspan's longer-term predictions of a slowdown and focused on his assessment of whether the Fed would act pre-emptively to slow the economy. "Most of the time we can't be pre-emptive because, as I point out in my remarks, the future is opaque," said Mr. Greenspan, who is widely considered an expert on opacity.
On monetary policy, he ran through the familiar litany of potential problems that could fuel inflation: A slowdown in the growth of productivity improvements, continued labor shortages, rising oil prices. But he stopped short of saying that he saw an immediate threat.
Mr. Greenspan said he would be paying particularly close attention to the next report on job growth in the economy, due in early August, and to changes in commodity prices, which can be a useful indicator of early price pressures and the strength of industrial activity.
He also played down the risks of weakness in the global economy, saying that the fears last year that prompted the Fed to cut rates in the fall have eased considerably.
"Greenspan's testimony," said Tim O'Neill, chief economist at Harris Bank/Bank of Montreal, "suggests that he believes there is a high probability that interest rates will need to rise further to contain future inflation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Appearing before the House Banking Committee yesterday, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, vowed to act "promptly and forcefully" to head off any revival of inflation. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAWA (PAR) (56%); DAI (LSE) (56%); 8601 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DAIWA SECURITIES GROUP INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LAW AND LEGISLATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; SANGER, DAVID E ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



538 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the Fed Chairman's Testimony to Panel

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, presented his semiannual report on the economy to the House Banking Committee yesterday. Following are excerpts:
Last fall, the Federal Open Market Committee eased monetary policy to counter a seizing-up of financial markets that threatened to disrupt economic activity significantly. As those markets recovered, the F.O.M.C. had to assess whether that policy stance remained appropriate. By late last month, when it became apparent that much of the financial strain of last fall had eased, that foreign economies were firming, and that demand in the United States was growing at an unsustainable pace, the F.O.M.C. raised its intended Federal funds rate one-quarter percentage point, to 5 percent. To have refrained from doing so in our judgment would have put the U.S. economy's expansion at risk. . . . 
 The already shrunken pool of job-seekers and considerable strength of aggregate demand suggest that the Federal Reserve will need to be especially alert to inflation risks. Should productivity fail to continue to accelerate and demand growth persist or strengthen, the economy could overheat. That would engender inflationary pressures and put the sustainability of this unprecedented period of remarkable growth in jeopardy. One indication that inflation risks were rising would be a tendency for labor markets to tighten further. But the F.O.M.C. also needs to continue to assess whether the existing degree of pressure in these markets is consistent with sustaining our low-inflation environment. If new data suggest it is likely that the pace of cost and price increases will be picking up, the Federal Reserve will have to act promptly and forcefully so as to preclude imbalances from arising that would only require a more disruptive adjustment later -- one that could impair the expansion and bring into question whether the many gains already made can be sustained. . . .
By themselves, surges in economic growth are not necessarily unsustainable -- provided they do not exceed the sum of the rate of growth in the labor force and productivity for a protracted period. However, when productivity is accelerating, it is very difficult to gauge when an economy is in the process of overheating.
In such circumstances, assessing conditions in the labor market can be helpful in forming those judgments. Employment growth has exceeded the growth in working-age population this past year by almost one-half percentage point. While somewhat less than the spread between these growth rates over much of the past few years, this excess is still large enough to continue the further tightening of labor markets. It implies that real G.D.P. is growing faster than its potential. To an important extent, this excess of the growth of demand over supply owes to the wealth effect as consumers increasingly perceive their capital gains in the stock and housing markets as permanent and, evidently as a consequence, spend part of them. . . .
In its deliberations this year, the F.O.M.C. has had to wrestle with the issue of what policy setting has the capacity to sustain this remarkable expansion, now in its ninth year. For monetary policy to foster maximum sustainable economic growth, it is useful to pre-empt forces of imbalance before they threaten economic stability. But this may not always be possible -- the future at times can be too opaque to penetrate. When we can be pre-emptive, we should be, because modest pre-emptive actions can obviate more drastic actions at a later date that could destabilize the economy. I should emphasize that pre-emptive policy making is equally applicable in both directions, as has been evident over the years both in our inclination to raise interest rates when the potential for inflationary pressures emerged, as in the spring of 1994, or to lower rates when the more palpable risk was economic weakness, as in the fall of last year. This even-handedness is necessary because emerging adverse trends may fall on either side of our long-run objective of price stability. Stable prices allow households and firms to concentrate their efforts on what they do best: consuming, producing, saving, and investing. . . .
By itself, the interpretation that we are currently enjoying productivity acceleration does not insure that equity prices are not overextended. There can be little doubt that if the nation's productivity growth has stepped up, the level of profits and their future potential would be elevated. That prospect has supported higher stock prices. The danger is that in these circumstances, an unwarranted, perhaps euphoric, extension of recent developments can drive equity prices to levels that are unsupportable even if risks in the future become relatively small. Such straying above fundamentals could create problems for our economy when the inevitable adjustment occurs. It is the job of economic policy makers to mitigate the fallout when it occurs and, hopefully, ease the transition to the next expansion. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (92%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (92%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MONETARY POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); BONDS (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (67%); TAX LAW (61%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



539 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Hastert Triumphs, but Faces a Long High-Stakes Negotiation

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22

 BODY:
By narrowly securing passage of a $792 billion tax cut today, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert won a sweet victory and avoided a precipitous collapse of his party's bargaining position for budget talks with President Clinton. But there is still a long road ahead in a high-stakes negotiation that is likely to set down many of the themes of the 2000 campaign.
Once again, Republicans are staking their identity and their majority on vast tax cuts, even though the tax rebellion that propelled Ronald Reagan into office nearly two decades ago has subsided as the economy has boomed. A $792 billion reduction would be the largest since Mr. Reagan pushed through a reduction in income tax rates in 1981. 
 "We should not miss the purpose of the Republican Party and conservative philosophy," Representative John Kasich, Republican of Ohio, said today, arguing for the tax cut. "It is our mission in this city to shift power and influence from this city back to the people who sit in the gallery and watch on television and pull the wagon."
Democrats, too, see this looming confrontation as a defining moment for the 2000 campaign. President Clinton this week repeatedly showcased his party's stance, with his threats to veto the Republican bill.
"We face a critical choice," Mr. Clinton said, "whether to move forward with the fiscal discipline that got us to where we are today or return to the kind of risk-taking that got us into recessions and deficits before."
The head-to-head confrontation between Mr. Clinton and the Republicans is still weeks off.
First, Republicans have to agree among themselves. Though Mr. Hastert survived another near-death experience by pushing through the tax cut, the effort he had to exert to earn the last votes from Republican moderates showed that even tax cuts no longer serve as glue for the Republican Party. And from the right, the Presidential candidate Steve Forbes complained that the House's tax cut was too timid.
House and Senate Republicans are promoting separate bills that cut taxes by $792 billion, and share common goals of having broad-based tax cuts, spurring savings and investment and reducing the so-called marriage penalty, which causes some couples to pay more taxes once they marry.
Their approaches, however, are at times sharply different and will have to be resolved in a House-Senate conference committee. The House bill, for example, is tilted more toward the wealthy. It includes a 10 percent across-the-board cut in income taxes phased in across a decade. The Senate bill would reduce the lowest income tax rate to 14 percent from 15 percent and increase the number of Americans who pay at the lowest rate.
Whatever bill comes out of conference will be vetoed by President Clinton as too large; then the battle for public opinion will begin in earnest.
The stirrings could be heard on the House floor today as Republicans argued just as they had in the Reagan years that tax cuts would stimulate the economy, while Democrats remembered how the tax cut of 1981 contributed to the deficits that were a persistent problem for the next decade.
But the nation's economic picture has changed since Mr. Reagan swept into office riding discontent with high inflation and high taxes. And it is not at all clear that the political climate favors Republican tax-cutters at a time of low unemployment and a booming economy.
A poll released today by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, showed that when Americans were asked which issue they would like to hear discussed in the Presidential campaign, health care, Social security and Medicare all drew more interest than tax cuts, which was listed by just 9 percent of the public.
The poll showed that the public could be open to tax cuts, for the part of the surplus that is not attributable to Social Security payroll taxes -- which explains why the Republican budget makes a point of setting aside the Social Security funds so they can not be used for other spending programs or for tax cuts. But even that support seemed to depend on how poll questions were phrased.
When asked what should be done with the surplus after reserving two-thirds for Social Security, support for tax cuts was relatively high when people were not given specific spending alternatives. Sixty percent of those polled supported a tax cut, while only 25 percent wanted "new federal programs."
Support for tax cuts fell off significantly, however, when people were asked whether they preferred tax cuts or spending on education, the environment, health care, crime-fighting and military defense. Sixty-nine percent of the public wanted the remaining surplus spent on those programs while only 22 percent favored a tax cut.
The Federal Reserve Chairman, Alan Greenspan, told a House hearing today that it is more important to pay down the national debt than cut taxes. Debt reduction, he said, would lower interest rates and put the Government in better shape for the retirement of the Baby Boom generation.
Despite the heated debate the outlines of a budget and tax cut compromise are already visible if the two parties decide they want accomplishments over campaign issues. Mr. Clinton's own budget proposed $250 billion in tax cuts. And a handful of Senate Democrats have already signaled their willingness to go along with a $500 billion tax cut. A grand deal would involve Mr. Clinton's agreeing to a larger tax cut perhaps in exchange for support of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit he has proposed.
But for now neither the White House or Congressional Democrats are making an effort to help Republicans out of the problem they have created for themselves by their pledges to protect Social Security and to provide the near-$1 trillion tax cut.
With little money left for other needs, Republicans have not been able to find a way to pass the crucial spending bills for labor, health, veterans and education programs because the cuts required would be too deep to be politically viable.
And that only increases Mr. Clinton's own negotiating position come the end of September, when the new fiscal year begins. The last thing the Republicans want is to be accused again of shutting down the Government.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); REPUBLICAN OF OHIO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); REPUBLICAN OF OHIO (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); VETO (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MARRIAGE (64%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KASICH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



540 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Let New Moms Leave the Office

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As a scholar of work-family policies and the mother of a 2-year-old, I was dismayed to read Danielle Crittenden's critique of paid family and medical leave proposals (Op-Ed, July 21). 
 It is true that children need their parents throughout their lives, and ideally our country's family policy would include things like child subsidies and incentives for businesses to create good part-time jobs, to help parents who want to scale back or stop working. But it is doubtful that such a policy could pass under a Republican Congress, even with the enormous budget surpluses we are experiencing right now.
While paid family and medical leave would not solve the problem of parental time, it would be an important first step. It would allow parents to be relatively free of economic worry at those critical times when their children are very young or very ill.
 
ANYA BERNSTEIN
Newton, Mass., July 21, 1999
 
The writer is a lecturer in social studies at Harvard University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILD CARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FAMILY LEAVES FAMILY (92%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (90%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); CHILD CARE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); BUDGETS (68%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, ANYA; CRITTENDEN, DANIELLE DANIELLE CRITTENDEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



541 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: REPUBLICANS PASS BIG TAX CUT TO SET STAGE FOR DEBATE

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22

 BODY:
Republicans in the House put down their marker today in the debate over how to allocate projected Federal budget surpluses, passing the largest tax cut in nearly two decades despite a veto threat from President Clinton.
The Republican plan, which would cut taxes by $792 billion over the next decade, passed on a largely party line vote of 223 to 208. Four Republicans voted against it and six Democrats voted in favor. 
 The outcome averted a major defeat for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and the rest of the Republican leaders, who scrambled throughout Wednesday to keep the bill from being derailed by objections from a dozen or so moderates within their own party.
The moderates said the tax cut was too big and left none of the surplus for debt reduction and needed spending, but most of them voted for the bill in the end after adding a complex and hastily written provision that makes a portion of the tax cut contingent on reducing the interest payments on the national debt.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, infuriated some House Republicans today by characterizing their drive for a huge tax cut as premature and economically unwise. Page C1.
The Republicans' bill calls for personal income tax rates to be cut gradually by 10 percent over the next decade, and for the top rate on capital gains to be reduced to 15 percent from 20 percent immediately.
It would also phase in a repeal of the tax on large inheritances, create a deduction for health insurance expenses, cut a variety of business taxes and reduce the so-called marriage penalty, which leaves many two-income couples paying a bigger tax bill than if they were single.
"So Mr. President, we say, what's wrong in letting American taxpayers keep more of their hard-earned money," Mr. Hastert said at a Republican pep rally after the vote. "We trust them to spend it right, and we think you should, too."
The House bill stands almost no chance of becoming law. But it represents the opening bid by conservatives as they head toward negotiations with the Senate, which is moving toward passage of its own, somewhat less partisan tax cut, and with Mr. Clinton, who despite his veto threat has opened the door to a smaller tax reduction.
The issue is among the most ideologically charged and politically potent facing Congress and the Clinton Administration this year.
Not since the 1920's has the Federal Government had a realistic prospect of taking in more money than it spends over a sustained period. Current estimates show the Government running a surplus of $2.9 trillion over the next 10 years, permitting both parties the luxury of setting out wish lists that reflect their basic philosophies about the size and role of the Federal Government, their approaches to long-term challenges like assuring the solvency of Social Security and their strategies for the 2000 elections.
Beyond ideology and politics, there is also economics. Mr. Greenspan, usually one of Washington's most outspoken proponents of tax cuts, suggested that Congress should concentrate instead on paring the national debt. Big tax cuts typically stimulate economic growth, and the Federal Reserve is already concerned that the economy is overheating.
"The timing is not right," Mr. Greenspan said in response to a question at the House Banking Committee a few hours before the vote on the tax bill.
"I think we will need a very important reduction in marginal tax rates," Mr. Greenspan said, "and in the capital gains tax rate at some point in the future when this economy inevitably falters."
On the House floor, Republicans swept aside criticism of their tax-cutting plan. Sending excess revenues back to the taxpayer, they said, was the best way to advance their goals of reducing the power of the Federal Government and increasing prosperity.
If the surplus is not used for tax cuts, they said, Democrats would inevitably use it for new spending programs. Even with a big tax cut, Republicans said there is already more than enough Federal money to pay for domestic and military spending and deal with the long-term problems in Medicare and Social Security.
Despite polls showing that most voters rank tax cuts behind Social Security, Medicare and debt reduction as the best use for the surplus, Republicans said a broad-based tax reduction would help the party recapture the conservative fervor of Ronald Reagan's first term as President, when Democrats in Congress acceded to an even bigger tax reduction.
"The Democrats believe they know best how to spend money by spending it with government," said Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the author of the Republican bill. "We believe the people know best how to spend their own money. And what this debate is really all about is downsizing the power of Washington and upsizing the power of people."
Democrats replied that the Republican plan was built on assumptions about future surpluses that might never materialize, risking the return of budget deficits and higher interest rates.
They said that by allocating to tax cuts nearly all of the portion of the surplus available for that purpose -- the $996 billion over the next decade that does not come from excess Social Security revenue -- Republicans were missing the country's best chance to do more to shore up Social Security and Medicare and to invest in education, health care, the environment and the military.
Moreover, Democrats said, the Republican tax cut is disproportionately tilted toward the wealthy.
Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the senior Democrat on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said the Republicans were pandering to their conservative base with an irresponsible bill that they knew would never be signed into law. The Republicans' intention, Mr. Rangel said, is to create a "Christmas tree" and cast Mr. Clinton in the role of Scrooge.
"Your bill is what we call in Harlem a trip to nowhere," Mr. Rangel said.
Mr. Clinton also kept up the pressure on the Republicans, repeating his veto threat for a second straight day.
"I believe that this plan that's being voted on in Washington will not enable us to pay off our debt," Mr. Clinton said today on a trip to Lansing, Mich. "It will not do anything to add to the life of Social Security and Medicare. It will require huge cuts in our other investments and taking care of our kids. And I will veto it if it passes."
After the frantic bargaining between House Republican leaders and party moderates on Wednesday, there was relatively little drama in today's vote. Most of the moderates who had threatened to defect said they were satisfied that the leadership had taken their concerns seriously and had agreed to their demand that the largest component of the tax cut -- the phased-in reduction in personal income tax rates -- take effect only if regular progress is made in bringing down the national debt.
But there was considerable confusion on both sides of the aisle about just how the contingency would work in practice, and whether it was anything more than an expedient way of holding the fractious Republican majority together for a few hours to get the tax bill passed. Even some of the moderates said they did not expect the provision to survive when the House and the Senate reconcile their tax-cut bills in coming weeks.
The four Republicans who voted against the bill were Representatives Michael N. Castle of Delaware, who had led the moderate revolt; Jack Quinn of New York; Greg Ganske of Iowa, and Constance A. Morella of Maryland.
The six Democrats who voted in favor of the bill were Representatives Sanford D. Bishop Jr. of Georgia; Virgil H. Goode Jr. of Virginia; Ralph M. Hall of Texas; Gary A. Condit of California; Pat Danner of Missouri, and Ken Lucas of Kentucky.
Three members of the House did not vote. They were Representatives Patrick J. Kennedy, the Rhode Island Democrat, who was attending services for his cousin, John F. Kennedy Jr.; Jim McDermott of Washington, a Democrat, and John E. Peterson of Pennsylvania, a Republican. There is one vacancy among the 435 seats in the House.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, the House leaders Dick Armey, Bill Archer, Bill Thomas, J. Dennis Hastert and Tom DeLay applauded yesterday after passing a plan to cut taxes by $792 billion over 10 years. (Shana Raab for The New York Times); Representative Michael N. Castle, Republican of Delaware, left, and Representative Michael P. Forbes of New York, who joined the Democratic Party last week, voted against the tax cut, which passed by a vote of 223 to 208. Four Republicans voted against it and six Democrats voted in favor. (Photos by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A22)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (91%); TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); CONSERVATISM (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); MARRIAGE (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (74%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



542 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Filter Aid to Poor Through Churches, Bush Urges

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, July 22

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas said today that the Federal Government should "rally the armies of compassion in our communities" by providing tax incentives and Federal funds to churches and neighborhood groups to help the needy.
"Government can spend money," the Republican Presidential hopeful said. "But it cannot put hope in our hearts or a sense of purpose in our lives. That is done in churches and synagogues and mosques and charities that warm the cold of life." In his speech and in a news conference that followed, Mr. Bush spoke of the "transforming power of faith," a phrase nearly identical to that used by Vice President Gore when he called in May for a collaboration between Government and grass-roots groups to help those in need. 
 Campaigning at a Methodist church here, Mr. Bush gave the first major policy speech of a Presidential campaign that until today has been more notable for spectacular fund-raising, and the slogan "compassionate conservatism," than for any detailed discussion of issues. On this potentially sensitive issue of the role of religious institutions, Mr. Bush provided many of the specifics that his critics, including President Clinton at Wednesday's news conference, have chided him for neglecting.
Mr. Bush proposed spending $8 billion in Federal money, a sum he described as 10 percent of the budget surplus not derived from Social Security, "to encourage an outpouring of giving in America."
"In every instance when my Administration sees a responsibility to help people," he said, "we will look first to faith-based institutions, to charities and to community groups that have shown their ability to save and change lives."
Asked if his proposal would violate the constitutional separation of church and state, Mr. Bush said, "I'm told by the legal experts that my initiative will pass constitutional muster. We will send money to fund services. But the money does not go fund the religious programs within the institution."
The question that should be asked about a Federal program, he said, is not who implemented it but "does it work?"
A central part of his plan would permit lower-income taxpayers who do not itemize their deductions -- the great majority of filers -- to deduct their charitable donations. He also proposed bigger tax breaks for corporate giving, limiting the civil liability of businesses that donate equipment or cars to charitable groups and allowing people to make charitable contributions with money from Individual Retirement Accounts without penalty.
Mr. Bush said he would seek changes in laws and regulations so that individuals could direct some of their state taxes "directly to private and religious institutions fighting poverty."
In addition, Mr. Bush proposed Federal grants to ministries and mentoring programs to help the 1.3 million children he said had parents who were in prison. He said he wanted to try InnerChange, a Texas prison program that "teaches inmates to rely on faith to transform their lives," in four Federal prisons to test its effectiveness.
Mr. Bush spoke at a meeting hosted by the Front Porch Alliance, an Indianapolis program that uses church and neighborhood organizations to fight crime and poverty. Church choirs prepared the audience for his address.
In it Mr. Bush promised to "change the laws and regulation that hamper the cooperation of government and private institutions" in order to "allow private and religious groups to compete to provide services in every Federal, state and local social program."
Mr. Bush insisted that his "faith-based" approach would not be sectarian. "We will keep a commitment to pluralism, not discriminating for or against Methodist or Mormons or Muslims, or good people with no faith at all." And he said he would insure there were "secular alternatives" to faith-based programs.
Faith-based organizations can and do receive Federal grants for a variety of social welfare programs.
Melissa T. Skolfield, assistant secretary for public affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services, said that "the welfare reform bill specifically allows faith-based organizations to receive Federal funds to help move people from welfare to work." Moreover, she said, "we've used the bully pulpit" to make the case for even greater involvement by such groups.
Constitutional scholars generally agree that the government may use churches, synagogues and mosques to help administer social-service programs as long as the programs do not promote religious beliefs.
Professor Ira C. Lupu of the George Washington University Law School, an authority on the subject, said the Supreme Court had upheld the use of government funds by religious institutions as part of a social-service program if there was no proselytizing. "You can't, for example, give food to hungry people while transmitting a religious message," he said. "As long as they are acting as social-service agencies and not as religious agencies, it's acceptable."
In 1988, the Supreme Court in Bowen v. Kendrick upheld the Adolescent Family Life Act enacted by Congress to promote chastity. The Court ruled that the law did not violate the Constitution's prohibition against mingling church and state even though it required that some funds be funneled through religious organizations.
Mr. Bush told the audience that his message was not directed only to Washington bureaucrats but also to his own party:
"We must apply our conservative and free-market ideas to the job of helping real human beings, because any ideology, no matter how right in theory, is sterile and empty without that goal."
Mr. Bush said the attitude that governments should only "leave us alone" was a "destructive mindset." Asked at his news conference if that comment meant he was repudiating the approach of a Republican Congress first elected in 1994 with a great promise to reduce Federal programs and regulations, he declined to answer.
Mr. Bush also said, "It is not enough to call for volunteerism," a hallmark of his father's term as President. "Without more support and resources -- both public and private, we are asking them to make bricks without straw."
Mr. Bush said he wanted to work with institutions that shared a belief "in the transforming power of faith, a belief no one is finally a failure or a victim, because everyone is the child of a loving and merciful God -- a God who counts our tears and lifts our heads."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George W. Bush acted out a song with Renee Busby, left, and Petronila Diaz in Indianapolis yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. A12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; WELFARE (US); TAXATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 RELIGION (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CHURCH & STATE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); CHARITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); CHILDREN (61%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (60%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



543 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: China Steps Up Its Drive to Halt Dissident Sect

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 22

 BODY:
China stepped up its offensive against the Buddhist Law movement today, announcing a ban on the organization and unleashing a barrage of charges against its founder that revealed how seriously the Government takes the sect as a challenge to its control.
The Government's ban on the group, known in Chinese as Falun Gong, had been rumored since the police rounded up more than 100 leaders of the sect in several Chinese cities this week. 
 But the ferocity of Beijing's campaign -- aimed at a group of mainly middle-aged people who practice a form of Chinese breathing exercises and meditation -- suggests that it regards Falun Gong as more than a movement of physical and moral uplift. At a time when China's economy is slowing and social unrest is rising, officials here view this amorphous but fast-growing sect as a dangerous political force.
After Beijing handed down its edict this afternoon, it began an extraordinary public-relations assault on the group and its founder, Li Hongzhi, through state-run television and newspapers.
The Ministry of Civil Affairs accused Falun Gong of "inciting and creating disturbances, and jeopardizing social stability." In an editorial scheduled for publication on Friday, the Communist Party newspaper People's Daily said Mr. Li was pursuing a hidden political agenda that posed a "massive threat" to Chinese society.
State media also accused Mr. Li of misleading followers about his birth date, so that he could claim to be a reincarnation of Siddhartha Gautama, the founder of Buddhism, and of accepting payments for supposedly miraculous cures. Falun Gong followers, displaying the reach that has so alarmed the Chinese authorities, immediately posted rebuttals of the charges over the Internet.
Mr. Li, 48, a former grain bureau clerk who is now based in New York, fashioned his sect from an eclectic blend of qigong -- traditional breathing exercises -- as well as elements of Buddhism and Taoism. His followers say they disavow politics and embrace Mr. Li's teachings for their physical and spiritual health.
But Falun Gong deeply unsettled China's rulers when 10,000 of its adherents materialized on April 25, a warm spring Sunday, in front of the compound that houses President Jiang Zemin and other leaders.
The rally, held to demand official recognition of the group, demonstrated that this obscure spiritual sect was in fact a highly organized movement with an international network capable of mobilizing thousands of people and putting them under the noses of China's top leaders without a whisper of warning.
As word of the detentions spread this week, thousands of Falun Gong followers massed in front of government offices in Dalian, Guangzhou and 28 other cities to protest the Government's crackdown, according to members of the group and a Hong Kong human rights organization.
The wall-to-wall coverage in the state-run media of the ban -- which prohibits the public practice of the exercises and meditation as well as the distribution of the group's literature -- underscores that the Government is determined to stamp out Falun Gong.
But the group could prove an elusive quarry for Beijing. It has a large and rapidly growing membership -- estimates run from the Chinese Government's figure of 2 million to the group's number of 100 million in more than 30 countries -- as well as a fluid structure and an appreciation of the power of the Internet to pass information and organize activities.
"I think this is going to make us stronger," said Sophie Xiao, a spokeswoman for Falun Gong in Hong Kong, where the ban does not apply. "People are not simple-minded. Educated people will hear about this group, and check it out."
A former Chinese official said the police in Beijing had released several hundred people who had been detained as they massed near Zhongnanhai on Tuesday and Wednesday.
 On Friday morning, about 200 people gathered in Tiananmen Square and began a sitting protest, the Reuters news service reported. They were arrested and the square was cordoned off.
Chinese officials were clearly concerned about how the ban would be received abroad. Shortly before the announcement, a high-ranking official briefed foreign correspondents here on why the Government felt it necessary to take such draconian action.
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Beijing had moved against Falun Gong because of "the danger it posed to our country and our people" and that "any responsible government would do the same."
He said members of the group had harassed government offices and pro-Beijing news organizations. He said the Government had evidence that Mr. Li had been in Beijing for the three days before the April rally at Zhongnanhai had helped plan it.
In Washington, the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said the United States was disturbed by China's decision to ban Falun Gong, and was urging China to abide by international human rights conventions.
Here as well, the strident tone and sheer volume of the denunciations of Falun Gong baffled some experts in Chinese politics. Why, they asked, would the Government pour so much energy into fighting a group that it says has only 2 million members.
"After all, a few months ago hardly anyone had heard of it, and no one was saying it was a threat to the state," said one political scholar in Beijing, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "I think the party leaders felt personally insulted by the Falun Gong protest. It made them look like fools."
A former government official said today that the unexpected demonstration in April particularly unnerved President Jiang. In briefings with Government officials earlier this week, this person said, a senior leader quoted Mr. Jiang as harshly criticizing Mr. Li and the movement.
Experts said there were plenty of reasons for Beijing to worry about this kind of group. With its mixture of martial arts and mysticism, Falun Gong appeals to people who have felt adrift in the last two decades of economic restructuring and relaxed social controls.
Quasi-religious groups played a profoundly disruptive role in the final decades of the last imperial dynasty. The Taiping Rebellion (1851-63), led by Hong Xiuquan, who claimed to be the younger son of Jesus Christ and strove to replace what he called corrupt Manchu rulers with a "heavenly kingdom," cost millions of lives and devastated much of southern China. At the turn of the century, the Fists of Righteous Harmony, or "Boxers," mixed martial arts and mysticism in their campaign to expel foreigners, which ended with a Western and Japanese expeditionary force occupying Beijing.
And Communist officials are well aware that the Communist Party, in its early years, was an underground organization with ties to other secret societies and that it owed much of its own rise to power to disaffected elements of society.
But now as the Communist Government approaches the 50th anniversary of its rule, on Oct. 1, China's economic engine is sputtering. With Beijing embarking on an ambitious campaign to overhaul its state sector -- one that has already resulted in huge layoffs -- the Government is bracing itself for widespread unrest.
Signs that the Government may feel vulnerable abounded in the flood of official denunciations today. In a 70-minute documentary that has been rerun almost nonstop today on state television, Falun Gong was portrayed as a pernicious cult that leads members to mental instability, madness and even murder.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese taking part in an exercise and meditation session of the Falun Gong spiritual movement in the city of Guangzhou yesterday morning, just hours before the Government in Beijing banned the movement. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); LIAONING, CHINA (59%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (74%); 

COMPANY: FALUN GONG (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: FALUN GONG (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); LIAONING, CHINA (59%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICS (88%); MEDITATION (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (75%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (55%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: LI HONGZHI (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



544 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: BREAK IN LOGJAM ON ALBANY BUDGET

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 22

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders removed the last major obstacle to a new state budget today, reaching agreement on a plan to spend more than $700 million on school repairs, new housing for the mentally ill, highway projects and a smattering of tax cuts.
The deal ends a bitter and protracted stalemate and clears the way for the adoption of a new $73 billion budget that rejects many of the cuts Mr. Pataki had sought in education and health care. It keeps $1.8 billion in a reserve fund to hedge against a downturn in the economy and to make up for revenue lost to future tax cuts. Mr. Pataki had insisted on the reserve fund as part of any final budget agreement. 
 The budget was due on April 1, but for the 15th straight year, state leaders failed to meet that deadline. The record for a state budget delay came in 1997, when it was 122 days past the deadline. As of Friday, the budget is 114 days overdue. The Legislature is expected to begin the final work next week, according to aides to Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders.
"This is a very happy occasion," Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader of the Senate, said this morning during a hearing with members of both houses of the Legislature. "We are making progress."
The deal reached today by Mr. Pataki, Mr. Bruno and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, resolves the most difficult issues that had held up a final budget agreement. But aides to Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders cautioned that some details still had to be worked out before the final budget is submitted for the approval of rank-and-file members. The process could also be slowed by the arduous task of translating the deal into the arcane and complex language of legislation, something that often leads to blow-ups that can derail a deal, if only momentarily.
The additional spending that the leaders agreed on today, totaling $710 million, is not expected to have a significant impact on this year's final budget, largely because it is based on borrowing and tax cuts that will take effect in future budget years, legislative aides said.
The plan sets aside $250 million to pay for new tax cuts, most of them having been sought by Mr. Pataki and his Republican allies in the Senate. The majority of those tax cuts, about $150 million, would apply to banks and insurance companies, legislative aides in both parties said. The remaining $100 million in tax cuts is still being negotiated.
Under the agreement, $145 million would be spent to repair schools; $50 million to build housing for the mentally ill; $15 million to add new publicly financed day care slots for low-income families, and $15 million to provide affordable housing for the poor. Those proposals are supported, for the most part, by Democrats.
The deal also includes about $235 million to pay for programs championed by the Republican majority in the Senate: $160 million for highway projects, mostly outside New York City, and $75 million for a job development plan to help beleaguered upstate communities.
"Barring any unforeseen problems, we expect the budget to be resolved relatively soon," said Zenia Mucha, a spokeswoman for the Governor. "Hopefully, the entire budget will be done within the next 10 days."
The negotiations over this year's budget were thwarted by the deep level of mistrust that has grown between Mr. Pataki and Mr. Silver. Last year, both houses of the Legislature passed a spending plan that provided large election-year increases to all sorts of constituencies. But Mr. Pataki vetoed $1.6 billion in programs, mostly those supported by Mr. Silver and other Democrats.
Mr. Silver sought to prevent that from happening again this year, but had no assurances until last week, when Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders agreed on the broad outlines of a $73 billion plan.
The deal spends about $1.1 billion more than Mr. Pataki had proposed in January but allows the Governor to achieve one of his main objectives in the budget: saving $1.8 billion from the budget surplus that accumulated in the fiscal year that ended March 31. Mr. Pataki wanted the savings to pay for tax cuts that have been enacted into law but take effect in future years.
But Mr. Pataki's Democratic rivals have some things to cheer about in the final budget deal.
Democrats saved one of their most cherished programs: one that pays for prekindergarten classes, all-day kindergarten and smaller class sizes in the early grades. Mr. Pataki had proposed eliminating the program and replacing it with a smaller block grant that school districts could use as they wanted.
But the future of the program is unclear, because Mr. Pataki has refused to make it a permanent program, as Democrats have demanded. The budget will also increase overall aid to school districts by $910 million, an 8 percent increase over last year. That is the largest year-to-year increase ever for education.
As it now stands, the budget deal also calls for restoring $134 million to the program that provides tuition assistance for low-income college students.
Mr. Pataki had proposed eliminating that much from the program, known as the Tuition Assistance Program, which provides money to eligible full-time students who attend any private or public college in the state.
Word of today's deal came as members of the Legislature began winding up a series of budget conference committees that began on Monday. The committees were convened to allow rank-and-file lawmakers to determine in public how to spend the additional $1.1 billion that Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders agreed to add to the Governor's original proposal.
The hearings were instituted last year in an effort to break with the much-maligned practice in which the Governor and legislative leaders hammered out budget deals behind closed doors without the benefit of public hearings.
But as with much of the budget this year, the agreement reached today was hammered out in secret negotiations among Mr. Pataki, Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno, making the conference committees largely irrelevant. The committees are scheduled to end their work on Friday morning.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph L. Bruno, left, the Republican majority leader of the State Senate, yesterday with the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat. (Associated Press)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS BUDGETS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); FAMILY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); INSURANCE (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER); BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN) EDDIE GEORGE (75%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



545 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Whitman Signs Bill On State-Aid Increases

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman signed a bill into law yesterday guaranteeing yearly increases in state aid to local municipalities based on the rate of inflation. 
 Under the law, state aid to local governments will automatically increase each year to offset inflation in the cost of providing municipal services, according to a statement from the Governor's office. The increases will cost the state about $11.5 million in the current fiscal year, which has a total budget of $19.5 billion. But they could cost as much as much $77 million within three years, the Governor's office said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOCAL GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INFLATION (88%); TRENDS (88%); BUDGETS (87%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



546 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 1;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: China Steps Up Its Drive to Halt Dissident Sect

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 22

 BODY:
China stepped up its offensive against the Buddhist Law movement today, announcing a ban on the organization and unleashing a barrage of charges against its founder that revealed how seriously the Government takes the sect as a challenge to its control.
The Government's ban on the group, known in Chinese as Falun Gong, had been rumored since the police rounded up more than 100 leaders of the sect in several Chinese cities this week. 
 But the ferocity of Beijing's campaign -- aimed at a group of mainly middle-aged people who practice a form of Chinese breathing exercises and meditation -- suggests that it regards Falun Gong as more than a movement of physical and moral uplift. At a time when China's economy is slowing and social unrest is rising, officials here view this amorphous but fast-growing sect as a dangerous political force.
After Beijing handed down its edict this afternoon, it began an extraordinary public-relations assault on the group and its founder, Li Hongzhi, through state-run television and newspapers.
The Ministry of Civil Affairs accused Falun Gong of "inciting and creating disturbances, and jeopardizing social stability." In an editorial scheduled for publication on Friday, the Communist Party newspaper People's Daily said Mr. Li was pursuing a hidden political agenda that posed a "massive threat" to Chinese society.
State media also accused Mr. Li of misleading followers about his birth date, so that he could claim to be a reincarnation of Siddhartha Gautama, the founder of Buddhism, and of accepting payments for supposedly miraculous cures. Falun Gong followers, displaying the reach that has so alarmed the Chinese authorities, immediately posted rebuttals of the charges over the Internet.
Mr. Li, 48, a former grain bureau clerk who is now based in New York, fashioned his sect from an eclectic blend of qigong -- traditional breathing exercises -- as well as elements of Buddhism and Taoism. His followers say they disavow politics and embrace Mr. Li's teachings for their physical and spiritual health.
But Falun Gong deeply unsettled China's rulers when 10,000 of its adherents materialized on April 25, a warm spring Sunday, in front of the compound that houses President Jiang Zemin and other leaders.
The rally, held to demand official recognition of the group, demonstrated that this obscure spiritual sect was in fact a highly organized movement with an international network capable of mobilizing thousands of people and putting them under the noses of China's top leaders without a whisper of warning.
As word of the detentions spread this week, thousands of Falun Gong followers massed in front of government offices in Dalian, Guangzhou and 28 other cities to protest the Government's crackdown, according to members of the group and a Hong Kong human rights organization.
The wall-to-wall coverage in the state-run media of the ban -- which prohibits the public practice of the exercises and meditation as well as the distribution of the group's literature -- underscores that the Government is determined to stamp out Falun Gong.
But the group could prove an elusive quarry for Beijing. It has a large and rapidly growing membership -- estimates run from the Chinese Government's figure of 2 million to the group's number of 100 million in more than 30 countries -- as well as a fluid structure and an appreciation of the power of the Internet to pass information and organize activities.
"I think this is going to make us stronger," said Sophie Xiao, a spokeswoman for Falun Gong in Hong Kong, where the ban does not apply. "People are not simple-minded. Educated people will hear about this group, and check it out."
A former Chinese official said the police in Beijing had released several hundred people who had been detained as they massed near Zhongnanhai on Tuesday and Wednesday.
 On Friday morning, about 200 people gathered in Tiananmen Square and began a sitting protest, the Reuters news service reported. They were arrested and the square was cordoned off.
Chinese officials were clearly concerned about how the ban would be received abroad. Shortly before the announcement, a high-ranking official briefed foreign correspondents here on why the Government felt it necessary to take such draconian action.
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Beijing had moved against Falun Gong because of "the danger it posed to our country and our people" and that "any responsible government would do the same."
He said members of the group had harassed government offices and pro-Beijing news organizations. He said the Government had evidence that Mr. Li had been in Beijing for the three days before the April rally at Zhongnanhai had helped plan it.
In Washington, the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said the United States was disturbed by China's decision to ban Falun Gong, and was urging China to abide by international human rights conventions.
Here as well, the strident tone and sheer volume of the denunciations of Falun Gong baffled some experts in Chinese politics. Why, they asked, would the Government pour so much energy into fighting a group that it says has only 2 million members.
"After all, a few months ago hardly anyone had heard of it, and no one was saying it was a threat to the state," said one political scholar in Beijing, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "I think the party leaders felt personally insulted by the Falun Gong protest. It made them look like fools."
A former government official said today that the unexpected demonstration in April particularly unnerved President Jiang. In briefings with Government officials earlier this week, this person said, a senior leader quoted Mr. Jiang as harshly criticizing Mr. Li and the movement.
Experts said there were plenty of reasons for Beijing to worry about this kind of group. With its mixture of martial arts and mysticism, Falun Gong appeals to people who have felt adrift in the last two decades of economic restructuring and relaxed social controls.
Quasi-religious groups played a profoundly disruptive role in the final decades of the last imperial dynasty. The Taiping Rebellion (1851-63), led by Hong Xiuquan, who claimed to be the younger son of Jesus Christ and strove to replace what he called corrupt Manchu rulers with a "heavenly kingdom," cost millions of lives and devastated much of southern China. At the turn of the century, the Fists of Righteous Harmony, or "Boxers," mixed martial arts and mysticism in their campaign to expel foreigners, which ended with a Western and Japanese expeditionary force occupying Beijing.
And Communist officials are well aware that the Communist Party, in its early years, was an underground organization with ties to other secret societies and that it owed much of its own rise to power to disaffected elements of society.
But now as the Communist Government approaches the 50th anniversary of its rule, on Oct. 1, China's economic engine is sputtering. With Beijing embarking on an ambitious campaign to overhaul its state sector -- one that has already resulted in huge layoffs -- the Government is bracing itself for widespread unrest.
Signs that the Government may feel vulnerable abounded in the flood of official denunciations today. In a 70-minute documentary that has been rerun almost nonstop today on state television, Falun Gong was portrayed as a pernicious cult that leads members to mental instability, madness and even murder.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about China's crackdown on a spiritual movement referred incorrectly to the leader of the 19th-century Taiping Rebellion, Hong Xiuquan. He said he was Jesus' brother, not son.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese taking part in an exercise and meditation session of the Falun Gong spiritual movement in the city of Guangzhou yesterday morning, just hours before the Government in Beijing banned the movement. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); LIAONING, CHINA (59%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (74%); 

COMPANY: FALUN GONG (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: FALUN GONG (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); LIAONING, CHINA (59%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICS (88%); MEDITATION (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (75%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (55%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: LI HONGZHI (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999



547 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTIONS;
Even for Death's Escapees, the Myth Says, There Are Rules

BYLINE: By Edward Rothstein 

 BODY:
Resurrection from the dead may be the most universal of mythic ideas: a devoted savior descends to the netherworld to restore a loved one to life. But there is always a price to be paid: natural law is rarely overturned without penalty and pain. Persephone must return to Hades. Lot's wife, insufficiently awed by her rescue from her death-ridden home, glances back and turns into a pillar of evaporated tears. And the Christian story of resurrection leaves the final transformation incomplete, pending the spiritual perfection of mankind.
This myth is also at the heart of two 400-year-old operas. In the Chinese opera "The Peony Pavilion," which is being performed in complete 19-hour form as part of Lincoln Center Festival '99 (its last marathon performance is this weekend), the slightly cocky young scholar Liu Mengmei brings his beloved back to life. And in Monteverdi's "Orfeo," which was given an exquisite performance last month in a production by Trisha Brown at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Orpheus, whose playing of the lyre could wring tears from stones, uses his music to rescue his Eurydice from Hades. 
 This operatic coincidence is unusually resonant. Both works were written around the same time ("Peony" in 1598, "L'Orfeo" in 1607). Both became models for their respective styles of music drama. And both, in their resurrection myths, invoke the dreamy powers of art while alluding to its dangers.
Consider first "Peony," which, when seen in full, has the force of a revelation. However strange the initial impression is on Western eyes or ears -- the formal hand gestures, the eye movements, the sweeping, sighing melismas, the percussive punctuation -- the opera is a grand picaresque comedy. Liu's rescue of his beloved from the Underworld is more earthy than heroic: he has to shovel dirt out of the grave, worry about foul smells and flee with his newly disinterred wife as a suspected grave robber. It is as if the 17th-century author, Tang Xianzu, were winking slightly at the very idea of resurrection. Liu has more to worry about from earthly authorities who would behead him for plundering tombs than from any supernal force.
And how pompous those earthly authorities and their minions are! Liu never fails to boast of his scholarly superiority ("I am stuffed full of knowledge"); his beloved, Du Liniang, pities the mirror that can capture only part of her beauty; the Prefect self-importantly quotes ancient poetry to prove his points. There is constant deflation of pretense. Even images of natural beauty -- so central to the work's effects -- are turned into bawdy allusions. It is as if Shakespeare's gravediggers had been set free in the Ming dynasty.
This seems extraordinarily mischievous given that "Peony" is a "kunqu" opera -- an elite, learned genre -- with a text peppered with literary citations. What is also surprising is that the penalty we expect for Liu's violation of natural law never comes. The work seems to proclaim that anything is possible if one dreams well enough and is willing to challenge convention.
But the opera is also so subtle that no sooner is this impulse celebrated than it is resisted. Everything is pomposity? Not quite. Everything is possible? Barely. Du's resurrection always remains somewhat creepy; her father never fully accepts her return to life. In addition, the ritualistic performance style keeps circumscribing desire in melancholic ceremony. The director, Chen Shi-Zheng, uses a variety of popular and vernacular ideas in his staging -- very little authentic kunqu material survives -- but he retains a controlled, stylistic foundation that keeps the mischief in check. The impression is not of unbounded freedom but of bounded accommodation. Art may break boundaries but it also must answer to them.
Monteverdi may have had something similar in mind. In the myth, Orpheus has such mastery over his art that he can use it to suspend natural law and descend into Hades. But Monteverdi's attitude toward Orpheus' musical powers is more ambiguous. The composer wrote this opera at a moment of heated debate in Italy about the nature of music: should music or text take priority? Monteverdi believed that music had already gone too far in eclipsing its texts. It had become overly introverted, intricate, indulgent. In creating one of the first modern operas based on his understanding of classical ideals, Monteverdi wanted music to serve the text, not dominate it. It would have to acknowledge an external authority.
But this is just what Orpheus is unable to do. He treats music as a law unto itself, answerable to no constraints. He can't even control his own impulses -- he ultimately glances back at Eurydice, violating a strict edict, and so condemns her to eternal death. Nor is Orpheus the master musician he seems. He succeeds in passing into Hades not by seducing the ferryman, Charon, with his music, but by inadvertently putting him to sleep. And while Orpheus credits his music with winning over the Lord of the Underworld, Persephone's plea is what makes the difference. Orpheus may sing the praises of his own song, but he does not take its proper measure; he prefers elaborate effects to simple communication. In both his actions and his style, Orpheus acknowledges no external authority; he insists on his absolute freedom, and ends up losing it.
So in the end, "L'Orfeo" is not a celebration of music's seductive powers to undo death and rescue love, but an exploration of music's limits. This is the opera's tragedy: not that Orpheus's powers fail, but that, in their self-absorbed form, they cannot possibly succeed. "Peony" ultimately sides with Monteverdi as well. Both operas suggest that in art, as in death, there is no escape from rules and limits. But the struggle against them ends up becoming one of the great recurring myths of Western opera.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The universal resurrection story is central to the 400-year-old "Peony Pavilion" at Lincoln Center. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PEONY PAVILION, THE (OPERA)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FORM AS (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; LINCOLN CENTER FESTIVAL '99 OPERA (90%); WRITERS (76%); FESTIVALS (74%); DEFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POETRY (65%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD LIU MENGMEI (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



548 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Happiness? It May Be Very Near;
When the Heart Sings, Part of the Cortex Gets Busy

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
The secret to happiness, it turns out, may not be wealth or power. Or love or success or faithful friendship. Or Ray Charles crooning "Georgia on My Mind" or even chocolate mousse.
Finding happiness may mean going no further than your very own forehead -- the left prefrontal cortex of your brain, to be exact. The more the sparks fly from this sliver of gray matter, the more electrical impulses it generates, the happier you are. 
 That is the conclusion of Richard J. Davidson, a professor of psychology and psychiatry at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, and others who have examined adults, children, infants, even Rhesus monkeys. Over the last several years, they have tested perky, enthusiastic people and pessimistic, morose ones. The results are always the same. People blessed with effervescent left prefrontal cortices are much more likely to be smiling.
Dr. Davidson is part of a small band of pioneers who have set out over the last decade to discover what many philosophers but few scientific researchers have bothered to ask: What is it, exactly, that makes us happy?
They are marshaling all the most sophisticated scientific techniques: searching for a genetic basis for happiness, brain imaging to pinpoint the spot on the brain where happiness resides, and in-the-field surveys to try to understand which activities or stimuli make people more or less happy. And they are interested in a range of possible applications. How does happiness affect physiological symptoms like stress and heart disease? Can drugs be used effectively to make unhappy people happy? Are our brains coded from birth for a certain level of happiness, or can they be altered by experiences when we are young, or even as adults?
This is revolutionary stuff, not only for biologists but also for psychologists, who have concentrated much of this century on pathology, obsession, melancholy and angst.
"Look in a psychology textbook," said Daniel Kahneman, a professor of psychology and public affairs at Princeton University and another happiness sleuth. "There are a lot of pages devoted to anxiety and depression. Happiness might not even be there."
Norbert Schwarz, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, said it had historically been tough to get grants to study what tickles people's fancy.
"When you're deciding whether to fund research," Dr. Schwarz said, "it seems much more important to say you want to help people not to get depressed than to say you want to help people enjoy their dinner more."
But these days, happiness research is on the upswing. Chock it up to the Don't Sweat the Small Stuff movement, experts say, or to the emphasis on physical health and "wellness" that has people smoking less and Stairmastering more. But even the current president of the American Psychological Association, Martin E. P. Seligman, has been making speeches over the past year urging researchers to study a new "positive" psychology.
Happiness, it goes without saying, is highly subjective and some researchers are trying to better define and measure this squishy subject.
Edward F. Diener, a University of Illinois psychologist who conducts happiness research, said in an interview: "We're trying not to just ask people how happy they are in general, but to document it at specific points. Happiness is how frequently you're happy, not how intensely you're happy. Having some peaks in there is nice -- it's certainly not bad -- but if you have a peak, it could be because you're unhappy and then you had something happen to make you superhappy. Then you have to go back to the normal thing."
Michael Argyle, a psychologist at Oxford University, has found some common threads. Money, he says, makes little difference to happiness, except for people who are very poor. People on the job are happiest when they have good relationships with co-workers and when part of their day is spent "wasting time, fooling around, and sharing gossip and jokes," he said. And for some reason, watching soap operas on television makes people happy ("I think they've got imaginary friends there," he said.)
Increasingly, though, most happiness researchers are convinced that a healthy part of happiness is physiological and genetic.
Tests on twins have found that "identical twins separated from birth are more similar in how happy they are than fraternal twins who grew up together," Dr. Diener said.
The research of Dr. Davidson and others provides some of the most compelling evidence yet.
People who describe themselves as optimistic, engaged, "the kind of people who jump out of bed in the morning and are ready to tackle the world," as he put it, have consistently higher levels of left prefrontal lobe activity. Physiologically, they also have "higher levels of natural antibody activity -- antigens against everything from colds and flu to cancers."
By contrast, people who are depressed have greater activity in their right prefrontal lobe. And children with more active right prefrontal lobes show "excessive wariness in response to unfamiliar situations," Dr. Davidson said.
To see whether anticipation of something good or bad makes a difference, Dr. Davidson tested heavy smokers who were deprived of cigarettes for a day and then shown a lighted cigarette and told they would be able to smoke in two minutes. During those two minutes, the smokers showed a strong increase in left prefrontal lobe activity.
On the other hand, a group of people with intense fear of making public speeches were told they would be required to do just that. Their right prefrontal lobes went ballistic as they got closer to making the speech.
Naturally, drug companies have been banging on Dr. Davidson's door. He says that some studies have found that antidepression drugs increase left prefrontal cortex activity, although there is no research yet on how long that effect lasts.
Yet drawing the line between the physical and the psychological is not easy. What is cause and what is effect? Are people with more prefrontal cortex activity happier or do happier people have more prefrontal cortex activity?
Dr. Davidson, for example, is studying whether experiences -- meditation, for example -- can produce changes in prefrontal brain activity "to more definitively answer the question on nature versus nurture," he said. "Data suggest there's a lot of plasticity that appears to be present up until the time of puberty. But brain function might be malleable even in adults."
He assisted in a recent study conducted with Jon Kabat-Zinn, a meditation expert at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center in Worcester, in which stressed executives of a high-powered biotechnology company were given an eight-week course in meditation -- one three-hour class a week and an assignment to practice 45 minutes a day. The results are not yet in, Dr. Davidson said.
With the blessing of the Dalai Lama, Dr. Davidson is also studying Buddhist monks, both in Tibet and Wisconsin, to see whether their lives of meditation show up on their prefrontal lobes. "To get these people to do the research is very difficult," he added. "They tell us if we really want to learn about meditation they could give us instruction, and if we like it we can teach it to other people."
Whatever this research will ultimately show, happiness is clearly more than the sum of brain circuits. Researchers have noticed, for example, that people's responses to questions about happiness change depending on the context in which they are asked. If asked about their lives on a sunny day, people are likely to express more contentment than on a rainy day.
Dr. Schwarz, a co-editor of "Well-Being: Foundations of Hedonic Psychology," published this month by the Russell Sage Foundation, has conducted an experiment in which some people who used a University of Michigan copying machine found a dime that researchers planted, while others were not given a dime to find.
After using the copier, people were asked how happy they were about life, and those who found a dime were consistently more upbeat about "their lives as a whole, the economy, that kind of thing," Dr. Schwarz said. "We've found that a dime can make you happy for about 20 minutes. Then your mood wears off."
People tested in a study at the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana are given Palm Pilot handheld computers, which beep randomly several times in a day. After each beep, subjects fill out a questionnaire rating their happiness at that moment on a scale of one to seven. They are also asked what they were doing when they were beeped.
Dr. Kahneman, another co-editor of the "Well-Being" book, said research on moment-to-moment happiness could help scientists figure out all sorts of things. "What is the mood of people when they ride in a Washington subway versus a New York subway?" he asked, making a comparison between a subway that's new, clean and punctual and one that often is not. "What is the effect on mood of having trees, of looking at water?"
Last year, Dr. Kahneman and a colleague published a paper on whether people are happier in California or the Midwest. "We found not a particle of difference," he said. "But everyone in California and the Midwest thinks that people are happier in California."
Dr. Kahneman concluded that people asked about happiness often focus on one particular point, like the climate in California. But when it comes right down to it, Dr. Kahneman said, "climate is just not very important to well-being."
There do appear to be cultural differences across countries though.
Hamlet, it seems, was the rarest of creatures: an unhappy Dane. Surveys have found that "Danes appear to be frightfully happy," said Mr. Argyle, citing a study in which 65 percent of the Danes interviewed said they were satisfied with life. By contrast, "Italians and French seem miserable," he said, with only 10 percent giving life a thumb's up.
Americans tend to be a pretty positive bunch, while Asians are less sanguine.
"People in Japan report being less happy -- probably because they focus on the negative," said Dr. Diener, referring to several cross-cultural surveys that have been done. "They think about their own shortcomings. Americans have bad points, but they don't tend to look at them too much."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Who can resist puppies? Above, a test subject looks at an image in a happiness study by Richard J. Davidson at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. Left, a CAT scan shows the left frontal lobe of the brain, an area that correlates with subjects' reports of happy feelings. (Photographs by Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. B7); Richard J. Davidson, who is trying to find out what happiness is. (Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; BRAIN; HAPPINESS; RESEARCH BRAIN (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); PSYCHIATRY (75%); DEPRESSION (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); BIOLOGY (72%); HEART DISEASE (69%); PRIMATES (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM; DAVIDSON, RICHARD J (PROF) RICHARD J DAVIDSON (65%); EDWARD F DIENER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



549 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN RISES. The dollar fell as traders scooped up the Japanese currency, which has become more attractive on a brightening outlook for the Japanese economy. The dollar closed at 116.55 yen, down from 116.70 on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Feb. 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); JAPANESE YEN (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



550 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Are We Ready to Lose the Next Air War?

BYLINE: By F. Whitten Peters; F. Whitten Peters is Acting Secretary of the Air Force.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
With little debate and without a hearing, the full House voted this week to effectively kill the F-22 Raptor aircraft, the linchpin of the Air Force's modernization program. Fortunately, the final word is not in, and the F-22 still has strong support in Congress and from Defense Secretary William Cohen and President Clinton.
Killing the F-22 is simply not acceptable. It is wrong for national security. It is bad economics. And it would put American service members at unnecessary and unacceptable risk. 
 Operation Allied Force in the skies over Kosovo illustrated that air superiority is the foundation for victory on land, at sea and in the air. As we rapidly deploy decisive combat forces from the United States to the scene of hostilities, fighter jets will be the first to arrive. They will help us deter an adversary from attacking and, if deterrence fails, to fight on the ground and in the air, and win. The F-22 would guarantee success in these vital missions for decades to come.
Some critics of the F-22 contend that our country's relatively easy victories in the last 10 years prove that we don't need a new fighter. They insist that our air power is already far superior to that of any potential enemy.
Today, though, at least six other aircraft -- the Russian MIG-29, SU-27 and SU-35, the French Mirage 2000 and Rafael and the European Consortium's Eurofighter -- threaten to surpass the aging F-15, our current top-of-the-line air-to-air fighter.
These aircraft are marketed aggressively around the world to our allies and potential adversaries. Without the F-22, the United States runs the risk of allowing our air superiority to atrophy to the point that an adversary could inflict great harm on our previously superior Air Force.
Already many nations, among them Iran, Iraq and North Korea, are constructing sophisticated air defenses built around surface-to-air missile systems like the Russian SA-10, SA-12 and SA-20. All these missile systems are available on the market today. Our current aircraft, like the F-15 and F-16, lack the F-22's stealth and supercruise abilities and will be unable to evade or destroy these air defenses without risking heavy losses.
Other weapons that might be used against these air defenses are also extremely expensive. The Air Force's conventional air-launched cruise missile and the Navy's Tomahawk cruise missile cost $1.4 million each. Even with these weapons, we would still need an upgraded F-15, which could cost some $40 billion -- essentially the same as the cost of completing the F-22 program, but the F-15 would have only one-third of the ability.
Using a combination of cruise missiles and upgraded F-15's does not, therefore, reflect the best stewardship of taxpayer dollars. More important, our young men and women would be at greater risk in future wars.
Not only does the F-22 meet the military threats on the horizon, it is also affordable as a part of a well-conceived modernization strategy the Air Force has used over the last three decades. By consistently investing about 10 to 12 percent of our total budget on new aircraft, we have been able to upgrade all our aircraft over a period of years.
In the 1970's, we bought new fighters. In the 1980's, we added new bombers. During the 1990's, we fielded the C-17, our newest transport jet. Now, our attention returns to the fighter force. The Congressional Budget Office has applauded this cyclical strategy; we have maintained the world's best air force while avoiding overlaps in aircraft purchases.
No question, the F-22 is expensive, but it is worth every penny. Each Raptor will cost on average about $84 million to produce. The $200 million price tag discussed recently is a figure that charges all past F-22 program costs -- including research and development, testing, procurement and military construction -- to the planned purchase of 339 aircraft.
This is an unfair comparison because the $23 billion we've already spent on the F-22 would be lost if the program were canceled. The key question is, What will it cost from today forward?
At peak production, the Air Force would spend about 6 percent of our budget on the F-22. This is about the same percentage of our budget that went toward developing and buying the F-15 nearly 30 years ago. This equates to less than 2 percent of America's national security budget. Our cost containment on the F-22 is a success story; it is within Congressionally mandated caps for both development and production.
The threat is real, and the F-22 program is well within our budget. The air superiority provided by the Raptor would insure victory in future battles and preserve the lives of countless Americans soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines. The F-22 is an investment America cannot pass up. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; F-22; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); AIRLINES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); 

PERSON: PETERS, F WHITTEN (ACTING SEC) BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



551 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: A Worthy Tax Credit for New York

 BODY:
The Albany budget process consists of a long stalemate followed by the hasty negotiation of a deal between the Governor, Senate majority leader and Speaker of the Assembly. This year's scramble is running true to form, leaving the possibility that a valuable tax break for low-income workers -- some of whom are former welfare recipients -- might fall by the wayside.
The bill would let workers who earn less than $30,000 keep more of their earnings, and it would give a cash refund to working families making less than $14,000, who pay no income tax at all. The payment, known as an earned income tax credit, has proved successful at the Federal level. The state proposal would be financed by savings that have resulted from the shrinkage of welfare rolls. 
 This is made possible by the Federal welfare reform act, which converted matching payments to the state into a block grant that has kept level since 1997. The decline in welfare rolls means that $500 million in Federal matching funds has not been spent, a sum expected to rise to $1.4 billion in a year. The Government stipulates that surpluses be spent only to help the poor through day care, drug assistance or other programs designed to help them hold down jobs. But at least a dozen states have decided to bolster low-income wage earners by enacting the tax credit into law.
New York State has been slow to spend its surplus, in part because of a desire to save in case there is a recession and the welfare rolls expand again. But using as much money as possible for a tax credit will create more of an incentive for people to get off welfare -- and make it easier for the state to meet Federal targets, which require the rolls to grow smaller with each passing year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (84%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (84%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; TAX CREDITS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); FAMILY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



552 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Summer Gas Prices Rise in U.S., Continuing Trend

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Gasoline prices across the country have risen moderately in the summer driving season, continuing an upward trend that began earlier in the year as oil-producing nations cut back supplies.
Further increases may be in store, those who follow the industry said. 
 "Prices at the pump could go up as much as 10 cents a gallon," said Frederick P. Leuffer, an oil analyst with Bear, Stearns.
Retail prices rose by 2.6 cents last week to a national average of $1.17 a gallon for regular, the highest level since November 1997, according to an Energy Department survey of 800 gasoline stations. Gasoline prices have risen 33 percent since February, when they reached a low for the year of 87.8 cents a gallon. On an inflation-adjusted basis, that was the lowest price for gas since the 1920's.
Prices in California have risen even higher, to an average of $1.46 a gallon for regular.
They jumped by 8.2 cents last week after a July 9 explosion at a Chevron Corporation refinery near Oakland. Prices were highest in the northern part of the state where a series of refinery problems have occurred.
Premium gasoline is selling for close to $2 a gallon at some Northern California stations.
With higher prices, refiners like the Amerada Hess Corporation have sent extra supplies of gasoline in tankers, which could ease the upward spiral. Spot prices in the futures market have already fallen this week for California gasoline. Retail prices have been volatile all year, approaching an average of $1.60 in the spring, before falling, and then rising again in recent weeks.
To help ease the shortages, the California Air Resources Board last week granted Chevron a temporary variance to allow the company to sell up to 147 million gallons of higher-sulphur gasoline that does not meet the state's air-quality standards. In the past, the regulations have led to prices that have generally been about 10 cents a gallon higher than in the rest of the nation.
Supplies have also been tight because demand has been higher than last year because of the strong economy, with many people driving sport utility vehicles that have lower gas mileage. In California, gasoline consumption has been running about 2 percent above last year's levels. At this point, however, the rising cost of crude oil appears to be the primary reason refiners have raised gasoline prices.
"Crude oil prices turned out to be a lot higher than anybody thought they were going to be," said John H. Lichtblau, the chairman of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an oil industry research group.
Mr. Leuffer, the analyst for Bear, Stearns, predicts that crude oil prices could go as high as $27 a barrel. The price was only $11 a barrel for the benchmark West Texas Intermediate just four months ago.
Supply cutbacks agreed to in March by the OPEC nations and other non-OPEC producers like Mexico are the main factor behind rising crude oil prices.
Major oil producers agreed to reduce production by about 1.72 million barrels, or 8 percent. The compliance rate among OPEC producers has been about 90 percent, according to Bear, Stearns, a higher figure than had been expected.
The cutbacks came at a time when demand had also been more robust than had been forecast.
The International Energy Agency, which had forecast in May that world demand for crude oil would rise by 1.5 percent, recently increased that estimate to 2 percent because of signs of recovery in some of the Asian economies like Japan's.
This has brought down inventories of crude oil throughout the world. Oil companies have cut back on drilling and exploration, which has led to much slower development of new supplies.
Mr. Leuffer, for example, projects that non-OPEC production will be down by about 400,000 barrels a day and that most oil companies will not be rushing to increase spending on exploration.
"It's not good news for the consumer," he said.
Michael E. Lattif, the president of Gateway, a small auto parts company, has watched the price of regular gasoline surge from about $1.19 a gallon to $1.27 this week at some stations in Danbury, Conn. Mr. Lattif drives a Ford Explorer, a sport utility vehicle, and his company has 16 delivery vans.
He has decided to switch his firm's fuel purchases to gas stations with lower prices at the pump, rather than sticking with a company that offered refunds when gasoline purchases reached certain levels. At current prices, he calculates the change could save as much as $2,000 a year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Falling Supply and Rising Prices"
Soaring oil prices caused by supply cutbacks, and a strong demand by motorists has caused the retail price of regular gasoline to rise. Graphs plots near month contracts for crude oil, daily closes and average price of regular gasoline, weekly closes, Since January. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Energy Information Administration.)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (83%); HES (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) CHEVRON CORP (83%); HESS CORP (67%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); TRENDS (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); GAS STATIONS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); FUTURES (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CONSUMPTION (69%); AIR QUALITY (68%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS FREDERICK P LEUFFER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



553 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Cashing In on Security Worries;
Bad Times Are Good Times for Car Armorers in Brazil

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, July 23

 BODY:
One morning in March, two gunmen unleashed a point-blank barrage at the driver of a sedan carrying the three school-age children of Jorge Paulo Lemann, one of Brazil's wealthiest men. The car's glass did not shatter.
The car was armored, so just one of the 20 bullets fired in the kidnapping attempt punctured the driver's window, grazing his right arm. He sped to safety, weaving through the quiet, tree-lined streets of the exclusive Jardim Europa neighborhood. 
 Mr. Lemann, a former banker who is now an investor in Latin America's largest brewery, declined to comment on the incident. Like many other wealthy individuals in Brazil, where publicity is linked to the fear of kidnapping, he shuns the media.
But the company that armored his car, the O'Gara-Hess & Eisenhardt Armoring Company, which is based in Fairfield, Ohio, and has various operations around the world, is basking in the media coverage. O'Gara's sales of armoring for cars at its Sao Paulo office tripled after the incident, to 90 vehicles a month from 30. And business is also booming at the 20 or so other car-armoring companies here.
"We prosper when times are bad," said Adilson Parrella, president of O'Gara's Brazilian subsidiary.
While Brazil's elite remains relatively well off in a stagnant economy, large swaths of society are struggling. And perhaps no trend better illustrates the strain placed on Brazilian society by a skewed income gap than the recent surge in car armoring. This is especially true in urban centers like Sao Paulo, where unemployment is at a record high.
With the gross domestic product expected to fall by 1 percent this year, car sales as a whole are declining. According to the National Association of Car Manufacturers, sales fell nearly 20 percent in June from June 1998. The main reason for the slump is the high interest rates the Government is using to control inflation and attract foreign capital.
Those same rates, hovering above 20 percent, have helped provide a shield against the recession for wealthy Brazilians who invest in the Government's high-yielding bonds. Combined with impressive returns on the Brazilian stock market, most investors here have done reasonably well since the currency, the real, was devalued in January.
Representatives from car-armoring companies say the market for such vehicles is expected to rise to $70 million this year, a 60 percent increase from 1998. O'Gara, a unit of the Kroll O'Gara Company, is the market leader, vying for customers with domestic competitors like Inbrafiltro Industria e Comercio.
"More than half the cars parked outside the finest restaurants of this city are armored," said Marcelo Silva, the sales manager at Inbrafiltro's armoring division.
Inbrafiltro, which uses Brazilian-made bullet-resistant glass, charges about 40,000 reais, or $22,200, to armor an automobile, while O'Gara, which uses mainly imported material, charges $35,000 for an average job. All this is on top of the normal price of the car, which tends to run high in Brazil because of tariffs on imported autos.
Additional items like anti-explosive gas tanks, nonpuncturing car batteries, sirens, walkie-talkie systems and armoring resistant to gunfire from automatic weapons like AK-47's can more than double the price.
In a reflection of the cars favored by prosperous Paulistanos, as this city's residents are called, BMW's, Mercedes and Jeep Cherokees are the most-sought-after models for armoring. The Volvo Car Corporation, of Sweden, a unit of the Ford Motor Company, is looking to join this group through an agreement formed this month with O'Gara.
Under the accord, Volvo's Brazilian subsidiary agreed to work exclusively with O'Gara to armor new cars for an average added cost of $38,000. The advantage of the deal for the consumer in search of an armoring job will be a brand new Volvo with O'Gara armoring, sold with a guarantee.
"We're providing added value to the existing image of Volvo as a very safe automobile," said Luis Carlos Name Pimenta, head of Volvo's operations for Mercosur, the South American trade bloc consisting of Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay.
The two companies said they expected sales of $400,000 a month from the agreement. The Volvos will be armored on their arrival in Brazil from factories in Sweden, Belgium and Holland.
While some Brazilians are rushing to buy such vehicles, others are trying to decipher their allure.
"It is emblematic of the end of a society," said Ignacio de Loyola Brandao, a writer whose 1982 novel, "And Still the Earth," is a science fiction account of Sao Paulo gone awry in the future.
"Soon the haves will circulate throughout the city in personal tanks," Mr. Brandao said in an interview. "And the misery, the banditry, the conditions that make this possible will coexist with this perversity."
Sao Paulo was not always a city of such extremes. In 1960, before some 46 million Brazilians left rural areas for cities in a three-decade migration that was one of the largest of the 20th century, Sao Paulo was a relatively calm city of 3.7 million. And income disparities across Brazilian society were not as sharp.
Then, the city's population was served by an extensive network of trolleys and buses, along with 164,000 private automobiles, according to the Fernand Braudel Institute of World Economics, a research center here. Today, there are roughly 17 million people in Sao Paulo and 5.1 million cars.
The city underwent a metamorphosis to make way for all of the cars. The trolleys were junked and their tracks were torn out, cobblestone streets were widened into vast thoroughfares and tunnels were built under the city center. Even more than in most cities, pedestrians were relegated to second-class status.
With a new, car-dominated Sao Paulo chiseled out of the old, another important trend was changing urban life: rising crime. Afraid of muggings and other street crime, many well-off Paulistanos have retreated in the last 20 years into gated communities with names like Alphaville or Mountain Village.
According to Tulio Kahn, a United Nations researcher here who has studied the rise of urban violence, the same fear that is fueling the increase in armored-car sales and the cordoning off of residential areas has also contributed to the rapid growth of private security services.
In the state of Sao Paulo, which includes the city proper and surrounding regions with a combined population of 35 million, there are about 400,000 private security guards, compared with 120,000 police officers. A third of the citizens of Sao Paulo pay security guards to watch over their homes, according to United Nations figures.
Much of the recent concern over crime has been centered around the automobile, though. There were 23,562 car robberies in the first quarter of 1999, a 54 percent increase from the period a year earlier. "Car theft has grown more than any other type of crime," Mr. Kahn said.
But does the threat of having your car stolen justify the expense of having it armored? The answer may have more to do with the perception of fear and with the disposable income of Brazil's wealthy than with the probability of life-threatening crime while one is driving.
Drivers for years have been vulnerable to muggings at intersections, and many habitually speed through red lights at night or when traffic is light. In Rio de Janeiro, in fact, officials recently told drivers they would not be fined for running red lights at night. But carjackings or the type of holdups involving automobiles that end in gunfire are far less common than car thefts, analysts said.
"The rush for armored cars is more about displaying status than protecting oneself," said Jose Vicente da Silva Filho, a former colonel in the military police who is now a researcher at the Fernand Braudel Institute.
According to Mr. da Silva, Sao Paulo had 5,157 homicides last year. Yet only about 200 of those murders were related to robberies.
And in a display of how violence plagues poor neighborhoods much more than rich ones, the more prosperous districts were relatively free of murders.
For instance, in the police district encompassing the prosperous neighborhoods known as Jardins, there were no homicides in 1998. In nearby Jardim Angela, police registered 195 murders last year, or an average of 16.3 a month. Yet few armored-car owners from Jardins have ever ventured close to Jardim Angela.
"If someone insists on driving a BMW around Sao Paulo, I'd advise them to put 1,000 reais ($555) in their glove compartment instead of spending 40,000 to armor their car," Mr. da Silva said. "Give the 1,000 reais to the bandit. It's cheaper."
For most people here, like Ana Carolina Bueno Abe, a 24-year-old pharmaceuticals saleswoman, less might do.
Early one morning in April, shortly after the Lemann kidnapping attempt, two adolescent girls approached Ms. Abe's car as she waited at a red light. One girl stretched her arm through the window and held a piece of broken glass to her throat, demanding the money from her purse.
"I only had 2 reais in cash," -- about $1.10, Ms. Abe said. "I gave it to her and she walked away."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bullet-resistant windshields, along with anti-explosive gas tanks, nonpuncturing car batteries, sirens and armoring that can withstand automatic weapons fire, are installed at O'Gara-Hess & Eisenhardt. (Paulo Fridman for The New York Times)(pg. C2); Only one of 20 bullets fired at Jorge Paulo Lemann's car penetrated its armor. (Sergio Tomisake/Agencia Globo for The New York Times); At O'Gara-Hess & Eisenhardt Armoring in Sao Paulo, sales tripled in one month after a foiled kidnapping. (Paulo Fridman for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Graphs: "Rich vs. Poor"
Wide disparities between the wealthy and the poor in Brazil, along with economic woes and rising crime, have produced social tensions illustrated by a sharp increase in demand for armored vehicles among the richest Brazilians.
 
Brazil's allocation of national income, 1995
RICHEST QUINTILE: 64.2%
POOREST QUINTILE: 2.5%
SECOND QUINTILE: 17.7%
THIRD QUINTILE: 9.9%
FOURTH QUINTILE: 5.7%
 
Income distribution for selected countries*
 
Brazil
RICHEST QUINTILE: 64.2%
POOREST QUINTILE: 2.5%
 
Mexico
RICHEST QUINTILE: 58.2%
POOREST QUINTILE: 3.6%
 
Argentina+
RICHEST QUINTILE: 53.7%
POOREST QUINTILE: 4.0%
 
United States
RICHEST QUINTILE: 45.2%
POOREST QUINTILE: 4.8%
 
France
RICHEST QUINTILE: 40.1%
POOREST QUINTILE: 7.2%
 
Britain
RICHEST QUINTILE: 39.8%
POOREST QUINTILE: 7.1%
 
Graph plots number of Violent crimes in Sao Paulo, from first quarter 1997 through first quarter 1999. (Sources: World Bank; United Nations)
 
*Data are latest available: Brazil, '95; Mexico, '95; Argentina, '96; United States, '94; France, '89; Britain, '86. +Buenos Aires region only.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KROG (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (83%); NAICS561613 ARMORED CAR SERVICES (69%); SIC7381 DETECTIVE, GUARD, & ARMORED CAR SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (52%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: O'GARA-HESS & EISENHARDT ARMORING CO KROLL INC (83%); O'GARA-HESS & EISENHARDT ARMORING CO LLC (69%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: O'GARA-HESS & EISENHARDT ARMORING CO UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); OHIO, USA (52%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING; ARMOR; AUTOMOBILES; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ARMORED CAR SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); BONDS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); RECESSION (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); BREWERIES (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); INFLATION (69%); TRENDS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); SAFETY GLASS MFG (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%); DEVALUATION (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN, JORGE PAULO

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



554 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Publisher Leases Large Space in the East Village

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
The American subsidiary of VNU, the Netherlands-based company that publishes Billboard magazine and The Hollywood Reporter, has signed a lease for 465,000 square feet of space at 770 Broadway, the former Wanamaker department store, between Eighth and Ninth Streets in the East Village.
The transaction is the biggest leasing deal so far this year, said executives of Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services company that represented VNU. The Dutch company is consolidating from several other locations in the city, where it occupies 440,000 square feet. 
 VNU, which had been considering moving to Fairfield County in Connecticut, was offered an $11 million package of city and state tax incentives. The offices of the city's Economic Development Corporation were closed yesterday and no officials could be reached for comment.
Lee Winter, Cushman & Wakefield's director of economic incentives, said the breaks amounted to an exemption from city and state sales tax on capital improvements and savings on energy costs.
The East Village has not been a traditional location for big corporations. Bruce Mosler, executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield, said the 72,000-square-foot floors in the building, which occupies a square block, were a major attraction for VNU because they require less movement between floors.
"It's not a traditional location, but it is reflective of the market we are in," in which large blocks of space are increasingly scarce, Mr. Mosler said. He said the area had an abundance of restaurants and stores, which should be attractive to the younger people on the staffs of VNU's publications.
The million-square-foot building is owned by one of the largest commercial property owners in Manhattan, Vornado Realty Trust, which bought it last year. To bring the 1910 building up to date, Vornado is undertaking a $35 million renovation, including improvements to the lobby and modernization of the elevators and air-conditioning system.
The building was built from 1904 to 1910 for John Wanamaker, the Philadelphia-based retailer. The store closed in 1954. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (84%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (84%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (65%); 

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VNU NV; CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (84%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: VNU NV; CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS PUBLISHING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); SALES TAX (74%); LOBBYING (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAX LAW (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (66%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN BRUCE MOSLER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



555 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Hancock County Journal;
Luckless County Joins Landless Tribe

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: SPARTA, Ga., July 19

 BODY:
By 10 o'clock on a typical summer's morning, Hancock County is almost deserted.
A few children play in overgrown backyards full of junked cars and rotting timbers, and older people fan themselves on sagging porches. But almost anyone who works has left the county hours before, because there are virtually no jobs in Hancock County. 
 The term "pocket of poverty" cannot begin to describe the overwhelming stillness of a county with no economy: the deserted roads and store aisles, the old cotton fields untilled and overgrown. Every employer of any size has left, and new ones seeking cheap land look at the county's statistics -- more than half the adults did not finish high school, 7 of 10 births are to unwed mothers -- and say no thanks. Unspoken in most of those decisions is the knowledge that the county's population is 82 percent black, the highest percentage in Georgia and the fourth highest in the nation.
Most of Georgia is prospering now, and the state's unemployment descended to a record low of 4.1 percent last month. But only 80 miles from Atlanta's economic turbine, the jobless rate was 10.7 percent in Hancock County, and its per capita income of $15,390 is a third less than that of the rest of the state. The county's leaders have begged for projects no one else wanted: poultry processing plants, a landfill, a waste incinerator. Everything has fallen through except for the prison the state agreed to build a few years ago outside this crumbling county seat, and that project is cut off from the county's 9,134 residents by empty miles and a haze of razor wire.
So it was probably inevitable that the county would place its economic hopes on the ultimate last resort: an Indian gambling casino. For the last six weeks, ever since the tiny Kialegee tribe in Oklahoma expressed an interest in coming, county residents have talked of nothing else.
"It's the last chance for our county," said Lesley James Roberts, Hancock County's special projects director, who is spending almost all his time on the casino project. "Think about what all those tourists could do for us. We'd have the money to restore all those antebellum homes on the old plantations, and the storefronts in town and maybe do historical re-enactments. It would give our people a chance to become independent."
The casino, of course, is a long way from becoming a reality. Among other hurdles, the state and the tribe would have to negotiate a compact for a reservation, and Gov. Roy E. Barnes has said he opposes casino gambling, although the state runs a lottery. (The Federal Government could approve the project if the state refuses.) But in the meantime, an instant bond has been formed between two groups of impoverished people.
The Kialegees, numbering about 450, are a landless tribe, sharing space in Wetumka, Okla., with the much larger Creek Nation, to whom they are related. Along with several other Creek tribes, they trace their origin to northern and central Georgia, from which they were forcibly resettled 160 years ago along the Trail of Tears. The tribe has tried several times to build casinos elsewhere but has been rebuffed, most recently in Carroll County, Ga., on the Alabama border west of Atlanta.
Carroll County residents, close enough to Atlanta to benefit from its boom, said they feared crime and disruption from the casino, but the reception has been very different here. Most residents are descendants of slaves who once worked the plantations in the area, and Hancock County is one of a string of largely black counties stretching from Virginia to East Texas known as the Black Belt. Most are significantly more impoverished than their neighbors.
In May, after R. Allen Haywood, the editor and publisher of the weekly Sparta Ishmaelite, noticed an article about Carroll County's rejection, he suggested that Hancock County officials contact the tribe. Kialegee leaders were immediately interested, and received a warm reception at an overflowing town meeting here last week. They were even more intrigued when they learned that there were large Indian mounds in Hancock County, of unknown origin and dating back hundreds of years.
"There was an almost instant camaraderie between the tribal members and the citizens of the county," said Kenneth R. Baldwin, who runs an investment group in McAlester, Okla., that is representing the Kialegees. "They both have an understanding of what it means to have to struggle, to not have the opportunities you'd like to have. The tribe felt more welcome there than anywhere else they have been."
Residents of the county have heard all of society's warnings about gambling and are aware that it is not always a pathway out of distress. But they have also seen studies showing that there is no other full-fledged casino in Georgia, Florida or the Carolinas, and are convinced that gamblers will make their way to this nearly abandoned county once the lights flash on the proposed casino, hotel and golf course. Considering Hancock County's current situation -- in which the largest employer is its public school system -- local leaders say they could hardly do worse.
"This is a place where people are struggling to keep a roof over their heads and clothes on their backs," Mr. Roberts said. "Our history hasn't put us in a position to be very selective about what we want."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unemployment is high and income is low in Hancock County, Ga., which is seeking to build a casino with the Kialegee tribe of Oklahoma. Above, Cameron Dixon, 15, at his house in Sparta, the county seat. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

Map showing the location of Sparta: Hancock County has no share in Atlanta's booming economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HANCOCK COUNTY (GA); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; KIALEGEE INDIANS; CASINOS CHILDREN (90%); CASINOS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); GAMING (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); LANDFILLS (69%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (64%); POULTRY PROCESSING (64%); 

PERSON: BARNES, ROY E (GOV); FIRESTONE, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



556 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: New 'President' of Belarus Flees the Crackdown on Dissidents

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 23

 BODY:
Crackdowns on those who oppose President Aleksandr Lukashenko of Belarus have led the chief opposition figure to flee to Lithuania after his supporters voted him acting president and proclaimed the Lukashenko Government at an end.
The opposition leader, Semyon Sharetsky, a former Speaker of Parliament, apparently feared for his safety during a new Government crackdown on critics, who charge that Mr. Lukashenko has illegally extended his rule, which originally was to have ended earlier this week. 
 "Yesterday Mr. Sharetsky and I went by car to Vilnius," the former President Stanislav Shushkevich said in an interview this evening, "and today I returned. Mr. Sharetsky has remained there for now."
Mr. Sharetsky was the Speaker of the Belarus Parliament in 1996 when Mr. Lukashenko nullified the nation's first Constitution, disbanded the Parliament and extended his own term by two years, to 2001. Mr. Lukashenko acted after staging a national referendum that most international observers say was rigged.
Mr. Shushkevich, who was the first President of Belarus after it gained independence, said the two men went to Lithuania to seek backing from political leaders for their opposition to the Lukashenko Government, and that it was unclear when Mr. Sharetsky would return.
"I personally was trying to get him out of here in order to insure his safety," Mr. Shushkevich said.
Mr. Lukashenko remains the most popular politician in Belarus, but his Soviet-style rule has been distinguished by an increasingly dysfunctional economy and, critics say, growing political repression.
Under the nullified Constitution, Mr. Lukashenko's term in office would have expired on Tuesday, and the police have cracked down on protests by dissidents several times this week. On Tuesday a peaceful March by about 1,000 protesters was followed by the arrest of a dozen dissidents and the opening of a criminal investigation of the editor of a popular opposition newspaper, Imya.
The editor, Irina Khalip, said today that she was accused of defamation after the newspaper printed allegations about a month ago that top Government officials had ties to organized crime. Although she has not been arrested, she said in an interview today, her apartment and the offices of Imya were searched on Thursday, and she was questioned until late that evening by state prosecutors.
Ms. Khalip is scheduled to go to the United States later this month for a cross-country series of seminars on the American press sponsored by the United States Information Agency. Prosecutors initially seized her passport, she said, but later returned it and said she was free to make the trip.
"They said I'd be called in for questioning after my return, and I gather the question of the measures to be taken against me will be decided then," she said.
On Wednesday, the police dogged an unauthorized protest by some 2,500 people in downtown Minsk's October Square and arrested 53 more critics, including some members of the disbanded Parliament. Authorities said that they were later released, but opposition officials cast doubt on that, saying that many had not returned to their homes.
And on Thursday the police arrested a leading human rights activist, Valery Shchukin, as he stood with the head of the group monitoring human rights for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Mr. Sharetsky is the leading figure in the week's protests, the Speaker of the Supreme Soviet, the former National Parliament.
The new pro-Lukashenko legislature, the National Assembly, absorbed many members of the old soviet, but those who refused to join have become a focus of what little political opposition still exists.
On Tuesday, 35 members of the old parliament decreed that Mr. Sharetsky was acting president under the old Constitution, which provides for the Speaker to fill any presidential vacancy until new presidential elections are held.
A spokesman called on Mr. Lukashenko to hold free elections for Parliament and to open negotiations with opposition leaders.
Mr. Lukashenko appears to have reacted to the week's events with mounting irritation.
On Wednesday, he said he would negotiate only with constructive opponents, excluding "the political bankrupts who ruined the country" before he came to power in 1994.
And he asserted that he has no intention of leaving power anytime soon.
"I have not yet done everything, and that is why I will be in power for a long time," he said.
On Thursday, he appeared on live television with the head of the state-controlled television network, whom he excoriated for allowing the broadcast of videotape of the week's protests.
"Thousands of people came, of whom 600 were police in plainclothes," he said. "They walked and walked, got tired and then they went home. And you show that to a whole country."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of Minsk: On Wednesday, some 2,500 people protested in downtown Minsk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BELARUS (97%); LITHUANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: BELARUS PARLIAMENT (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELARUS PARLIAMENT (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELARUS (97%); LITHUANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); LIBEL & SLANDER (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: ALEKSANDR LUKASHENKO (95%); SEMYON SHARETSKY (90%); STANISLAV SHUSHKEVICH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



557 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Shift on Tax-Cut Bill: Gain or Loss for Moderates?

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 23

 BODY:
A few days ago, a group of moderate Republicans said they adamantly opposed a $792 billion tax cut because it was far too large. But after the measure passed on Thursday, many of the same people wore satisfied smiles. Why? Because they had forced a relatively minor change in the largest tax cut bill in 18 years.
"We made a significant difference here," said Representative Marge Roukema, a New Jersey Republican who, along with about 10 other moderates, withdrew their opposition to the bill at the eleventh hour, providing the margin of victory. 
 But the language the moderates had negotiated did not reduce the size of the tax cut. Instead, it made part of the reduction contingent on reducing Government debt payments, a hastily drawn provision that has been criticized by many economists as unworkable and is not expected to survive in the Senate.
So, while many moderates viewed the episode as sparkling evidence of their growing stature, most Democrats and even some moderates saw the concession as illusory. To them, the vote underscored the moderates' shortcomings, from their fractiousness to their poor negotiating skills, and showed why the group remained, in many eyes, the 98-pound weakling of the House.
"They caved," said the chief of staff to one moderate Republican, expressing a view shared privately by other moderates. "Nobody takes you seriously when you take a position and then walk back in."
To Representative Michael N. Castle, a moderate Republican from Delaware who voted against the tax bill, the vote illustrated how discordant the moderates can be.
"When you talk about the Conservative Action Team, they are 99 percent unified," Mr. Castle said, referring to a conservative Republican group in the House. "When you talk about the moderates, you're talking about people who are going to disagree 99 percent of time."
To the 40 or so moderate House Republicans from the Northeast, the Midwest and California, this was to have been the year they regained influence over a caucus that has been dominated by conservatives from the South and the West since 1994.
After the Republicans lost five House seats in the midterm elections last November, and the impeachment of President Clinton in December further tarnished the party's image among many voters, moderates predicted that the leadership would increasingly turn to them to help pull the party toward the center.
But it has not quite worked out that way.
Moderates, who led the way in forcing the House leadership to bring campaign finance reform legislation to the floor last year, have been far less vocal on the issue this year, with only six signing a petition requiring a vote. And moderates were unable to prevent their party's leadership from pushing measures to weaken restrictions on gun ownership in the recent debate over gun control.
But nowhere was the limits of the moderates' influence more clear than on the tax cut bill.
All along, the group had been sharply divided on the issue. Some, like Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, supported a deep, across-the-board income tax cut. But others raised concerns that a large tax cut would take money from other priorities, like building schools, reducing the debt and shoring up Medicare and Social Security.
In February a group of 11 moderate Republicans led by Representative Nancy L. Johnson of Connecticut introduced a more modest array of tax cuts amounting to $100 billion over five years. Within weeks, it seemed that Mrs. Johnson's plan would prevail over a more ambitious proposal for a 10 percent tax cut.
But last week, to the dismay and surprise of many moderates, the Republican leadership revived the plan for a 10 percent cut. Angered that they had not been consulted about the bill, a group of about 15 moderates vowed to join Democrats in killing it unless it was scaled back.
Over the next few days, House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois argued that his leadership was on the line, that the party needed a big tax cut for next year's elections and that the reduction was almost certain to be scaled back in negotiations with the White House anyway.
One by one, the moderates yielded. Finally, Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, proposed the tax-cut trigger, causing all but four of the holdouts to rejoin the Republican fold. Besides Mr. Castle, the Republicans who voted against the bill were Representatives Constance A. Morella of Maryland, Greg Ganske of Iowa and Jack Quinn of upstate New York.
After the vote many moderates said they had voted for the bill because they were convinced it would be trimmed back. "It's not going to be $792 billion, we know that," said Representative Sherwood Boehlert, a Republican from Utica, N.Y.
Asserting that "the evidence is all about us" that moderates are helping to steer Republican policy this year on issues like education, Mr. Boehlert added, "I think the moderates' standing has been enhanced" by the fight over tax cuts.
Several moderates said the tax debate was symbolically important because it showed that the leadership had to pay attention to them.
But some moderates complained that opponents of the tax cut had made a tactical blunder in publicly attacking a core Republican issue. They said they should have fought behind the scenes, knowing that the leadership would try to force them into line. In the end, these critics said, the moderates lost twice, first by looking disloyal and then by appearing weak.
Mrs. Morella said she was not disappointed that most of the moderates had supported the tax cut, since she expects Mr. Clinton to veto it, forcing Congress to scale it back. But she said she worried that the entire exercise might damage the Republican Party.
"What will we have proven?" she asked. "That the President had to force our hands. I'm not sure the Republicans come out looking that good." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PETITIONS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); IMPEACHMENT (68%); GUN CONTROL (63%); FIREARMS (60%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES MICHAEL N CASTLE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



558 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

S.& P. and Dow Jones Drop On Interest Rate Concerns
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 4.03 points, or three-tenths of a percent, to 1,356.94, and the Dow Jones industrial average declined 58.26 points, or half a percent, to 10,910.96. But the Nasdaq composite index rose 7.96 points, or three-tenths of a percent, to 2,692.40. 
 The S.& P. 500 fell 4.4 percent for the week, its worst performance since the week ended Sept. 4, on concern that interest rates are headed higher. The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, said Thursday that the central bank might raise borrowing costs to head off inflation. The concern over interest rates overshadowed corporate profits that are growing at the fastest rate since the third quarter of 1997. Page C3.
 
Two Exchanges Moving to Go Public
America's two largest stock markets, the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq market, are moving quickly to convert from nonprofit institutions to for-profit corporations, with the New York exchange confirming that it could be ready to sell shares to the public as early as mid-November. A1.
 
It is impossible to know what the New York Stock Exchange would be worth if its own shares were traded on the Big Board. But using a back-of-the-envelope method of calculation produces a rough market value for the Big Board of $15 billion. C14.
 
America Online Blocks Competitors
America Online closed its service to people using software introduced Thursday by two of its fiercest rivals, Microsoft and Yahoo. The programs were written to tap into one of America Online's most popular features: instant messages, which appear in an open window on the recipients' computer screens only seconds after they are sent. A1.
 
Safeway to Buy Randall's Markets
The supermarket chain Safeway will buy the Randall's Food Markets chain for about $1.4 billion in cash and stock. The combined company will operate more than 1,645 stores in 19 states and in Canada, employing more than 183,000 people. C3.
 
Tax Bill Offers Breaks for Business
The far-reaching $792 billion tax cut passed by the House on Thursday is full of fiercely sought but little noticed special provisions for business and industry. A9.
 
Bankers' Arrests Reported in Japan
Six former executives of Nippon Credit Bank, a failed Japanese bank, were arrested on suspicion of covering up more than $830 million in losses, the state-run NHK television reported. It said the investigation of the cover-up might spread to the Ministry of Finance, which might have known that the bank was in trouble but took no steps, out of fear of provoking its collapse. Among the six arrested was Shigeoki Togo, a former president. C14.
 
U S West Profits Increased 9.4%
U S West, the regional phone company being acquired by Qwest Communications, reported a 9.4 percent gain in second-quarter income, buoyed by data and Internet services. C3.
 
Unemployment Increases in Brazil
Brazil's unemployment rate increased to 8.4 percent in June from 8.37 percent a month earlier, as hiring by industrial conglomerates failed to offset a wave of corporate cutbacks. Two state-controlled companies said they were considering layoffs. Cemig, an electric utility, may dismiss 400 workers, while Copasa, a water treatment company, could discharge 200. C2.
 
Technology Via the Israeli Army
The Israeli army's elite computer corps, Mamram, is gaining recognition as a business training ground. Last August, for example, two Mamram veterans, Ori and Israel Mazin, sold Memco Software to Platinum Technology for $550 million. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,910.96 down 58.26
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.02% up 0.06
The euro -- $1.050 down 0.001
The dollar -- 116.55 yen down 0.15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 8304 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (64%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: RANDALL'S FOOD MARKETS INC (64%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); AOL INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); AOZORA BANK LTD (51%); BIG BOARD (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BIG BOARD (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BANK FAILURES (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ARRESTS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



559 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1787 words

HEADLINE: TWO TOP MARKETS READY TO BECOME PUBLIC COMPANIES

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
The two largest United States stock markets, the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq market, are moving quickly to convert from nonprofit institutions to for-profit corporations, with the New York exchange confirming yesterday that it could be ready to sell shares to the public as early as mid-November.
"My hope is that before people sit down to their Thanksgiving dinner, they will be able to look up the shares of the New York Stock Exchange in that day's newspaper and see how they are trading," Richard A. Grasso, the chairman and chief executive of the exchange, said in an interview yesterday. 
 The exchange's 1,366 members could be asked to vote on the historic transformation as early as mid-September, Mr. Grasso said, although he would not say what stake in the business might ultimately be sold to the public or at what price.
And the Nasdaq market may not be far behind the Big Board. Senior market officials confirmed yesterday that the board of Nasdaq's parent organization, the National Association of Securities Dealers, would review on Thursday a detailed plan that could result in the Nasdaq market becoming a publicly traded corporation by early next year.
Proponents of the plans say the conversions could produce healthier, better-financed, more adaptable American markets for investors seeking profits and entrepreneurs raising capital. With new competitors emerging daily and electronic networks changing the financial landscape, leaders of both markets emphasized that they must act quickly to preserve their dominant franchises.
But the sudden rush to become public companies leaves unanswered for now some crucial questions about how to regulate these markets and still foster competition and innovation.
The nation's two premier stock markets are now structured roughly like member-owned country clubs. Only the members in this case are the corporate citizens of Wall Street, ranging from giants like Merrill Lynch with a commanding presence in both markets to small independent brokers who own a single seat on the New York exchange. Like country clubs, these nonprofit institutions cover their expenses by charging fees to those who use their services, imposing commissions on each trade, annual dues for each company listed for trading, and separate fees for access to the stock quotations generated by each market's trading activity.
But just as a country club must balance the interest of the tennis players who want more courts against golfers who want better greens, the exchanges are controlled by large cumbersome boards whose ability to act quickly has been impaired by conflicting interests among their members.
As corporations with publicly traded stock, the Nasdaq market and the New York exchange could more easily acquire complementary businesses, including upstart networks that are nibbling away at their trading volume. Moreover, they could generate new profits by developing proprietary products or forming joint ventures with markets abroad.
Without shares of stock that could be used for an acquisition, the exchanges would have to finance such expansion by raising the fees of their members, further encouraging defections to less-expensive rivals.
By adopting a corporate structure, the two markets would also face the pressures that confront other companies in an age of low inflation, constant downsizing and aggressive takeovers: the need to price their services competitively and yet generate profits for their demanding stockholders.
The notion of for-profit stock exchanges began abroad. Since 1993, more than a half-dozen exchanges, from Iceland to Singapore, have converted, and Toronto and Hong Kong are studying the idea.
But the concept remains untested among stock markets in the United States, although two small regional exchanges -- the Philadelphia and Pacific exchanges -- are exploring the option.
Stock markets are not merely stock-trading businesses, of course. Since the early 1930's, American stock markets have been vested with important self-policing responsibilities, noted Lawrence J. White, an economist at New York University.
"To the extent that you make them for-profit, and especially, that you open up their ownership to the general public -- boy, that role becomes a whole lot harder to fill," he said.
Moreover, Nasdaq and the Big Board still possess near-monopoly power in the world's stock-trading business. "The exercise of that power will be easier when each is a for-profit entity," Professor White said. "The incentives will be stronger, and the mechanisms more available."
But the leaders of America's two major markets have seen electronic networks attract a small, but rapidly growing share of stock trades the last two years. Some of these rivals offer faster, customized services to powerful institutions and the expanding population of on-line investors.
The flurry of proposals, after months of Wall Street speculation, reflects the growing belief among the markets' leaders that only a corporate structure can give them the ready access to capital, the ability to make critical acquisitions and the decision-making speed that they need to compete.
"Unless you do what we propose," a senior N.A.S.D. official said of the Nasdaq plan, "the value of this place diminishes in a dramatic fashion in a very short period of time."
Mr. Grasso of the New York exchange agreed. "We are competing against competitors who are publicly owned," he said. "We need the potential supply of capital and the flexibility to have common stock as a script to acquire other marketplaces."
Although the New York exchange and Nasdaq have been fierce rivals for decades, they are structured quite differently. The Big Board is an auction market, where traders meet on the floor to haggle for the best price for their customers, who pay a commission. Nasdaq is an electronically connected network of dealers around the country who buy at one price and sell at another, profiting on their markup.
Mr. Grasso met privately on Wednesday evening with several hundred exchange members to brief them on the proposal that he expects to be ready for the exchange's board the first week in September.
He said the members who attended were "very, very supportive and enthusiastic," though there are still key details to be worked out with the help of Merrill Lynch, which is advising the exchange on a pro bono basis.
Among the key issues that Merrill has been asked to explore before the September board meeting, Mr. Grasso said, is the tax treatment of the transaction and how it would affect the exchange's members.
According to Mr. Grasso, the preliminary plan calls for each seat on the stock exchange to be converted into two new instruments: the first could be "a perpetual trading permit or license, that can be leased or sold," and the second would be common stock in the new enterprise.
Then, the exchange would undertake an initial public offering, selling new shares to the public. The number of shares that would be sold, what initial price they would carry and what portion of the company would remain with the current owners has not yet been disclosed.
The Nasdaq proposal, while still a work in progress, is complicated slightly by the structure of its parent organization, the N.A.S.D., which counts as members all the nation's licensed securities dealers, including the electronic communications networks, or E.C.N.'s, with which Nasdaq competes. The dealers' association also operates the American Stock Exchange and a regulatory and arbitration unit, called NASD-R.
People involved with the N.A.S.D. plan said it envisions making the Nasdaq market a public corporation; upgrading the electronic backbone of the Amex with an eye toward taking it public eventually, and retaining the regulatory unit.
Some "substantial portion" of the proceeds of a Nasdaq sale would then be earmarked to finance the parent organization's regulatory function, either with an endowment or the purchase of an annuity.
The Big Board, for now at least, envisions retaining its regulatory unit as part of the new corporation.
Mr. Grasso said he had shared details of the plan with Arthur Levitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, who was described as "very enthusiastic and supportive."
The N.A.S.D. has proposed that the two markets combine their regulatory units into a single freestanding entity, but a merger poses complications, Mr. Grasso explained. With the pace of change, he said, "I cannot spend 6 to 12 months looking at how to posture a self-regulatory group."
But some market experts argue that such questions are too important to be postponed. With public shareholders constantly demanding profit growth, "what is the incentive to invest beyond the next quarter?" asked Joseph Anastasio, a partner in the Capital Markets Company, an international market consultant.
While he and other market experts agree quicker decision-making is essential, they argue that both markets could achieve that simply by streamlining their governing structure.
But under the structure at the New York exchange, it is so cumbersome for management to win consensus from all the competing constituencies that "the decision-making and implementation process is slowed down," said Richard A. Rosenblatt, whose firm leases five seats on the New York exchange.
"Something has to change," he added. "It doesn't have to be the corporate structure, but that is the easiest way to do it."
The same conflicts face the membership of the N.A.S.D., as well, with on-line brokers squaring off against the giant full-service brokers, and traditional market makers competing against the E.C.N.'s.
It is less clear whether the Nasdaq leadership has the same support for its proposal that Mr. Grasso claims. But Frank G. Zarb, chairman and chief executive of the N.A.S.D., has earned high marks for his ability to gauge his diverse board's willingness to consider innovative proposals.
One senior market official said that he believed all N.A.S.D. members "want an organization that can be responsive and competitive -- and one in which they can have a direct investment, so they can profit from it and be confident that the organization will be responsive and competitive in the years to come."
The N.A.S.D. board will have a look at the current staff proposal for spinning off the Nasdaq market when it meets on Thursday in New York, several board members said. But the leadership believes that a formal spinoff of the Nasdaq market should be postponed until after the securities industry has safely navigated the Year 2000 computer issues. "Everybody has a lot on their plate already," one market official said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Grasso, head of the Big Board, hopes the exchange can go public by Thanksgiving. (Reuters)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (88%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PAYWALLS (75%); BONDS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (68%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); GOLF (62%); ATHLETES (60%); THANKSGIVING (56%); 

PERSON: GRASSO, RICHARD A; HENRIQUES, DIANA B CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



560 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: $35 Million Approved For Urban Aid

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Breaking a yearlong logjam, the seven-member board that administers a huge Government program to stimulate economic development in upper Manhattan and the South Bronx voted yesterday to spend nearly $35 million on loans, grants and investments, more than the total amount committed since the program began in 1994.
The program, the New York Empowerment Zone, had been criticized as stagnant, jeopardizing hundreds of millions of urban-renewal dollars for two of the city's poorest areas. The city, which had agreed to match the state and Federal contributions of $100 million each, said that the approval process has been so slow that it spent no money on the program during the fiscal year that ended on June 30. 
 But yesterday, the board, which is made up of city, state and Federal officials, approved 13 projects, and members sent a clear signal that they had resolved to shake off their obstructionist image. The board met in executive session for nearly an hour yesterday before opening the meeting to the public, and approved projects ranging from $800,000 in grants and loans to El Museo del Barrio in East Harlem to a $1 million loan to help a meat processing company move from lower Manhattan to Hunts Point in the Bronx.
"I feel as though we've really turned the corner here," said Rudy Washington, Deputy Mayor for Community Development and Business Services, who holds the city's seat on the board. Officials of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, which manages the program for Harlem, Washington Heights and Inwood, had blamed Mr. Washington for paralyzing the process.
Mr. Washington has said he had resisted many proposals because he wanted to make sure that the money was spent on economic development, not social programs.
Yesterday, Mr. Washington found a new ally, United States Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Harlem Democrat who was one of the authors of the 1993 Federal legislation that created empowerment zones in New York and six other cities.
Mr. Rangel, who sits on the New York Empowerment Zone board, repeatedly raised questions during the meeting about the appropriateness of the proposals, asking at one point whether a joint Y.M.C.A. and Hostos Community College summer program for youth should seek its $132,300 from other sources. "I don't see where this is economic development," Mr. Rangel said. But in the end, the grant was approved.
Action on proposals to award more than $8 million in grants for help create an Upper Manhattan Tourism Advisory Council and Visitor Center Network was postponed after the Congressman said that other state and city agencies should participate in financing those programs.
The costliest proposal the board approved was a $25 million loan to provide 11 percent of the financing for a 300-room hotel and conference center in Washington Heights. Because some board members said that the deal on the hotel had not advanced far enough, the loan was contingent on its progress.
The $211 million Washington Heights Plaza Hotel would be built on the site of a parking lot in the New York Presbyterian Hospital complex. Myra Manners, a spokeswoman for the hospital, said that the project was only in its early stages and that the the board's action could be the catalyst to move the project forward.
In urging the board to approve the hotel proposal, Terry C. Lane, the acting president of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, said that it could accommodate doctors from all over the country who attend conferences at the hospital and stay in midtown or New Jersey.
A former managing director of Bancomer Securities International Inc., Mr. Lane is a candidate to replace Deborah C. Wright, who resigned in April to become president of Carver Bancorp.
Mr. Washington, who had a difficult relationship with Ms. Wright, said after the meeting that he was "really encouraged" by Mr. Lane. "Philosophically, a lot of people have come to one place," he said.
Despite Mr. Lane's urging, however, the board declined to allocate $25 million in grants, loans and equity investments for uptown cultural organizations. Instead, the members said they would tentatively earmark the pool of money so that arts organizations could apply for financing separately.
Referring to the cultural fund, Randy Daniels, a senior vice president of the Empire State Development Corporation, said, "Conceptually, the state supports this." But he said that empowerment zone money should be allocated only after an organization had demonstrated ways to use it to leverage money from other sources.
Even with all the conditions and reservations, board members said that the empowerment zone had come back to life.
"There's been such an uptick from the last few months," said Bill De Blasio, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development's representative for New York and New Jersey, "that if things continue at this pace, it's going to have a very positive result." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK EMPOWERMENT (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENTERPRISE ZONES; FEDERAL AID (US); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; URBAN DEVELOPMENT ACTION GRANTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CITIES (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (72%); TRENDS (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (51%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (51%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; WASHINGTON, RUDY (DEPUTY MAYOR) CHARLES B RANGEL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



561 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: In the Land of Joyce and Yeats, a Struggle to Read A B C's

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, July 23

 BODY:
Ireland, with its rich heritage of great writers, has one of the highest illiteracy rates of the world's developed countries.
According to a United Nations study of 12 developed nations issued this month, Ireland, with a total population of 3.6 million, has 500,000 adults -- 23 percent -- who are functionally illiterate, that is, who cannot read a gas bill, a letter or a newspaper, who cannot do the simplest arithmetic. 
 Among developed countries in Europe, only Poland, with 42 percent, has a higher rate of illiteracy. In the United States, about 21 percent of adults cannot read or count; in Britain, about 22; in Germany, about 14; and in Sweden, about 7.
The figures in the report, issued by the United Nations Human Development Program, mean that nearly one in four Irish adults is seriously impaired, finding it difficult or impossible to find work even in the growing economy of the Celtic Tiger.
"The finding that 23 percent of the people of this state are unable to read instructions, a bill or a form, that they are 'functionally illiterate,' is almost incredible," said an editorial in The Irish Times.
"It's higher than even we thought," said Mary Maher, the director of the Adult Learning Center in Dublin.
Tony Geraghty, a handyman studying at the center, said, "I felt like my brain was in a cocoon," describing his inability to write. "The words were there, but they wouldn't come out."
He is making progress in both writing and reading. "I felt like a second-class citizen," he said. "I was ashamed. If my kids asked me for help to spell a word, I would tell them I was busy."
Another student, Michael Ryan, a security guard, said, "I couldn't read anything, not even street signs." He said, "I couldn't even write my own name."
In Dublin today, about 500 people are in programs to overcome illiteracy, and dozens more are on waiting lists. Another 5,500 people are being helped by programs elsewhere in the country, yet they represent only a small fraction of the people who need instruction, officials say.
Inez Bailey, director of the nongovernmental National Adult Literacy Agency, said the Government has for decades reflected the public attitude toward the problem: denial.
In recent years, she said, Government funding for literacy programs has increased to about $7 million, and the Government has stated that its goal is to provide $15 million. Even that, Ms. Bailey said, would help only about 1 percent of the people who are functionally illiterate.
Ms. Bailey said, "The word illiterate is not a P.C. word. But the problem still passes from one generation to the next."
The principal reason for the high rate in Ireland, she added, is that in the 1950's and 1960's, with a depressed economy and large emigration, the country did not have the money to provide remedial reading programs for students, who could leave school legally at age 15.
Class sizes were large, one teacher to 50 pupils, Ms. Bailey said, and teachers had no time to devote to slow learners.
Today, 44 percent of the nation's illiterates are between age 40 and 65.
Mary McMahon, 47, recalled that in her youth, in a Dublin inner-city school, "I don't think the teachers cared whether you learned or not. There were 56 in the class. If you were brainy, they took an interest." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (89%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AB C COMMUNICATIONS CORP (92%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND; POLAND; IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (89%); 

SUBJECT: READING AND WRITING SKILLS LITERACY RATES (92%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); 

PERSON: BAILEY, INEZ; CLARITY, JAMES F INEZ BAILEY (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



562 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2881 words

HEADLINE: Hassan II of Morocco Dies at 70; A Monarch Oriented to the West

BYLINE: By JOSEPH R. GREGORY 

 BODY:
King Hassan II, who ruled Morocco for 38 years, acted as a go-between in Egyptian-Israeli efforts to make peace and prolonged the life of his 300-year-old dynasty in an era when monarchies in Libya, Egypt, Iraq and Iran fell to socialist revolutions or the force of militant Islam, died yesterday in Rabat. He was 70.
The cause of death was a heart attack, Crown Prince Sidi Mohammed, the King's eldest son and successor, announced on state television. 
 The King, who had been in fragile health since he was hospitalized in the United States four years ago for lung problems, had been admitted earlier in the day to the Avicenne hospital in Rabat, the capital, with an acute lung infection, according to a statement by the palace. Moroccan television said the funeral would be Sunday. The White House said that President Clinton planned to attend.
As King, Sidi Mohammed is expected to continue his father's policies, including close ties with Washington and active pursuit of peace in the Middle East.
The United States and its allies considered King Hassan one of the most Western-oriented of Arab leaders, a ruler who outmaneuvered Islamic militants in his country and stood out among his peers for his openness to rapprochement with Israel.
Through the years he acted as an intermediary in Middle East diplomacy, helping to arrange a visit to Jerusalem in 1977 by Egypt's President, Anwar el-Sadat, and during the 1980's, meeting with the Israeli leaders Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon Peres when other Arabs shunned them.
A master at managing Morocco's complex quilt of ethnic and ideological forces, he maintained a hold on power that was by turns iron-fisted and deftly offhand. He survived half a dozen assassination attempts and uprisings.
On one occasion, he intimidated the leader of rebel troops by looking him in the eye and reciting the first verse of the Koran. Another time, when pilots of his air force attacked his Boeing 727 jetliner, the King, himself a pilot, seized the radio and shouted, "Stop firing! The tyrant is dead!" -- fooling the rebels into breaking off their attack.
The heir to the Alawite dynasty, which claimed direct descent from the Prophet Mohammed and ruled the Sharifian empire of the Western Sahara, Hassan II was the author of Morocco's first Constitution. But he was at heart an autocrat, and democracy waxed and waned at his pleasure.
He tolerated opposition parties and a relatively free press that could offer opinions on policy matters. But criticism of the monarchy was forbidden, and his ruthlessness in crushing opponents was criticized by human rights groups.
Economic and political reform proceeded steadily through his years in power. Though the pace was slower than his critics would have liked, said William Zartman, director of African Studies at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, many would agree that the country was better off during the final years of his reign than it was when he came to power.
His success lay in an ability to be different things to different people. He kept Morocco's elite content with royal patronage and instituted market-oriented reforms that improved the lives of the urban middle class. He used his position as "Commander of the Faithful" to woo the rural peasantry, quadruple the number of mosques and build the world's largest, the Great Mosque of Hassan the II. Completed in 1993, the 54-acre complex was built on the edge of the sea near Casablanca, with a tower more than 650 feet tall and equipped with a laser that beamed at night toward Mecca.
"He had deep understanding from the early days of the tribal mentality of Morocco and the importance of the throne as a unifying force," said Robert H. Pelletreau, a former Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs, who knew the King well. "He was a superb student, and he could be exceedingly charming."
Moroccans said of King Hassan that he had "baraka," or "blessedness," an Arabic expression for a charismatic person blessed with divine protection. Yet when he ascended the throne on Feb. 26, 1961, most observers expected him to fail.
 
Worked With Father To Buttress Monarchy
Moulay Hassan ben Mohammed Alaoui was born on July 9, 1929, the oldest of six children of Sultan Sidi Mohammed ben Youssef. Most of Morocco was then a protectorate of France, except for sections governed by Spain in the northwest and southern coast and the city of Tangier, an international zone.
As World War II unfolded, resistance to colonial rule grew. After the fall of France, the Free French forces promised independence if Morocco would cooperate in the war against the Axis, a promise that Paris proved unwilling to keep.
After the war, tension rose between the Sultan and the French, but the young Prince Moulay Hassan was educated as befitted the heir of two traditions: He attended the imperial college at Rabat, where instruction was in Arabic and French. Later he earned a law degree from the University of Bordeaux and served in the French Navy aboard the battleship Jeanne d'Arc.
But his father's agitation for Moroccan self-government continued, and in 1953 the French forced the Sultan into exile. In 1954 and 1955, as rioting and guerrilla warfare increased, Prince Moulay's father regained his title, and the following year, Morocco won independence.
Prince Moulay worked with his father, now Mohammed V, to maintain the monarchy's authority during a time of social discontent and the conflicting expectations of those who fought for Moroccan independence.
In 1957, he became the commander in chief of the Royal Moroccan Army, which was splintered between officers who had been loyal to the French and the former rebels. Prince Moulay kept the military occupied with civilian projects, and led it to victory against rebel Berber tribesmen in the Rif mountains in 1958.
But in the shantytowns of Rabat, Casablanca and other cities, opposition simmered against the royal house. Though the monarchy looked to Paris and Washington for financial support, it needed to placate the leftist opposition. Declaring neutrality in the cold war, the Prince made overtures to Moscow and accepted Soviet military aid. "As an Islamic people," he told The Associated Press in 1961, "we have the right to practice bigamy. We can wed East and West and be faithful to both."
Such comments caused consternation in Western capitals. So did the reputation of the young Prince, whom the Western press often portrayed as a playboy who liked gambling and actresses and was overly concerned with his wardrobe.
After Mohammed V died of heart failure following what was expected to be a minor operation, Prince Moulay, who had been named Prime Minister in 1960, moved quickly to establish his rule. His Constitution, which was ratified in 1962, guaranteed freedom of the press and of religion, and created an elected legislature.
But the new Parliament, fractured by bitter rivalries, proved ineffectual. The new King retained the power to name the Prime Minister, disband the legislature and control the army.
In the mid-1960's, student agitation led to a wave of rioting and arrests. Opposition figures fled abroad or were imprisoned; some were executed. In 1965 Mehdi Ben Barka, a prominent nationalist and opposition leader, was kidnapped in Paris and never seen again.
The King's right-hand man, the Minister of Interior, Mohammed Oufkir, was linked to the disappearance, but the case was never pressed.
In June of that year, Hassan dissolved Parliament and instituted a state of emergency, wielding absolute power until a new Constitution was adopted in 1970. The Constitution restored limited parliamentary government, but discontent simmered amid continuing poverty and official corruption.
 
How He Overcame Two Deadly Coups
On July 10, 1971, King Hassan invited some 400 prominent Moroccans, diplomats and other guests to his seaside palace of Skhirat near Rabat to celebrate his 42d birthday. The festivities ended in a burst of gunfire as more than 1,000 mutinous troops attacked the palace, hurling grenades and spraying the grounds with small-arms fire.
Nearly 100 guests were killed and more than 125 wounded. The King hid in a bathroom.
When the firing died down, he re-emerged to find himself face to face with one of the rebel commanders. Keeping eye contact, he recited the opening verse of the Koran, and the rebel knelt and kissed his hand. Loyal troops crushed the revolt, killing more than 150 rebels and capturing 900 others, many of them young military cadets.
A dozen high-ranking, conservative officers were executed. Mohammed Oufkir was named Minister of Defense.
A little more than 12 months later, on Aug. 16, 1972, the King was returning from Paris aboard his private Boeing 727 when it encountered an unscheduled escort of four Royal Moroccan Air Force F-5 fighters. As the Boeing approached Rabat's airport, the fighters fired on the plane, knocking out an engine and scoring other hits.
The Boeing landed safely, but the renegade pilots continued to strafe the runway until Hassan radioed them, saying the King had been killed. The rebels broke off the attack. Within hours, key participants in the coup were arrested and shot.
One of their leaders proved to be General Oufkir, who apparently had been secretly involved in the earlier attack on the palace. According to official reports, the general committed suicide, but his body was supposedly found with several wounds. His widow and six children were placed under house arrest and were not released until February 1991, in an amnesty marking the King's 30 years in power.
 
Uniting Moroccans Over Western Sahara
As the 1970's unfolded, the King took several steps to damp domestic turmoil. In 1973 he put through measures to increase Moroccan ownership and employment in companies doing business in Morocco and also redistributed farmland owned by foreigners to rural peasants.
"He alternated very cleverly between the kinds of reforms that would be popular with the people and the kinds of reforms popular with the ruling elite and in doing so was popular with both," said Mr. Pelletreau, the former American diplomat.
In November 1975, in a move that would unite Moroccans against a common foe, Hassan reasserted his country's authority over the Western Sahara, a region claimed by both Morocco and Mauritania but still officially under Spanish administration, by trucking some 350,000 civilians under army escort to the region, where they staged a march.
The move help secure Morocco's claim but ignited a war with guerrillas of the Polisario Front, who had been fighting for independence from Spain. Libya and Algeria supported the guerrillas in their war against the Moroccan Army. In 1984, the King signed an accord with Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi that ended Libyan backing for the insurgents. Algeria, plagued by its own domestic problems, could give them only minimal support. Militarily, Morocco eventually triumphed, agreeing to a cease-fire with Polisario in 1991 that left the country in control of most the region.
The Polisario Front continues to hang on, but the United Nations is scheduling a referendum in March to determine the future of the region's 300,000 people.
 
Seen as Bridge To the Israelis
King Hassan was adept at managing Arab-Israeli relations, and he liked to say he viewed Morocco's Jewish population, which numbers around 8,000, as a bridge between Israelis and Arabs. During World War II his father, Mohammed V, had defied the Axis and protected his country's Jews. In 1956, the year of Moroccan independence, there were about 275,000 Jews in Morocco. Most were allowed to emigrate to Israel, Europe and elsewhere.
During the Arab-Israeli wars of 1967 and 1973, King Hassan contributed a nominal number of troops to support Egypt and Syria. Nevertheless, he kept his channels open with Israel.
In 1982 he was the host of a meeting of Arab leaders in Fez where he pushed through agreement on a peace plan that called for the creation of a Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital but implicitly recognized Israel's right to exist. The plan, though rejected by Israel, laid the groundwork for the King to meet with Prime Minister Peres in 1986, a meeting that caused the King to be criticized by Arab leaders. He responded by saying they had neither the ability to make war on Israel nor the willingness to make peace.
In September 1993, Morocco gave de facto recognition to Israel by welcoming Prime Minister Rabin, marking the first official visit by an Israeli leader to an Arab nation other than Egypt.
Despite such bold gestures, he was careful to play both sides of a conflict when necessary. After the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990, he sent 1,300 troops to Saudi Arabia, a gesture that pleased the West. At the time he expressed sympathy for the plight of Iraqi suffering under United Nations sanctions and ordered members of the Moroccan royal family to supervise the collection of supplies to ease their plight.
 
Gradual Freedom And Continuing Poverty
Despite aid from the West, sporadic reform efforts, and an estimated $2 billion a year sent home by Moroccans working abroad, the economic situation during the 1990's remained difficult for most of Morocco's 25 million people, two-thirds of whom are under the age of 25.
In the census of 1994, the urban population exceeded the rural population for the first time. Unrest generally declined in the cities, where most of the economic reforms were concentrated. Although unemployment remained a problem and the strains of a relatively slow pace of development continued, political freedom gradually increased. In the early 1990's, pressure from human rights groups reduced the number of political prisoners and reports of incidents of torture declined.
In recent years, the King pushed his version of "Hassanian democracy," which has widened political freedom while retaining the decisive power of the King. After elections last year, in which leftist parties gained the largest bloc of seats, the King appointed an old leftist adversary, Abdurrahman Youssufi, as Prime Minister, but the new Government has been widely criticized for failing to fulfill election promises to deal with poverty and other social problems.
Like his father, the Crown Prince comes to the throne with the reputation of a playboy. At 35, he is still single in a society that emphasizes family ties. He was educated in France, where he received a degree in law and studied international relations. In addition to Arabic and French, he speaks Spanish and English. In recent years, as illness caused the King to withdraw progressively from active public life, the Crown Prince began to take a more active role in public as second in command of the Moroccan military and in helping to direct Government aid to the poor.
In February the King sent the Crown Prince as his representative to the funeral of King Hussein of Jordan. With Sidi Mohammed's accession to the throne, his younger brother Moulay Rashid will become Crown Prince.
In addition to his two sons, the King is survived by his wife, Lalla Latifa, a commoner who is officially described as the Mother of the Royal Children, and three daughters.
Palace officials say the transition will bring no change in key Moroccan policies, including the longstanding alliance with the United States and strong support for peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors. The aides also said Sidi Mohammed would continue his father's policy of insisting on Moroccan sovereignty over the disputed territory of the Western Sahara.
Nonetheless, the Crown Prince is expected to take his distance from some of his father's closest advisers, principally the Interior Minister, Driss Basri, who in his 20 years in that post has been associated with hard-line policies toward domestic opposition from both the left and the Islamic fundamentalists, who have been excluded from forming parties to compete in elections.
Aides to King Hassan said recently that Sidi Mohammed was likely to move hard-liners in his father's entourage aside in effort to accelerate democratic reforms that his father had initiated in recent years.
Despite his moves toward democracy, throughout his reign King Hassan remained jealous of preserving the symbols of his monarchy. He refused, for instance, to abandon the practice of having his subjects show their fealty by kissing his hand, even though advisers urged him to end it.
Whether he donned a business suit to meet with Western leaders or appeared in traditional white robes to preside over religious ceremonies, the King was a leader of commanding presence, an eloquent orator in Arabic who spoke excellent French and capable English.
"His golf outings were the picture of an Oriental potentate," recalled Mr. Pelletreau, the diplomat. "He would be accompanied by a vast entourage. If he wanted to sit, chairs would appear, and his guests would be offered sherbet."
Through intelligence, charm and cunning, he steered an absolute monarchy into the modern world. "He sheltered Morocco from the various political winds that blew across the Arab world and caused such turmoil in other countries," Mr. Pelletreau said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: King Hassan II of Morocco speaking on his birthday in July. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); In 1966 Morocco's Crown Prince, Sidi Mohammed, in his first military uniform, sat next to his father, King Hassan II, at a military parade marking the anniversary of Morocco's independence from France. (United Press International)(pg. A13)
 
Map of Morocco showing location of Rabat: King Hassan II died in a hospital in Rabat, Morocco's capital. (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOROCCO (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); WESTERN SAHARA (79%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (50%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOROCCO; ISRAEL; EGYPT; EGYPT (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOROCCO (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); WESTERN SAHARA (79%); FRANCE (50%); MARYLAND, USA (50%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MOROCCO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); ASSASSINATION (79%); HEART DISEASE (76%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (76%); RELIGION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); AIR FORCES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: GREGORY, JOSEPH R; SIDI MOHAMMED (CROWN PRINCE); HASSAN II (KING) BILL CLINTON (79%); SHIMON PERES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



563 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: THE KENNEDY MEMORIAL: THE SERVICE;
Doors Closed, Kennedys Offer Their Farewells

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
In the simple stone church where his mother brought him to worship as a small boy, John F. Kennedy Jr., the country's most famous namesake, was remembered as a young man who shouldered the ponderous weight of legend and was still "becoming the person he would be" in a memorial Mass yesterday that united generations and ideologies.
On a hot, sunshiny morning, an eclectic mix of some 350 mourners -- from the eminent figures of his father's Administration to his childhood hero, Muhammad Ali, to President Clinton to many young friends who lived beyond the circumspection of public life -- gathered in somber attire at the Church of St. Thomas More on the Upper East Side to honor Mr. Kennedy and his wife, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy. 
 His uncle, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, delivered an affecting eulogy laced with eloquence and wit in which he said that Mr. Kennedy, as the only son of the 35th President of the United States, "seemed to belong not only to our family, but to the American family. The whole world knew his name before he did." Text, page B4.
Speaking of the still embryonic stage of his nephew's career, the Senator said: "He had only just begun. There was in him a great promise of things to come."
When the Senator finished the 10-minute tribute, Caroline Kennedy, the only sibling of Mr. Kennedy, stood up and hugged him, people who were at the Mass said.
Wyclef Jean, the lead singer of the hip-hop group the Fugees, apparently a favorite of Mr. Kennedy's, was chosen as the soloist for the ceremony and sang the Jimmy Cliff reggae song "Many Rivers to Cross."
The public claim to the Kennedys was evident in the hundreds of people who clotted the streets around the compact Roman Catholic church on East 89th Street between Madison and Park Avenues hours before the service began at 11 A.M., contained by metal police fences and sawhorses, drawn by boundless curiosity and grief to participate tangentially in a ritual of uncommon frequency for the nation's most indelible political family. Mostly in casual attire, they wore broad-brimmed hats and propped newspapers over their heads as shields against the beating sun in the 85-degree heat.
At the funeral of Mr. Kennedy's mother, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, in 1994, the audio of the service was played over television and radio, but no such arrangements were made for yesterday's Mass. But the fact that the onlookers could see little and hear nothing seemed irrelevant to their compulsion to be there.
Later, Senator Kennedy's office provided a transcript of his comments and others who attended the service provided details.
The death of Mr. Kennedy, 38, along with his 33-year-old wife and her sister Lauren G. Bessette, 34, in the July 16 nighttime crash of the small plane he was piloting over the Atlantic Ocean, has been a weeklong and heartfelt absorption for a nation now both wearied and practiced in mourning Kennedys, and this formal tribute was the culmination, a day after the ashes of the three were poured into the restless waters that claimed them.
The mourners at the invitation-only Mass included a preponderance of family members and political figures. President Clinton attended with Hillary Rodham Clinton and their daughter, Chelsea. Caroline Kennedy came with her husband, Edwin Schlossberg, and their three children. There was Ethel Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Maurice Tempelsman, the longtime companion of Mrs. Onassis, three Kennedy sisters -- Jean Kennedy Smith, Patricia Kennedy Lawford and Eunice Kennedy Shriver -- and Maria Shriver, Mr. Kennedy's cousin, and her husband, Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Among the others were Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, Senators Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and John Kerry of Massachusetts, and former Senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming. From Mr. Kennedy's father's era were Robert S. McNamara, the former Secretary of Defense, the economist John Kenneth Galbraith, the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. and Theodore C. Sorensen, a special counsel to President Kennedy.
The altar of the church was plainly decorated with white roses, said people who attended. Before the service began, Anne Freeman, the mother of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette, read from "Facts of the Faith," a compilation of sermons by Henry Scott Holland: "Death is nothing at all. It does not count. I have only slipped away."
Caroline Kennedy read 11 lines from Prospero's speech in Shakespeare's "The Tempest," that began, "Our revels now are ended," and concluded, "We are such stuff as dreams are made on, and our little life is rounded with a sleep."
Carole Radziwill, daughter of Lee Radziwill, Mrs. Onassis's younger sister, read a passage from "The Book of Ruth," and her brother, Anthony, recited Psalm 23, "The Lord Is My Shepherd." The director Mike Nichols, who at one time escorted Mrs. Onassis around New York, attended with his wife, Diane Sawyer, and read from Revelation 21:17. The gospel for the Mass was Luke 21.
The Rev. Charles O'Byrne, who presided at the 1996 wedding of Mr. Kennedy and Ms. Bessette, gave the homily, and spoke about the joy of participating in the preparations for the secretive ceremony that was held off the coast of Georgia.
The Clintons presented the Kennedy and Bessette families with albums of photographs of Mr. Kennedy and his wife when they visited the White House in 1998.
Hamilton South, a friend of the Bessette family, eulogized Carolyn Bessette Kennedy by praising her caring ways and the simple aspects of her style and approach to life. He talked about how she would call her friends on the phone and after a prolonged conversation would apologize for talking only about herself when in fact it was all about them.
In his eulogy, Senator Kennedy thanked the Clintons for their presence and told of how, when they once asked John Kennedy Jr. what he would do if he were ever elected President, Mr. Kennedy had replied, "I guess the first thing is call up Uncle Teddy and gloat."
"I loved that," the Senator said. "It was so like his father."
There were many substrata to Mr. Kennedy's life -- fame, power, wealth and expectation -- but the eulogy centered on his unpretentious nature and zest for life and adventure, on how he "lived as if he were unrecognizable" and "thought politics should be an integral part of our popular culture, and that popular culture should be an integral part of politics."
The Senator continued: "He and his bride have gone to be with his mother and father, where there will never be an end to love. He was lost on that troubled night, but we will always wake for him, so that his time, which was not doubled, but cut in half, will live forever in our memory, and in our beguiled and broken hearts."
Senator Kennedy's voice cracked at two junctures, when he spoke affectionately of Mr. Kennedy and his wife, surrounded by Caroline Kennedy, her family and other relatives, sailing together on Nantucket Sound and when, near the end, he said: "We dared to think, in that other Irish phrase, that this John Kennedy would live to comb gray hair, with his beloved Carolyn by his side. But like his father, he had every gift but length of years."
After Mr. Kennedy's eulogy, the O Freedom Gospel Choir sang, "Amazing Grace," and the 90-minute service came to an end.
The mourners began to arrive shortly after 9 A.M., passing through intense security, and beneath sharpshooters positioned in the tower of the church and atop adjacent buildings. Residents who lived in the tall apartment houses across the street from the church were asked to stay away from their windows.
From the early morning into mid-afternoon, the neighborhood for blocks around the church was at a standstill, with streets shut down and traffic diverted. Television camera trucks, limousines and police cars commanded all the available parking spots. A number of businesses along Madison Avenue, including banks and boutiques, simply did not open for business because no patrons could get to them.
The 126-year-old Gothic-style church, with just 15 rows of pews graced with crimson velvet cushions, is where Jacqueline Kennedy worshiped with her children after she moved to a nearby Fifth Avenue apartment after the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963.
The service was a memorial rather than a funeral Mass, because a funeral Mass demands that the remains of the deceased be present. Though mention was made of Lauren Bessette at yesterday's service, a separate candlelight Mass for her is scheduled for this evening in Greenwich, Conn., where she and her sisters grew up and her mother and stepfather live.
On Thursday, as soon as people learned of the plans for the memorial Mass at St. Thomas More, visitors flocked to the church to deposit flowers, stuffed animals and affectionate messages outside its entranceway, much as they had all week long on the sidewalk in front of the TriBeCa apartment building where Mr. Kennedy and his wife lived. The expressions of remorse were cleared away from the church Thursday night in preparation for the Mass.
Lisa Morey, 32, spent all night traveling from Cleveland to stand outside during the service. She came with her 10-month-old child, her sister and their mother. "The saddest thing about this is the unfulfilled potential," Ms. Morey said, "and he didn't live long enough to be a father himself. I think he embodied everything that was good about society."
After the Mass, the mourners filed out of the church and walked somberly and often arm in arm up Madison Avenue two blocks to the Convent of the Sacred Heart, which Caroline Kennedy attended as a child, for a luncheon reception. Caroline Kennedy and her family rode in a limousine to the school, and as they passed the hushed crowd waving at her, she rolled down her window and, tears in her eyes, waved back.
Once all the guests had left, 89th Street was reopened by the police and onlookers crowded in front of the small church. Some stuck fresh bouquets and notes of condolence into the closed black metal gate. For some time, they just stood there, not wanting to leave.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mourners gathered outside the Church of St. Thomas More after yesterday's memorial Mass. The service was attended by about 350 people. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Maxwell Kennedy, center, a son of Robert F. Kennedy, and his wife, Vicki, walking from the church to a reception two blocks away. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B4); Caroline Kennedy, the last member of the First Family of 1961-63, leaving the Church of St. Thomas More with her daughter Tatiana. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHURCH OF ST THOMAS MORE (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: CHURCH OF ST THOMAS MORE (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (73%); TRANSCRIPTS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); RAP MUSIC (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, JOHN F JR; KENNEDY, CAROLYN BESSETTE; BESSETTE, LAUREN; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); ALI, MUHAMMAD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KLEINFIELD, N R TED KENNEDY (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



564 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Serbian Opposition Leaders Underwhelm Large Rally

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: PANCEVO, Serbia, July 23

 BODY:
Several thousand citizens gathered in the rain this evening for a rally that displayed all the problems the Serbian opposition is having in its effort to oust President Slobodan Milosevic.
In this opposition-run industrial town northeast of Belgrade, the rally was small, decent, quiet, polite and boring.
Nearly 20 speakers, representing various parts of the umbrella Alliance for Change, took their shots at Mr. Milosevic in a rambling drone that caused little excitement in a crowd packed into a downtown square of the town, which was badly damaged by NATO bombing and where toxic chemicals have affected health and many are unemployed. 
 The only request the rally organizers made of the crowd was to come to future demonstrations and to ask their friends to come, as well.
The political star of the Alliance, the Democratic Party leader, Zoran Djindjic, was absent, abroad again. The best speaker of the night was his deputy, Slobodan Vuksanovic, a young politician with a slashing style who accused the regime of fearing elections, misusing its patriotism and stealing the nation's wealth.
"Are they authorities or are they thieves?" Mr. Vuksanovic demanded. "They build houses in Dedinje," a fancy part of Belgrade, "and don't pay our soldiers."
But the most popular figure by far was the slight, ill and fragile Drago slav Avramovic, about 80 years old, who is revered by Serbs for having drawn up the economic plan that finally eliminated hyperinflation in January 1994.
Mr. Avramovic gave a short, sober speech, gracefully apologizing for the many that had come before, and promising a new Government that would introduce complete democracy, freedom of speech and the press, and an open, Western-style economy, with less taxation and fewer bureaucrats and police.
"Fifty years ago we were close to Austria economically, and now we are close to Albania," he said. He was cheered loudly, seeming to represent the honest, well-educated, altruistic expert that many Yugoslavs want leading their country just now.
The advantage is that Mr. Avramovic, a former World Bank economist, is not much of a politician, but that is the problem, too, faced with an organized, softly authoritarian regime like Mr. Milosevic's.
As Vladimir Goati, a political science professor, said today in an interview: "Avramovic is too old to be dangerous to anyone in the opposition. He couldn't stay in power very long."
Mr. Avramovic himself is resisting American pressure to take a leading political role in the effort to unify the opposition, still badly split between the Alliance and the larger, more populist Serbian Renewal Movement of Vuk Draskovic.
And Mr. Draskovic is reluctant to give up much of the spotlight. It will turn again on him on Saturday when he holds his second rally in the southern town of Nis, where some 100 army reservists renewed demonstrations today for their back pay for their service in Kosovo.
Mr. Draskovic is more of a rabblerouser, but he, too, is walking carefully, preaching against the dangers of "civil war" and putting less emphasis on the immediate resignation of Mr. Milosevic.
"The opposition is divided and dispersed," said Jasmina Stojanov of Pancevo radio, a respected independent station threatened with a new politicized demand for a $40,000 license fee that it cannot afford. "I don't think people can believe easily any more in either Draskovic or Djindjic," who were allies in the 1996-97 protests against Mr. Milosevic but who soon split.
One reason for Mr. Draskovic's caution may be the increasingly sharp warnings from the Yugoslav Army leadership that opposition protests that seek to overthrow the elected Government of the country may be crushed.
Tonight Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic, the commander of the Third Army, which fought in Kosovo, told state media that protests are leading to "civil war, and the army is against it." He said the Yugoslav Army "will give its unconditional support to the state institutions and their legally elected representatives, from the lowest officials to the President of the republic."
In perhaps his most chilling comment, General Pavkovic said: "It is the duty of the army to defend the country from its enemies, both external and internal." He continued: "The leaders of the opposition cannot accept that power is won in elections, and they want to win it on the streets."
He and the parliamentary speaker, Dragan Tomic, who was speaking in Raska, attacked the former army leader Momcilo Perisic, who has come out against Mr. Milosevic, accusing him of politicizing the army.
"General Perisic is saying the same things" as British Prime Minister Tony Blair and NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana, Mr. Tomic said. "When you find it in wheat, they call this chaff, and people call it treason."
In Belgrade today, university students threw thousands of leaflets from downtown buildings calling for the ouster of Mr. Milosevic.
"Resistance is the answer. There will be no other way," the leaflets read. "This is not a system. This is a disease. Resistance!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An opposition rally in the industrial city of Pancevo, Serbia, drew several thousand people yesterday, but generated little excitement. Speakers for the Alliance for Change denounced President Slobodan Milosevic. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); AUSTRIA (58%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; PANCEVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); AUSTRIA (58%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); RIOTS (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ARMIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); BACK PAY (50%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); AVRAMOVIC, DRAGOSLAV; DRASKOVIC, VUK; ERLANGER, STEVEN SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



565 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Quietly Resuming Aid for Some Anti-Milosevic Groups

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 23

 BODY:
After a month of demonstrations throughout Serbia against President Slobodan Milosevic, the Administration quietly decided this week to lift restrictions on support for Serbian opposition groups and free aid for opposition political parties, the independent media, lawyers and other groups promoting democracy in Yugoslavia.
Senior Administration officials have been debating how to renew and increase support for these groups without violating the sanctions imposed against Yugoslavia that forbade any support other than emergency aid as long as Mr. Milosevic remained president, according to an Administration official. 
 The legal counsel at the State Department determined that it had the authority to grant waivers case by case for projects supporting opposition groups within Serbia.
"Our lawyers and State Department lawyers agreed last week that we could provide assistance and go forward with the programs for independent media, opposition parties and trade unions," said John Tennant, deputy assistant administrator at the United States Agency for International Development.
On Tuesday, the State Department began notifying aid groups that their Government financing was no longer blocked and advising them to revive their programs. Department officials said the programs would receive about $4 million.
"It would have been far more helpful if the Administration had addressed this early on when the opposition to Milosevic was developing," said Morton Abramowitz, a retired ambassador and a board member of the National Endowment for Democracy, one of the groups whose funds had been blocked. "But obviously I'm glad the freeze is over because the opposition is in dire need."
Both the Administration and Congress intend to present proposals next week to help the Serbian opposition. Senator Jesse Helms, Republican from North Carolina and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, plans to introduce legislation that would provide $100 million over the next two years "to promote democracy and civil society," as well as to increase radio broadcasts by Voice of America and Radio Free Europe into Yugoslavia.
Next week President Clinton will make his own proposals at a gathering of world leaders in Sarajevo to discuss the reconstruction of the Balkans, according to an Administration official.
"We want to see Milosevic gone, we want to see new leadership in Serbia, we want to help the opposition to that end," said the official.
Congress was consulted before the Administration freed the funds this week, according to Mr. Tennant, to insure that there would be no objections to waiving the sanctions.
The consultations over the legal and political reverberations of support for the Serbian opposition became entangled in the larger policy debate of how to reconstruct the Balkans and delayed the final decision until this week, according to Paul McCarthy, who received a letter from the State Department on Tuesday authorizing him to being reviving his Balkan programs at the National Endowment for Democracy.
Like other aid officials, Mr. McCarthy refused to name the Serbian groups that would receive assistance through his group's programs, in order to protect them from possible reprisals by the Government of Mr. Milosevic.
The Administration financing will also go to Serbian groups supported by the National Democratic Institute and the International Republican Institute. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (54%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (54%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LAWYERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); LABOR UNIONS (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BECKER, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



566 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 5;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: THE KENNEDY MEMORIAL: THE SERVICE;
Doors Closed, Kennedys Offer Their Farewells

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
In the simple stone church where his mother brought him to worship as a small boy, John F. Kennedy Jr., the country's most famous namesake, was remembered as a young man who shouldered the ponderous weight of legend and was still "becoming the person he would be" in a memorial Mass yesterday that united generations and ideologies.
On a hot, sunshiny morning, an eclectic mix of some 350 mourners -- from the eminent figures of his father's Administration to his childhood hero, Muhammad Ali, to President Clinton to many young friends who lived beyond the circumspection of public life -- gathered in somber attire at the Church of St. Thomas More on the Upper East Side to honor Mr. Kennedy and his wife, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy. 
 His uncle, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, delivered an affecting eulogy laced with eloquence and wit in which he said that Mr. Kennedy, as the only son of the 35th President of the United States, "seemed to belong not only to our family, but to the American family. The whole world knew his name before he did." Text, page B4.
Speaking of the still embryonic stage of his nephew's career, the Senator said: "He had only just begun. There was in him a great promise of things to come."
When the Senator finished the 10-minute tribute, Caroline Kennedy, the only sibling of Mr. Kennedy, stood up and hugged him, people who were at the Mass said.
Wyclef Jean, the lead singer of the hip-hop group the Fugees, apparently a favorite of Mr. Kennedy's, was chosen as the soloist for the ceremony and sang the Jimmy Cliff reggae song "Many Rivers to Cross."
The public claim to the Kennedys was evident in the hundreds of people who clotted the streets around the compact Roman Catholic church on East 89th Street between Madison and Park Avenues hours before the service began at 11 A.M., contained by metal police fences and sawhorses, drawn by boundless curiosity and grief to participate tangentially in a ritual of uncommon frequency for the nation's most indelible political family. Mostly in casual attire, they wore broad-brimmed hats and propped newspapers over their heads as shields against the beating sun in the 85-degree heat.
At the funeral of Mr. Kennedy's mother, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, in 1994, the audio of the service was played over television and radio, but no such arrangements were made for yesterday's Mass. But the fact that the onlookers could see little and hear nothing seemed irrelevant to their compulsion to be there.
Later, Senator Kennedy's office provided a transcript of his comments and others who attended the service provided details.
The death of Mr. Kennedy, 38, along with his 33-year-old wife and her sister Lauren G. Bessette, 34, in the July 16 nighttime crash of the small plane he was piloting over the Atlantic Ocean, has been a weeklong and heartfelt absorption for a nation now both wearied and practiced in mourning Kennedys, and this formal tribute was the culmination, a day after the ashes of the three were poured into the restless waters that claimed them.
The mourners at the invitation-only Mass included a preponderance of family members and political figures. President Clinton attended with Hillary Rodham Clinton and their daughter, Chelsea. Caroline Kennedy came with her husband, Edwin Schlossberg, and their three children. There was Ethel Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Maurice Tempelsman, the longtime companion of Mrs. Onassis, three Kennedy sisters -- Jean Kennedy Smith, Patricia Kennedy Lawford and Eunice Kennedy Shriver -- and Maria Shriver, Mr. Kennedy's cousin, and her husband, Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Among the others were Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, Senators Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and John Kerry of Massachusetts, and former Senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming. From Mr. Kennedy's father's era were Robert S. McNamara, the former Secretary of Defense, the economist John Kenneth Galbraith, the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. and Theodore C. Sorensen, a special counsel to President Kennedy.
The altar of the church was plainly decorated with white roses, said people who attended. Before the service began, Anne Freeman, the mother of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette, read from "Facts of the Faith," a compilation of sermons by Henry Scott Holland: "Death is nothing at all. It does not count. I have only slipped away."
Caroline Kennedy read 11 lines from Prospero's speech in Shakespeare's "The Tempest," that began, "Our revels now are ended," and concluded, "We are such stuff as dreams are made on, and our little life is rounded with a sleep."
Carole Radziwill, daughter of Lee Radziwill, Mrs. Onassis's younger sister, read a passage from "The Book of Ruth," and her brother, Anthony, recited Psalm 23, "The Lord Is My Shepherd." The director Mike Nichols, who at one time escorted Mrs. Onassis around New York, attended with his wife, Diane Sawyer, and read from Revelation 21:17. The gospel for the Mass was Luke 21.
The Rev. Charles O'Byrne, who presided at the 1996 wedding of Mr. Kennedy and Ms. Bessette, gave the homily, and spoke about the joy of participating in the preparations for the secretive ceremony that was held off the coast of Georgia.
The Clintons presented the Kennedy and Bessette families with albums of photographs of Mr. Kennedy and his wife when they visited the White House in 1998.
Hamilton South, a friend of the Bessette family, eulogized Carolyn Bessette Kennedy by praising her caring ways and the simple aspects of her style and approach to life. He talked about how she would call her friends on the phone and after a prolonged conversation would apologize for talking only about herself when in fact it was all about them.
In his eulogy, Senator Kennedy thanked the Clintons for their presence and told of how, when they once asked John Kennedy Jr. what he would do if he were ever elected President, Mr. Kennedy had replied, "I guess the first thing is call up Uncle Teddy and gloat."
"I loved that," the Senator said. "It was so like his father."
There were many substrata to Mr. Kennedy's life -- fame, power, wealth and expectation -- but the eulogy centered on his unpretentious nature and zest for life and adventure, on how he "lived as if he were unrecognizable" and "thought politics should be an integral part of our popular culture, and that popular culture should be an integral part of politics."
The Senator continued: "He and his bride have gone to be with his mother and father, where there will never be an end to love. He was lost on that troubled night, but we will always wake for him, so that his time, which was not doubled, but cut in half, will live forever in our memory, and in our beguiled and broken hearts."
Senator Kennedy's voice cracked at two junctures, when he spoke affectionately of Mr. Kennedy and his wife, surrounded by Caroline Kennedy, her family and other relatives, sailing together on Nantucket Sound and when, near the end, he said: "We dared to think, in that other Irish phrase, that this John Kennedy would live to comb gray hair, with his beloved Carolyn by his side. But like his father, he had every gift but length of years."
After Mr. Kennedy's eulogy, the O Freedom Gospel Choir sang, "Amazing Grace," and the 90-minute service came to an end.
The mourners began to arrive shortly after 9 A.M., passing through intense security, and beneath sharpshooters positioned in the tower of the church and atop adjacent buildings. Residents who lived in the tall apartment houses across the street from the church were asked to stay away from their windows.
From the early morning into mid-afternoon, the neighborhood for blocks around the church was at a standstill, with streets shut down and traffic diverted. Television camera trucks, limousines and police cars commanded all the available parking spots. A number of businesses along Madison Avenue, including banks and boutiques, simply did not open for business because no patrons could get to them.
The 126-year-old Gothic-style church, with just 15 rows of pews graced with crimson velvet cushions, is where Jacqueline Kennedy worshiped with her children after she moved to a nearby Fifth Avenue apartment after the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963.
The service was a memorial rather than a funeral Mass, because a funeral Mass demands that the remains of the deceased be present. Though mention was made of Lauren Bessette at yesterday's service, a separate candlelight Mass for her is scheduled for this evening in Greenwich, Conn., where she and her sisters grew up and her mother and stepfather live.
On Thursday, as soon as people learned of the plans for the memorial Mass at St. Thomas More, visitors flocked to the church to deposit flowers, stuffed animals and affectionate messages outside its entranceway, much as they had all week long on the sidewalk in front of the TriBeCa apartment building where Mr. Kennedy and his wife lived. The expressions of remorse were cleared away from the church Thursday night in preparation for the Mass.
Lisa Morey, 32, spent all night traveling from Cleveland to stand outside during the service. She came with her 10-month-old child, her sister and their mother. "The saddest thing about this is the unfulfilled potential," Ms. Morey said, "and he didn't live long enough to be a father himself. I think he embodied everything that was good about society."
After the Mass, the mourners filed out of the church and walked somberly and often arm in arm up Madison Avenue two blocks to the Convent of the Sacred Heart, which Caroline Kennedy attended as a child, for a luncheon reception. Caroline Kennedy and her family rode in a limousine to the school, and as they passed the hushed crowd waving at her, she rolled down her window and, tears in her eyes, waved back.
Once all the guests had left, 89th Street was reopened by the police and onlookers crowded in front of the small church. Some stuck fresh bouquets and notes of condolence into the closed black metal gate. For some time, they just stood there, not wanting to leave.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a memorial service for John F. Kennedy Jr., Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette, referred incorrectly to Carole Radziwill. She is the daughter-in-law, not the daughter, of Lee Radziwill. (An article in some copies yesterday about a memorial service for Lauren Bessette repeated the error.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mourners gathered outside the Church of St. Thomas More after yesterday's memorial Mass. The service was attended by about 350 people. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Maxwell Kennedy, center, a son of Robert F. Kennedy, and his wife, Vicki, walking from the church to a reception two blocks away. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B4); Caroline Kennedy, the last member of the First Family of 1961-63, leaving the Church of St. Thomas More with her daughter Tatiana. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (73%); TRANSCRIPTS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); RAP MUSIC (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



567 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 12;Column 1;National Desk

LENGTH: 3549 words

HEADLINE: Frank M. Johnson Jr., Judge Whose Rulings Helped Desegregate the South, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Frank M. Johnson Jr., the legendary Federal jurist from Alabama whose historic civil rights decisions led to ostracism, cross-burnings and death threats but helped to change the face of the segregationist South in the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday. He was 80.
Judge Johnson fell last week and was hospitalized in Montgomery, Ala., but had returned home. He developed pneumonia, and died at home, said Wayne Greenhaw, a former reporter and a friend of the family. Burial will be on Tuesday in Haleyville, Ala. 
 The judge set standards in the South and often in the nation on voting rights, employment discrimination, affirmative action, the rights of mental patients to adequate care, and prison inmates to protection from inhuman conditions. But it was his knell for Jim Crow that was revered and reviled.
For anyone old enough to remember, the terrible images are indelible: the lynched black men, the firebombed churches, crowds shrieking hatred, a skirmish line of deputies on the Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala., peaceful marchers attacked with cattle prods and snarling police dogs in Birmingham, and a defiant Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama vowing to stand in the schoolhouse door to bar black children.
In that turbulent era, with the national conscience tottering and a few courageous men and women asking Americans to decide what kind of people they wanted to be, Judge Johnson loomed as a towering figure -- an uncompromising defender of civil liberties who came to be known as the Federal judiciary's most influential, innovative and controversial trial jurist.
He was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower a year after the Supreme Court's school-desegregation decision, Brown v. Board of Education. Judge Johnson, a Republican in the Democratic South, arrived on the bench in Montgomery, Ala., on Nov. 7, 1955, just as the storm of the civil rights movement was about to break.
Three weeks later, on Dec. 1, Rosa Parks, a black seamstress, refused to give up her seat on a Montgomery bus to a white rider, as required by city law. Her arrest prompted a bus boycott led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., a 26-year-old minister who had just moved to Montgomery for his first pastorate.
Judge Johnson's first major ruling was to join the majority on a three-judge panel that struck down the Montgomery bus-segregation law as unconstitutional, applying the principle of Brown v. Board of Education: that separate but equal facilities were inherent violations of the due process and equal-protection clauses of the 14th Amendment. He would use that reasoning again and again to create a broad mandate for racial justice in Alabama and across the South.
 
Many Crucial Decisions In Career on Two Courts
In a career that spanned almost four decades -- 24 years in Federal District Court in Alabama and 13 years on an appeals court with wide jurisdiction in the South -- Judge Johnson ordered the desegregation of public schools and colleges, parks, libraries, museums, depots, airports, restaurants, restrooms and other public places, as well as the Alabama State Police.
In 1965 he issued another historic order that allowed Dr. King to lead a 52-mile march from Selma to Montgomery to protest the denial of black voting rights. He did so after Alabama troopers clubbed marchers and used tear gas in a spectacle witnessed on television by a horrified nation, and after President Lyndon B. Johnson federalized the Alabama National Guard to protect the marchers.
When state courts failed to act forcefully to end racial violence -- as in the case of Viola Liuzzo, a white civil rights worker from Detroit who was shot to death while riding in a car with a black man -- Judge Johnson sent the killers to jail on Federal civil rights charges.
His justice was often innovative, even in minor cases. In one case, theft charges were brought against a white man and four black men that he had hired to help him steal peanuts from a Federal warehouse. The jury acquitted the white man but convicted the blacks. Judge Johnson, poker faced, sentenced the black men to 30 minutes in custody.
The judge's decisions were legion: He cleared the way for registering black voters, outlawed poll taxes, struck down state laws barring blacks and women from jury service, expanded the right of the poor to court-appointed lawyers, and issued the first court order for legislative reapportionment in the nation's history, anticipating the Supreme Court's one-man, one-vote rule.
In a landmark decision, Judge Johnson ordered Alabama to overhaul its crowded, understaffed mental hospitals, and detailed the rights of patients to decent care. Later, he found barbarous conditions in Alabama's prisons and threatened to close them unless they were made habitable and safe for inmates.
The judge's voluminous, well-researched opinions often spelled out detailed standards for his reforms, and in some desegregation and discrimination cases laid out specific quotas, timetables and goals that he called "affirmative action." He also appointed overseers to enforce such orders.
To many fellow white Alabama residents, he was a traitor. To segregationists, he became a despised symbol of Federal usurpation of states' rights. There were mountains of hate mail and scores of threatening telephone calls. Crosses were burned on his lawn twice. His mother's home was firebombed, although she was not hurt. For nearly two decades, Federal marshals protected the judge and his family.
Upstaged and outmaneuvered, Governor Wallace, who had been a law school classmate of Judge Johnson's at the University of Alabama, called him an "integratin', carpetbaggin', scalawaggin', baldfaced liar," and charged that he was trying to take over the executive powers of the Governor.
Name-calling aside, a national debate developed on whether unelected Federal judges were intruding too much in state affairs and assuming too many state and local powers. With Johnson appointees overseeing Alabama schools, prisons, mental hospitals and elections, the news media began calling the judge the real governor; some even said his rule was preferable to that of Mr. Wallace.
Judge Johnson insisted that he had intervened only when state and local officials failed to perform their constitutional duties. "My basic philosophy as a trial judge and as an appellate judge is to follow the law and the facts without regard to the consequences," he said once in a rare interview.
And to many, Judge Johnson was a hero. Dr. King called him a jurist who had "given true meaning to the word 'justice.' " Time magazine put his portrait on its cover in 1967 and called him "one of the most important men in America." In 1980, Bill Moyers devoted two installments of his television program "Bill Moyers' Journal" to the judge, and said he had "altered forever the face of the South," and "earned an enduring place in our history for his courage and wisdom."
In 1977, President Jimmy Carter nominated Judge Johnson to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The move was widely acclaimed, but the judge withdrew after undergoing heart surgery and facing a long recuperation. Two years later, Mr. Carter named him to a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
In 1995, three years after Judge Johnson shifted to senior judge status, President Clinton awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, saying that his "unwavering commitment to equality under law helped dismantle segregation and bring our nation closer to the ideals upon which it was founded."
 
A Fierce Independence Traced to Country Roots
A stern, forbidding figure on the bench, Judge Johnson -- tall, gaunt, with chiseled Lincolnesque features -- never raised his voice in court, and resisted wearing a black robe and did not use a gavel, saying he did not need such symbols of authority. He usually worked 11-hour days. Peering over half-spectacles, the judge, as one lawyer put it, "looked at you like he was aiming down a rifle barrel." But almost every lawyer who tried a case before him attested to his fairness.
Away from court the judge drank bourbon, chewed tobacco, went fishing and played golf, usually at an Air Force base rather than a country club where he had been shunned. Invitations to dinner were rare; there were snubs in church and on the street. But he seemed untroubled by Montgomery's ostracism. He retained a few close friends, including law clerks, and with a mischievous grin and a gravely drawl, he regaled them with the down-home wit of a back-country storyteller.
Frank Minis Johnson Jr. was a back-country boy, and it explained a great deal about his fierce independence and stoicism. He was born in the small town of Haleyville on Oct. 30, 1918, the oldest of seven children of Frank and Alabama Long Johnson, who were farmers and teachers. His father later was a probate judge and became the only Republican in the Alabama Legislature.
The Johnson roots were in Winston County, in the remote hills of northwest Alabama. Long a Republican stronghold, the county rejected slavery and tried to secede from the state after Alabama left the Union in 1861. Styling itself the "Free State of Winston," it tried to remain neutral in the Civil War, and eventually sent more men to fight for the Union than for the Confederacy.
Judge Johnson went to grade school and his first years of high school in Haleyville, but helped by his parents' suggestion, he entered the Gulf Coast Military Academy in Gulfport, Miss. After graduating in 1936, he worked for a year as a surveyor and married Ruth Jenkins of Winston County. He then attended a state college and a business school in Birmingham, studying accounting and bookkeeping, before enrolling at the University of Alabama as a junior in a pre-law program.
His wife also was a student at the university, and after graduating she helped to put him through the university's law school by teaching speech therapy in a high school. One of her students was Lurleen Burns, who later married George Wallace and served as Governor when term limits barred him from seeking re-election. Judge Johnson, who recalled Mr. Wallace as the most politically ambitious of his classmates, graduated at the top of his law school class in 1943.
He joined the Army as a private later that year, was commissioned as an infantry lieutenant and won a Bronze Star in the Normandy invasion as a platoon leader in Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army. Wounded twice in battle, he finished the war as a legal officer in England and was mustered out as a captain.
Back home in Alabama, he settled in Jasper, went into law practice and soon had a reputation as an excellent criminal defense lawyer. He also got involved in Republican politics. By 1952, he headed the Alabama Veterans for Eisenhower and became a state campaign manager in General Eisenhower's winning Presidential race.
His reward was an appointment in 1953 as the United States Attorney for Northern Alabama. He quickly established an impressive record, winning a peonage conviction, for example, against two white planters who had bribed Mississippi jailers to bind over black prisoners to work for them.
Two years later he was appointed Federal District Judge for Middle Alabama, a lifetime post. At the age of 37 he was the youngest member of the Federal judiciary and one of a small group of Southern judges -- Elbert P. Tuttle, John Minor Wisdom and J. Skelly Wright, among them -- who had been backed by Eisenhower's campaign manager and Attorney General, Herbert Brownell. Fair, strong-willed, independent and sensitive to civil rights issues, these men played major roles in the social and political transformation of the segregationist South.
Judge Johnson moved into a Spartan courtroom on the second floor of the post office in Montgomery, a Federal outpost that flew the Stars and Stripes rather than the Stars and Bars that topped the Statehouse seven blocks away. It was to be his court for the next 24 years.
Unlike higher court colleagues, Federal district judges are usually part of the local scene: their appointments traceable to community involvement and local politics, their professional and social lives intertwined with the local power structure. But to Montgomery, Judge Johnson was an outsider, a Republican from upstate Alabama who was out of step with old-boy traditions. And he was to remain so.
His first big case was the challenge to Montgomery's bus segregation law, set off by Rosa Parks. Joining Judge Richard T. Rives in a majority opinion, Judge Johnson struck down the law as a violation of constitutional rights to due process and equal protection, and cited the Supreme Court's 1954 ban on school segregation.
More than a vindication of Dr. King's bus boycott, it was the first time that the Brown ruling had been applied to a nonschool case, and it cleared the way for the eventual desegregation of public services across the South. It also became a key to Judge Johnson's judicial development: if a right applied in one area, he could apply it in another.
Over the next 20 years, as the civil rights struggle unfolded, Judge Johnson -- alone or as part of three-judge panels -- desegregated schools, parks, depots, airports, museums, libraries, restaurants, restrooms and other public places and services. In many of the decisions, his chief opponent was Mr. Wallace, who became an Alabama state judge in 1958 and Governor in 1962.
They collided first in 1959, when Mr. Wallace impounded records to impede black voter registration. The records had been subpoenaed by the Federal Civil Rights Commission, and Judge Johnson threatened to hold the Governor in contempt unless he released them. Mr. Wallace complied, but in a roundabout way that enabled him to remain publicly defiant.
In 1961, Judge Johnson found a pattern of deliberate discrimination -- trick tests and acts of intimidation -- against blacks in Alabama voter registration. His remedy was to order the registration of any black who measured up to the "least qualified white." The formula became standard in voting cases in the South and was incorporated by Congress into the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Removing other barriers to voting by blacks, Judge Johnson abolished Alabama's poll tax, and in 1962 was one of three judges who ordered the state Legislature reapportioned on a population rather than geographic basis. It was the first order of its kind.
 
Wallace Bans a March, But the Judge Acts Again
In 1965, Judge Johnson and Governor Wallace faced off again as thousands of civil rights marchers led by Dr. King descended on Selma for a protest march to Montgomery. Mr. Wallace banned the march as a peril to public safety and, in scenes televised to the nation, deputies at the Pettus Bridge attacked marchers with clubs, tear gas and electric-shock cattle prods.
The judge ordered both sides to stand down, then pondered whether to let the march proceed. The risks were high; Mr. Wallace would not guarantee protection. But after the National Guard was federalized, Judge Johnson gave the go-ahead, calling the right to march "commensurate with the enormity of the wrongs that are being protested." He added, "In this case, the wrongs are enormous."
It was a peaceful march, but the next day one participant, Viola Liuzzo, was shot and killed. In the ensuing criminal trial, a Lowndes County jury acquitted three Ku Klux Klansmen, even though an F.B.I. informer testified that he saw one defendant commit the murder.
The men were later tried on Federal charges of violating the slain woman's civil rights. When the jury declared itself deadlocked, Judge Johnson, speaking carefully to avoid a mistrial, exhorted it to try again, saying the evidence could not be clearer nor the jurors more intelligent and impartial. The men were then convicted and the judge sentenced them to the maximum term of 10 years in prison.
The Alabama State Police never had a black trooper until 1972, when Judge Johnson ordered an end to "blatant and continuous discrimination" and told the state to hire equal numbers of blacks and whites until blacks made up a quarter of the 650-member force.
But some of Judge Johnson's most important decisions did not involve race. In 1971, he found horrific conditions in Alabama's mental hospitals: thousands of warehoused, tranquilized patients, poorly fed, unbathed for days, living in reeking, overcrowded quarters, and no semblance of treatment. His sweeping changes detailed precise goals for care and treatment, including staff-patient ratios, and over the next six years he forced mental health budget increases, from $16 million to $86 million.
In 1974, he ruled that 14 residents of an Alabama school for the mentally ill had been sterilized in violation of their constitutional rights in the previous decade. He issued strict guidelines for such sterilizations, including court approval after hearings in which incompetent people were represented by lawyers.
In 1976, Judge Johnson found Alabama's prisons unfit for habitation, with inmates packed into unventilated cells, exposed to filth and rampant violence and deprived of adequate food, sanitation and medical care. "The state has a right to convict people for criminal offenses and send them to the penitentiary, but they were not sent there to be killed through starvation," he said.
The judge ordered broad changes that included "three wholesome and nutritious meals a day," "a bed off the floor," and "one toilet per 15 inmates." Mr. Wallace complained that the reforms were creating a "hotel atmosphere" in the prisons, but the judge retorted: "The elimination of conditions that will permit maggots in a patient's wounds for over a month before his death does not constitute the creation of a hotel atmosphere."
When Alabama officials failed to carry out the changes, Judge Johnson appointed a receiver to operate the prisons, and by the 1980's visitors reported dramatic improvements in sanitation, inmate education and professional standards.
After recovering from the heart surgery that forced him to withdraw as the nominee to head the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Judge Johnson returned to the bench. In a widely noted 1978 case, he ruled that Alabama State University had discriminated against whites in its hiring practices. It was the first time a Federal court had found a black institution guilty of bias against whites.
When he was elevated by Mr. Carter to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in Atlanta, he had jurisdiction in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. After a court reorganization, he later sat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which comprised Alabama, Florida and Georgia.
As an appellate jurist, he placed Alabama's mental health system under a receivership after concluding that the state had failed to comply with his orders. He also joined a decision that extended constitutional protections to illegal aliens, overturning $1,000 tuition fees imposed on each undocumented child by the school board in Tyler, Tex.
Judge Johnson also joined in reversing a lower court that had banned 44 textbooks from Alabama public schools in a suit by fundamentalist Christians, who contended that they promoted a godless, secular humanism. The textbooks -- in history, social studies and even home economics -- endorsed no views but tolerance, self-respect, maturity and self-reliance, he found.
 
First Person to Win Thurgood Marshall Honor
The judge, who stepped down in 1992, received the American Bar Association's first Thurgood Marshall Award in 1993, as the person "who most exemplifies Justice Marshall's spirit on behalf of protecting civil rights." In Montgomery, where Judge Johnson was once a pariah, the Federal courthouse was named in his honor.
In a 1989 address, Judge Johnson reflected on an era that had changed the South. "The civilizing function of a judge has been defined, I think, as 'the removal of a sense of injustice,' " he said. "I have come to the firm conclusion that the American people revere the concept of justice, and their conscience tells them to obey the law once they understand what it is."
The judge is survived by his wife, whom he married in 1938; a brother, James Noel Johnson, of Montgomery, and two sisters, Ellen Ruth Harvill of Montgomery and Mary Ann Bates of York, Ala.
He was the subject of three biographies. They are "Taming the Storm: The Life and Times of Frank M. Johnson Jr. and the South's Fight Over Civil Rights," by Jack Bass (Doubleday, 1993); "Judge Frank Johnson and Human Rights in Alabama," by Tinsley E. Yarbrough (University of Alabama Press, 1981), and "Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr.: A Biography," by Robert F. Kennedy Jr. (Putnam, 1978).
Mr. Kennedy, whose father was assassinated in 1968, went to Montgomery in 1977 to write about Mr. Wallace, but switched subjects and during a year in Alabama developed a close relationship with Frank and Ruth Johnson, whose adopted son, Johnny, had died in 1975 at the age of 28.
"I was awestruck," Mr. Kennedy said. "Here was a man who utterly vindicated my family's central notion that a single man can make a difference."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on July 24 about Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr. of Alabama, whose decisions helped to desegregate the South, misstated the sequence of events in a face-off with Governor George C. Wallace in 1965. Judge Johnson's order permitting a civil rights march came before President Lyndon B. Johnson federalized the National Guard, not afterward.
The article also referred incorrectly to Birmingham-Southern College, which Judge Johnson attended before the University of Alabama. It is private, not a state college.
The obituary also misstated the source of J. Skelly Wright's judicial appointment. A Democrat, he was a Truman appointee, not one of several judges backed by Herbert Brownell, who was President Eisenhower's Attorney General.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr., who was instrumental in helping to desegregate the South, in his chambers at the Federal Courthouse in Montgomery, Ala., in 1991. (Patricia Miklik); Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. led civil rights marchers from Selma to Montgomery, Ala., in 1965. A decision by Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr. allowed the march, which had been banned by Gov. George C. Wallace, who cited a concern for public safety. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (98%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ALABAMA, USA (98%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); DEATHS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); DUE PROCESS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); JUDGES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); MAMMALS (74%); DOGS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (71%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); ARRESTS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); BOYCOTTS (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999



568 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: The Rules

BYLINE: By Sylvia Nasar; Sylvia Nasar, the author of "A Beautiful Mind," reports on the economy for The Times.

 BODY:

BUILDING WEALTH
The New Rules for Individuals,
Companies, and Nations in
a Knowledge-Based Economy.
By Lester C. Thurow.
301 pp. New York:
HarperCollins Publishers. $27.50. 
 Lester C. Thurow's "Building Wealth: The New Rules for Individuals, Companies, and Nations in a Knowledge-Based Economy" looks like a stock market tip sheet and reads like a diet book. But despite the stacks of 20-, 50- and 100-dollar bills on the jacket and the breathless prose, it's not nearly as useful as either.
Thurow -- one of the few economists in America who are almost household names -- wants to be your guide to the New Economy. You know what he's referring to: It's global! It's chaotic! It's totally unpredictable! Don't bother picking a career. There are no careers. Don't even try to target your next product. Nobody knows where the profits will be. Forget about oil, gold, land, factories and all that other outmoded stuff that "for all of human history" has been the source of success. Suddenly, Thurow says, "knowledge is the new basis for wealth." Blithely ignoring the fact that know-how has always been a fuel of 20th-century capitalism, he adds dramatically, "This has never before been true."
Though it's high-tech, Thurow's New Economy is ruthlessly Darwinian, populated by a handful of supersuccesses and vast numbers of basket cases. He acknowledges that it is now the best of times in America, but hardly sees this as relevant. For him, prices and wages are always falling. Workers are always losing their jobs. Companies are always going out of business.
It's also a world without borders: "The third industrial revolution is moving us from national economies to a global economy." Nasty as things are now, Thurow promises they will get even nastier. "The transition from national to global is going to be far more turbulent than the transition from local to national" -- a pretty radical thought considering that mismanagement of the Old Economy produced not just the Great Depression but Hitler's Germany and Stalin's Russia.
The real problem, to Thurow's way of thinking -- he is an enthusiastic admirer of "empire builders" like the slaveholding Pharaohs -- is that nobody's in charge. National governments have long since lost the power to control their economies, he claims. That does not imply that politicians now have to pursue sound policies if their nations are to benefit from expanded trade and freer capital flows. It means we need a world government. Alas, Thurow adds without a hint of irony, Congress just won't go for it.
This is a sales pitch, not a serious argument. Where others might trot out hypotheses and hard evidence, Thurow reaches for metaphors and glib generalities.
NEVER mind. You don't read a diet book to learn science or history. You read it to learn how to get thin. Too bad the "new rules" Thurow is selling for building "new wealth pyramids" turn out to be a collection of truisms that are neither new nor stated in an interesting way. As Thurow himself notes, John D. Rockefeller figured out Rule 1 ("No one has ever become very rich by saving their money") long before Bill Gates. Yes, people do get rich by exploiting new opportunities.
Rule 13 is no better:
"Luck is necessary. Talent, drive and persistence by themselves aren't enough to get wealthy." Better be at the right place at the right time, Thurow advises.
Pretty thin stuff. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NEW ECONOMY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); DISMISSALS (63%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: LESTER C THUROW (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



569 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Dublin

BYLINE: By EMILY LAURENCE BAKER; EMILY LAURENCE BAKER is an American journalist living in London.

 BODY:
During the past decade, Dublin, once a gloomy, provincial city, has become Europe's darling. The economy is booming, and Dublin now is a regular on lists of top 10 destinations.
Helping to fuel the attraction is the redevelopment of Temple Bar, a once neglected riverside neighborhood that has become the city's new cultural quarter. Artistic venues include the Arthouse, a multimedia center; Temple Bar Music Center; the Ark, a cultural spot for children; the Irish Film Center, and the Gallery of Photography. There are also numerous oversized pubs that attract English bridal parties on weekends. The area, a small network of streets on the south bank of the river just west of O'Connell Bridge, is new and lively but still has the feel of engineered revival. 
 To experience the more enduring charm that distinguishes the city, stroll through St. Stephen's Green on a Sunday afternoon to see Dubliners at play. Take a walk past brightly painted Georgian doors with fan arches in the Merrion Square area. Stop for a late-afternoon pint at The Palace in Fleet Street or across the river at The Dockers'. Even in Temple Bar it's still possible to drop in on an impromptu session of fiddles and flutes at Oliver St. John Gogarty's.
Dress is casual, attitudes are laid back and smiles are everywhere. Always eager to chat and welcoming to Americans, Dubliners are what travelers will recall long after the sightseeing has faded from memory.
 
Events
The 126th Kerrygold Horse Show runs Aug. 4 to 8 on the grounds of the Royal Dublin Society, in Ballsbridge, about a mile south of the city center. The Kerrygold show is part of a worldwide competition with numerous international events. It's also a major social occasion, particularly on Aug. 5, Ladies' Day. Showgrounds are open from 9 A.M. to 6:30 P.M. daily. Ticket information: (353-1) 668-0866, fax (353-1) 660-4014. Admission to the showgrounds is $9.10 (at $1.30 to the Irish punt) for adults; $5.20 for children under 16 and senior citizens. Combined family tickets are available. Seats in the main arena, where major competitions take place, are free on Wednesday, $6.50 on Thursday, Saturday and Sunday and $15.60 on Friday.
Hurling, the fastest field game in the world, dates from Celtic times. It is similar to field hockey except that the ball can be hit in the air or on the ground. The All Ireland Hurling Semifinals take place on Aug. 8 and 15 in Croke Park on Jones Road. A limited number of tickets are available the week of the match. Seats in the stands cost $26, and standing room on the terrace costs $13; (353-1) 836-3222.
In Meeting House Square in Temple Bar, outdoor movies are shown on Saturdays through Sept. 4 at 10 P.M., and visiting circus troupes perform on Sundays until early September between 2 and 4 P.M. Call (353-1) 677-2255 for more information.
John B. Keane's classic comedy "Moll" is at the Gaiety Theatre on South King Street until Aug. 14 with Frank Kelly and Maureen Toal. Performances are nightly except Sunday at 8. Tickets, $13.65 to $20.80; (353-1) 677-1717.
An Antiques and Collectibles Fair, with prints, porcelain, silver and vintage linens, runs in St. Stephen's Green on Aug. 1, 22 and 29 and Sept. 5 and 19 from 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. at Newman House, 85 St. Stephen's Green, (353-1) 670-8295.
 
Sightseeing
Ceol, a visitor attraction at Smithfield Village, a new residential and commercial development off Arran Quay, (353-1) 817-3820, tells the history of Irish music in an impressive modern setting. Children will enjoy the many interactive exhibits, including the chance to dance a jig in front of large screens showing dance videos. Open Monday through Saturday 9:30 A.M. to 6 P.M., Sunday 10:30 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission is $5.10 for adults, $3.90 for children 7 to 12.
The Musical Pub Crawl leaves from Oliver St. John Gogarty's at 52 Fleet Street in Temple Bar nightly at 7:30 from the first Friday in May through the last Saturday in October. Two musicians perform songs and give an overview of Irish musical history during a two-and-a-half-hour tour of four pubs. In November, February, March and April, the walk takes place on Friday and Saturday only. Tickets are $8.60. More information: (353-1) 478-0193.
The Literary Pub Crawl is led by two actors who perform scenes by Dublin's famous playwrights and novelists. The two-and-a-half-hour walk among four pubs leaves nightly at 7:30 as well as Sundays at noon from The Duke in Duke Street from Easter through Oct. 31. From November to Easter, the walk takes place on Thursday through Sunday evenings as well as Sunday at noon. Tickets are $8.45 and $7.15 for students and seniors. More information: (353-1) 670-5602.
Tickets and information for these and other pub crawls are also available at the Dublin Tourism Center, Suffolk Street (no telephone information; walk-ins only).
The Book of Kells, the intricate illuminated manuscript of the Gospels made around 800, is one of the biggest draws in Dublin. It is displayed in the Old Library at Trinity College, College Green; (353-1) 608-2320, along with exhibits that show how illuminated manuscripts were painstakingly crafted. Open Monday to Saturday 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M., Sunday from 9:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. June to September and noon to 4:30. October to May. Admission is $5.85 for adults, $5.20 for students and senior citizens, free for children under 12.
On the southeast corner of Merrion Square, Dublin's finest Georgian square, No. 29 Lower Fitzwilliam Street, (353-1) 702-6165, has been restored to its original decor, and looks as it did when it was home to a well-off 18th-century family. Visitation is by guided tour only, which takes about 40 minutes including a saccharine introductory video. Open Tuesday to Saturday 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., Sunday 2 to 5 P.M. Closed Mondays and the two weeks before Christmas. Admission is $3.25, children under 16 free.
 
Where to Stay
Hotels fill up quickly in Dublin, especially at the lower end of the price scale.
Behind the locked gate of 31 Leeson Close, (353-1) 676-5011, fax (353-1) 676-2929, Noel Comer, his wife, Deirdre, and their dog, Homer, offer a friendly welcome. The guesthouse has a total of 20 rooms, 5 of which are in the basement of two modernized 19th-century coach houses. White brick walls and tile floors contribute to a cozy, informal atmosphere. Across the leafy courtyard is a Georgian townhouse with 15 rooms that fronts on Fitzwilliam Place. Breakfast is served family-style in the upstairs conservatory of the coachhouse. All bedrooms have ensuite bathrooms (though several have showers only, not tubs). Double rooms are either $122 or $143 including a hot breakfast. (Eggs, bacon and sausages or smoked salmon and scrambled eggs are among the choices.)
The seven rooms at the Grey Door, 22-23 Upper Pembroke Street, (353-1) 676-3286, fax (353-1) 676-3287, offer a homey stay in gracious Georgian style, and the hotel dining room is one of Dublin's finest restaurants. In the basement a second restaurant, Pier 32, has a similar menu but a more casual atmosphere, with live Irish music every night. All rooms have bathrooms with both showers and tubs. Doubles are $124 per night Monday through Thursday, $110 per night Friday through Sunday if you stay at least two consecutive nights. On weekdays Continental breakfast is $6.50, hot Irish breakfast $9; on weekends one's choice of breakfast is included in the room rate.
Budget: There are no frills but plenty of character and a friendly welcome at the Clifton Court Hotel, 11 Eden Quay, O'Connell Bridge, Dublin 1; (353-1) 874-3535, fax (353-1) 878-6698, a 30-room guesthouse overlooking the River Liffey. Bathrooms are closet-sized, with showers but no tubs. The bar has Irish music nightly. Doubles are $92 including Continental breakfast; ask about specials for stays of more than one night.
The Townhouse of Dublin, 47-48 Lower Gardiner Street, (353-1) 878-8808, fax (353-1) 878-8787, a guesthouse just north of the river, has 80 rooms. Standard doubles, which have a bathroom shared among four rooms, start at $78; luxury doubles with private bathroom start at $104. Rates include full Irish breakfast. Ask about midweek specials from October to June.
Luxury: Crystal chandeliers and muted elegance abound at the Shelbourne Dublin, a Meridien Hotel, 27 St. Stephen's Green, (353-1) 676-6471, fax (353-1) 661-6006. There are 190 rooms, many of which overlook the Green. Doubles start at $267 plus a 15 percent service charge. Breakfast is extra: $17 (Continental) and $20 (cooked).
Buswells Hotel, Molesworth Street, (353-1) 676-4013, fax (353-1) 676-2090, is near major museums. The recently refurbished 70-room hotel caters to business travelers but has a pleasant old-world feel. Standard doubles are $203 including cooked breakfast.
 
Where to Eat
Dublin restaurants have become increasingly cosmopolitan, but Conrad Gallagher still stands out for his creative Mediterranean-influenced cuisine. His restaurant Peacock Alley, in the Fitzwilliam Hotel, St. Stephen's Green West, (353-1) 478-7037, is white-wall stark with windows overlooking St. Stephen's Green. Entrees include char-grilled guinea fowl with saffron risotto and pan roasted red mullet with eggplant stew and coconut and curry emulsion. Dinner for two with wine, about $155. Lunch and dinner Monday through Saturday, closed Sunday.
Another current hot spot is the casual Mermaid Cafe, 69-70 Dame Street, (353-1) 670-8236. The kitchen produces sophisticated eclectic fare using lots of local ingredients, including chicken and parma ham Kiev with creamed corn or grilled aubergine (eggplant) with ricotta and sweet chili relish. Portions are huge. Dinner for two with wine is about $80. Dinner nightly, lunch Monday to Saturday, brunch on Sunday.
For Irish classics, Gallagher's Boxty House, 20-21 Temple Bar, (353-1) 677-2762, is the place, with fine boxty (stuffed potato pancakes) and hearty stews. It's likely you'll share a long table when it's busy. No reservations, but after 5 P.M. (2 on weekends) you can call for a time to come in. Dinner for two with wine, about $45. Open daily from noon to 11:30 P.M.
Cafe Mao, 2-3 Chatham Row, (353-1) 670-4899, has excellent Asian noodle and rice dishes served beneath Warhol-ish lithographs of the Chairman himself. Start with steamed rice paper trout or glass noodle salad and follow it up with tempura of lemon sole or nasi goreng, an Indonesian rice dish with just the right amount of heat. Dinner for two with wine is about $50. Open daily 10 A.M. to 11 P.M. on weeknights, 11:30 Friday and Saturday, 10 P.M. Sunday.
Families will feel comfortable at Elephant and Castle, 18 Temple Bar, (353-1) 679-3121, a popular diner-style eatery that is a branch of the establishment in New York. The simple but good food is centered on hamburgers, omelets and spicy chicken wings. Dinner for two with wine starts around $45. Open Monday through Friday 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M., Saturday 10:30 A.M. to 11:30 P.M., Sunday noon to 11:30.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Junior pony jumping at the Kerrygold Horse Show last year. (Alan Betson for The New York Times); On the Literary Pub Crawl. (Equestrian Photographic Services)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Dublin. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Irish Tourist Board, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses)
 
Map of Dublin, Ireland

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (93%); 

COMPANY: ST STEPHEN IGA (56%); TEMPLE BAR MUSIC CENTER (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE BAR MUSIC CENTER (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN (IRELAND); IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); FILM (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); RIVERS (69%); TICKET SALES (67%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (64%); HORSES (64%); FIELD HOCKEY (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: BAKER, EMILY LAURENCE

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



570 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2703 words

HEADLINE: FRUGAL TRAVELER;
A Worldly Getaway 2 Hours From Manhattan

BYLINE: By DAISANN McLANE

 BODY:
AHA! Another weekend warrior up from the big city," Paul Cavaccini, the manager of Rent a Wreck in New Paltz, N.Y., said with a chuckle when he saw me walk in the door. I certainly looked the part of a New York City runaway -- my dark linen pants ensemble hinted of brunches in SoHo, while the North Face backpack I hoisted smelled of sweat and insect repellent.
Mixed signals, certainly. But I was experiencing simultaneous cravings for urban sophistication and rural idyll. I wanted to lose myself in sylvan woods and babbling brooks, but only if they were within shouting range of a good wine store, an interesting restaurant and, perhaps, a purveyor of prosciutto di Parma. 
 I've never been much of a weekender. When faced with the choice of spending several thousand dollars on a summer rental on, say, Fire Island versus spending the same or less on a month's sojourn living extremely well in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Asia, I've always opted for the faraway trip.
Still, there are those Fridays in June when the sky is so blue, the air so fresh and warm, the smell of blooming wisteria drifting in the air from Prospect Park so lush, that it seems almost a misdemeanor to spend Saturday and Sunday in Brooklyn. Could I stage a swift, brief getaway that wouldn't upset my notions of travel economy?
On a weekend like this in early June, I decided to try. I took a subway to the Port Authority Bus Terminal in midtown Manhattan and hopped on an Adirondack Trailways bus headed to New Paltz, about 85 miles north, in Ulster County.
Southern Ulster, where New Paltz is, isn't as hip and well-trodden as Woodstock (in northern Ulster), nor as fashionable as celebrity-studded Columbia County. So I figured that accommodations would be a bit cheaper. I'd been there before, to visit my friend Annie, and we had spent a day wandering through almost-empty, gorgeous wooded trails in Minnewaska State Park, where the Shawangunk Mountain range drops, in a dramatic series of bare rock cliffs, down to the Hudson Valley -- an amazing vista that I wanted to see again.
There's a good Web site for the Hudson Valley region (www.hvnet.com), and a local magazine with lots of bed-and-breakfast listings called Ulster Magazine. Between these two sources, I was able to arrange my travel plans in less than an hour.
I decided to stretch my getaway, and stay four nights instead of two, from Friday to Tuesday. I booked a single room without bath for the first two nights at the Kripplebush Bed-and-Breakfast, not too far from Annie's cabin in the town of Stone Ridge, for $50 a night. Then, I'd splurge on a two-night stay ($80 a night) at Ujjala's B & B, near New Paltz.
Abby Johnnes, the owner of Kripplebush, gave me the number of Rent a Wreck in New Paltz, a short walk from the Trailways depot. Paul set me up with an economy car for $29 a day, including all insurance, and gave me the inside dope on local sources of Italian ham.
Abby, a sweet petite grandmother who once ran a bookstore in Greenwich Village, bought her house in the country after her children went off to college. Her house sits on a country road across the street from the Methodist church, a 12-mile drive northwest of New Paltz. My room was one of six that she rents out in the large wood-frame house that dates to the mid-1800's.
The room was tiny, but had a window with a view of her inviting back garden, where pink peonies and stalks of foxglove were blooming. The decor ran to Oriental prints, Abby's own paintings and shelf after shelf of interesting books, artifacts of a downtown literary life, circa 1960.
It was already dinnertime. I'd figured there would be little diversion available, but soon Annie called. "You're right near me," she said. "We're going to the film festival tonight. Pick you up in a half hour."
The Hudson Valley Film Festival was in its last week in Rhinebeck, about a half-hour drive from Stone Ridge across the Hudson River. We hurried over, just in time to catch a screening of a documentary on the photographer Walker Evans ($5). Afterward, I was pleased to find that the enthusiastic festival organizers had arranged a reception for the participants -- free wine and excellent and abundant canapes of smoked salmon, vegetables, and cheese.
I munched away at "dinner," amused that I'd run off from New York City only to bump into it upstate, as strains of movie conversation floated through the room: "You know I told Marty that he needed to talk to Bobby about this." Annie explained that the Stone Ridge-High Falls area of Ulster was a weekend hideaway for the independent film industry. Harvey Keitel and Willem Dafoe, among others, had houses along the same road as Kripplebush -- hadn't I noticed Dafoe's house, made of rubber?
I hadn't. I bit into another canape and savored the weekend warrior experience.
Breakfast was ready when I stumbled down at 8:30 the next morning: crepes with fruit and cream, bagels and superb coffee.
Braced and well-fed, I set out for Minnewaska -- with a detour, first, for provisions. In High Falls, a picturesque village three miles from Kripplebush, I bought a big bag of date bars ($3.99) and a bag of organic almonds ($3.99) at the local food co-op. At a deli closer to the park, Stone Ridge Specialty Foods, I picked up some homemade crab cakes ($3.75 each), for the rest of my trail lunch.
Crab cakes, a crisp blue sky, no bugs in sight and a nearly deserted trail stretching ahead -- hiking doesn't get much better than this, I thought to myself. My feet hit a nice walking rhythm along the carriage road. Until the mid-80's, this area was the grounds and preserve of a grand hotel (owned by the brother of the owner of the nearby Mohonk Mountain House). After the hotel burned down, the property became part of the state park system.
At one end of the park, Lake Minnewaska draws crowds, but the vast network of foot trails isn't much used. With the free map that the guard had handed me as I pulled into the parking lot (the fee is $5), I charted a course that I figured would lead me about four miles to the far end of the park, to a high bluff with a panoramic view of the valley and of Lake Awosting. The map was not very detailed, so I stuck to the carriage road. Then I bumped into a park ranger who had some good news: today, the park was inaugurating a hiking path that wasn't on the map yet but that led in the direction I was headed. The ranger pointed out the trail blazes, and I was off.
I followed a riverbed for a while, then took a turn and headed over high bare rocks. Suddenly, I was on a bluff covered with gnarled, ancient looking pitch pines. I was alone, and in the midst of a natural setting as remote and wild as any I've experienced. That this pristine place is but a short drive from Manhattan seemed almost a miracle. The wind up here howled -- some of the pines were bent almost horizontal. I continued, stopping to take pictures and have lunch.
Scrambling up another little ridge, I came down the other side and gasped. Below the mountain that dropped several hundred feet, Hudson Valley farmland spread out like a tablecloth checkered in shades of green. Lake Awosting shimmered at the other side. It was a lot of view, considering how little climbing I had to do. (I'd say my hike was moderately easy, with a bit of rock scrambling.)
Still, I'd come about four miles, and my return route to the parking lot, which skirted the ridge and passed the park's other lake, Minnewaska, was about another four and a half miles. By the time I got my sweaty self back to Kripplebush, I was ready for a nice dinner.
The Clove Cafe in High Falls is designed to please a city slicker out for a meal in the country -- dim lights, comfy wooden booths, not overly formal. The menu looked ambitious (the new owners , I found out, are graduates of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, across the Hudson), and was filled with wild things like venison and rabbit.
I had rabbit stew in a hearty Mediterranean-style sauce, polenta and steamed arugula. On the chef's recommendation, I tried a glass of a South African red wine called Pinotage, delicious, richly oaky and fruity, perfect for the end of a full day of tramping. With dessert and tip, dinner came to $48 -- pricey, but worth it, and my repast the night before had been free, after all.
Ujjala's Bed-and-Breakfast is about a 15-mile drive from Kripplebush, on the other side of the Shawangunk ridge, just south of New Paltz. I set out early, stopping for a bit to poke among old books and kitchen appliances at the Sunday morning flea market in High Falls.
At Ujjala Schwartz's lilac-colored Victorian house on a quiet small-town road, my room was larger than the one at Kripplebush, with antique bed and desk, lacy comforter and a puffy featherbed over the mattress. Wind chimes tinkled outside the kitchen, which opened to a little deck, sauna and pocket-sized garden. In the back was a meditation lodge, and two sweat lodges, where Indian purification rituals are sometimes held.
My friend Mark arrived from Westchester, to join me for a day of wine tasting. This part of the Hudson Valley was settled by the French Huguenots in the 1600's, and the Gallic farmers planted some of the first vineyards in the Americas. Viniculture in the region has waxed and waned through the centuries, but has recently hit its stride again: there are now enough vineyards in the area to support two wine trails, organized by local tourist organizations. We set out to visit the six vineyards on the Shawangunk Wine Trail.
The winding county roads ran through picturesque farmlands where cows lazed beside big red barns and young deer occasionally darted across our path. We tasted about four wines each at three vineyards; Mark, the connoisseur, was underwhelmed. Just when we'd decided that the scenery, rather than Hudson Valley wines, was the main attraction of the wine trail, we came upon Baldwin Vineyards in far southern Ulster. There, we sampled some unusual and subtly sweet dessert wines, intense with essences of local strawberries and raspberries. Even Mark was impressed, and we bought five bottles between us ($7 to $10).
I awoke early my last day because I wanted to go sightseeing in New Paltz before hiking again. To my dismay, I found that on Mondays, the town's old stone Huguenot houses are closed. But I enjoyed a walk in the cool of the morning down Huguenot Street, peering into the windows of the old settlers' homes, now museums, some of which date back to the 1700's. Since there was no one about, I could imagine I was walking in Colonial New York.
My time travel continued as I drove, about 20 minutes later, through the parking lot gates of Mohonk Mountain House. This Victorian resort, its main lodge a riot of over-the-top gingerbread, Tudor and the generally eclectic, sits on a huge tract of land with quaintly manicured grounds -- once one of the grand hotels of America.
It remains in the hands of the original owners, the Smiley family, and it retains its idiosyncratic and authentic Victorian atmosphere. Entrance to the main property is restricted to hotel guests, whose meals are included with their lodging. Nonguests who wish to hike the property -- a stretch adjacent to Minnewaska with similar topography -- must pass a checkpoint, wear a badge and pay a fee ($12 on weekends, $9 on weekdays).
Minnewaska State Park is a much better choice for serious hiking. But Mohonk is the place to absorb and understand Victorian esthetics -- not the faux lace-and-curtains Victoriana of home decor, but the 19th-century sensibility. Each of Mohonk's paths winds in a fashion calculated to provide the most pleasing view of the natural setting. Nature is tamed and made softer and more comfortable by wooden benches placed at regular intervals, charming gazebos, clever ponds and other evidences of the hand of man.
I rested on one of those benches and took stock: in four days I'd gone to a screening party, hiked in splendid woods, tasted wine, poked in a flea market, eaten an excellent dinner and even managed to tuck in a sauna. I had had as much variety of experience, and as much fun in Ulster County as in many faraway exotic places, without buying an airline ticket. This novice weekend warrior felt victorious -- and began to plot her next campaign.
 
The bottom line: culture, nature and relaxation
I spent $96.50 a day for food, lodging and activities during my four days in Ulster County.
 
Getting There
Round-trip bus fare from midtown Manhattan to New Paltz, N.Y., cost $31.35 on Adirondack Trailways, which runs about a dozen trips a day, lasting just under two hours. Information: (800) 858-8555.
I rented a 1992 Mercury from Rent a Wreck in New Paltz, 87 North Chestnut Street, (914) 255-5666, for $29 a day. Mileage is free up to 125 miles a day and you must stay within a 100-mile radius of the office.
 
Where to Stay
Kripplebush Bed-and-Breakfast, 160 Kripplebush Road, Stone Ridge, N.Y., (914) 687-0723, is also Abby Johnnes's home. She has six guest rooms in a stagecoach house that dates from the 1840's. My single with bath across the hall was $50; doubles are $65 to $95. No credit cards.
Ujjala's Bed-and-Breakfast, 2 Forest Glen Road, New Paltz, (914) 255-6360, www.ujjalasbnb.com., has four rooms, with lace duvets, antique furniture and lots of pillows. I chose it for its New Age accouterments: there's a sauna and a meditation chamber. Ujjala Schwartz offers advice on rock-climbing and kayaking and canoeing in the area. My room, with bath across the hall, was $80 a night; doubles are $90, $105 with private bath. No credit cards.
 
Where to Eat
The Clove Cafe, 1003 Route 213, High Falls, N.Y., (914) 687-7911, has a sophisticated menu of local game and other delicacies. Dinner with wine, tax and tip came to $48. Lunch served on Friday, brunch on Saturday and Sunday. Closed Monday and Tuesday.
Along Route 209, Stone Ridge Specialty Foods, High Falls, (914) 687-2000, sells takeout foods with an Italian touch, and is putting in tables. I picked up two meaty crab cakes for lunch for $7.50. Closed Monday.
The High Falls Food Co-op, 1398 Route 213, High Falls, (914) 687-7262, has a good selection of organic munchies.
A few miles north of the entrance to Minnewaska State Park, The Log Cabin Restaurant, 5941 Route 44-45, Kerhonkson, N.Y., (914) 626-9838, caters to Ukrainian retirees in the area. The proprietor, Olga Sawchuck, served me scrumptious pirogis stuffed with potatoes and cheese, and topped with brown-fried onions in butter. I washed this down with a draft beer; the tab came to $9. Open for lunch and dinner daily, except Tuesday.
 
What to Do
The annual Hudson Valley Film Festival, (914) 473-0318, presents aprogram of features, documentaries and shorts during the first week of June in Rhinebeck; many screenings are followed by talks and receptions.
Minnewaska State Park Preserve, (914) 255-0752, charges a parking fee of $5, $6 in summer. There are hiking trails, but no overnight camping. Swimming is available at two lakes. The park opens at 9 A.M daily and closes as late as 9 P.M., depending on season.
The wineries on the Shawangunk Wine Trail have varied hours, but most welcome visitors on Saturday and Sunday afternoons in the summer. A list of the participating wineries, and a map of the trail is available at www.hvnet.com. The trail is reasonably well marked by signs with grapes, but taking a map along is a good idea.
The stone houses along Huguenot Street in New Paltz form a National Historic Landmark District. The Huguenot Historical Society, (914) 255-1889, www.hhs-newpaltz.org., runs tours, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M. every day but Monday from May to October. Tours, which cost $3, $6 and $10, depending on length, start at the visitors center, 18 Broadhead Avenue.
The grounds of Mohonk Mountain House, New Paltz, N.Y., (914) 255-1000, www.mohonk.com, but not the house itself, are open to the public. Entry is $12 on weekends, $9 during the week; $8 and $7 under age 12. Day visitors can use the nine-hole golf course ($12 to $20) and six tennis courts ($12 an hour) if space is available. DAISANN McLANE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bikers and hikers take in Hudson Valley vistas at Minnewaska State Park.; A Sunday flea market in High Falls, N.Y.; A farm in Kripplebush, N.Y. (Photographs by Daisann McLane for The New York Times) (pg. 6); Ujjala's Bed-and-Breakfast, near New Paltz, has a garden and a sauna in the back. (Daisann McLane for The New York Times) (pg. 22)
 
Map of Ulster County, N.Y. highlighting Minnewaska State Park (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RAWA (NASDAQ) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RENT-A-WRECK OF AMERICA INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (78%); STATE PARKS (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MOUNTAINS (70%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (67%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); PORT AUTHORITIES (64%); MISDEMEANORS (51%); WEB SITES (50%); 

PERSON: ABBY JOHNNES (57%); PAUL CAVACCINI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



571 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 39; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: The New Frontier

BYLINE: By Amy M. Spindler 

 BODY:
It seems particularly appropriate that one of the rare pioneering events in American fashion was conceived by a recent immigrant.
 Nine months after moving to American soil, Helmut Lang switched the entire collection calendar, so that for the first time, this February, Europe showed in New York's shadow. 
 It's a petty issue, like a schoolyard squabble. Who goes first, who goes last. Mostly, it's a question of who gets the credit for bringing back fishtail hems, burnt orange and the like. Silly, really, except that fortunes in fashion are often made based on who invented what. Or who copied it at the right moment and made it available to the most people.
 The New York collections were once a full month after Europe's began, leaving American designers little chance of having an impact on the world market: the last to get into magazines, the last to get into stores and, presumably, the last to get into closets.
 "It was very pioneering," Lang says of the decision to move his show. "It changed the whole global calendar in a crazy way."
 That change clearly inspired a sense of patriotism and pride, and raised the level of creativity in New York to a new high. The air here was the same as the air in Europe, which is to say there was a whiff of heartfelt homespun clothes on each continent. But in America, the references were bred in the bone: the inspiration for many of the shows were cultural milestones in American history.
 For starters, there was Helmut Lang's infatuation with NASA, based on his belief that the only way to approach the millennium is not "to be afraid." He cited all the things that NASA has affected in our daily lives, from aluminum foil to toothpaste tubes. But his collection was full of its own invention -- new ways to wear jackets (hung from shoulders like backpacks), new ways to wear pants (covering one leg like chaps), new ways to cinch waists (cummerbunds with pockets) and new ways to dress entirely (all in one piece).
 For Anna Sui, it was the Newport Folk Festival from '63 to '66 that rocked her world. Described in her show's program notes as "Newport's golden age. . .when Mary Travers looked like Julie Christie, Judy Collins loomed as Sweet Judy Blue Eyes and a fresh-faced Bob Dylan had just begun giving the larger world a hard time," this was the beginning of the hippie movement in America, another phenomenon that many shows paid homage to.
 But some of the strongest collections of the season were redolent of John Ford's movies, with their emphasis on strength, courage and independence. In fact, this is the first time in years that Hollywood is making Westerns again, revisionist ones like "Wild Wild West," real ones like "Texas Rangers" (from Dimension, the company that started the teen slasher trend with "Scream") and spiritual ones like "All the Pretty Horses."
 Tales of the American West became unpopular during the last economic boom for one reason: they were about poor people living by their wits. Westerns were about success outside civilization, something the 80's disparaged.
 A decade ago, the spirit of the pioneer was recast as entrepreneurship, and power suits were the result. But in this economic boom, the pioneer is being interpreted literally -- a woman with an artistic bohemian air, more likely to wear a serape than a power suit.
 Marc Jacobs's pioneering princesses wore ruffled skirts and ribbon ties, aprons and jumpers, pony prints and sheer little camisole tops. At Michael Kors, Park Avenue met Wyoming, with visions of Slim Hawks on the range, and the rangy elegance of Gary Cooper. For John Bartlett, Georgia O'Keeffe and Alfred Stieglitz were "a couple who embodied the pioneering spirit of the century, the cultural link between an urban setting like New York and the unknown, as in the Southwest." His pioneers wore leather railroad-worker pants, cashmere C.P.O. shirts and sable furs dyed to look like Hudson Bay blankets. "It felt as though we were jumping off the cliff without knowing where we were going to land," Bartlett says of showing before Europe. "I felt much more uncensored, able to do what I wanted to do without worrying. America isn't about avant-garde -- it's about being a pioneer, which is the legacy of our culture."
 Cowboy and frontier clothing has long been considered the property of Ralph Lauren, the pioneer of the pioneer look. But as the millennium looms, all history seems fair game for appropriation (even the archives of other designers), and the American West seems particularly relevant, since at this point we are all pioneers.
 "The clothes were strong the way an artistic woman is strong, like Georgia O'Keeffe," says Simon Doonan, creative director of Barneys New York. "It was the antithesis to the tarty early 90's."
 Women like O'Keeffe and Millicent Rogers, the Standard Oil heiress who made the Southwest fashionable in the 1940's, speak to this generation. Escape, dropping out of the rat race, can be interpreted as an elitist activity, requiring more wealth than it takes to scramble up the ladder. So there are two American dreams, really: monetary success, on the one hand, and no longer needing that success, on the other.
 "Women today talk about getting away from everything, getting out of the city, getting over the 80's power game," Doonan says. "In the 80's, they wanted power and money and corporate strength. They got it, and it didn't make them happy, so they kept looking further."
 Looking further is now about looking back, returning to a time that was perhaps simpler, but required more strength of character.
 That strength proved to be implicit in what inspired the shows and explicit in the materials chosen. Working with unfinished felt, Ralph Lauren left the West behind as everyone else discovered it, producing clothes that were simultaneously pristine, monastic and militaristic. He regarded this collection as pivotal, as "setting the tone for the new millennium."
 In fact, it was this need to offer meaning that seemed to pervade the season, which was less about fashion than about America itself. And as a permanent record of the event, the designers whose clothes are featured here have agreed to donate them to the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute, and Barneys New York (the sponsor of the institute's current exhibit, "Our New Clothes") will be displaying them in its windows until July 28.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hudson Bay poncho, $15,000, turtleneck, $445, and pants, $1,115, by John Bartlett. Poncho by special order from Barneys New York. Turtleneck and pants at Barneys New York.; Silver "rubber-finished" biker jacket, $740, and pants, $315, by Helmut Lang. For stores: www.helmutlang.com. Boots by Daryl K. (Cleo Sullivan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARCTIC OCEAN (59%); 

COMPANY: LINK THEORY HOLDINGS CO LTD (92%); NEW YORK (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARCTIC OCEAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%); HISTORY (64%); 

PERSON: SPINDLER, AMY M HELMUT LANG (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



572 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 19; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 7-25-99: Word & Image;
Rushing the Seasons

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
Since we are all obsessed with plans to greet the next century on New Year's Eve, it may seem natural for the media to be rushing the electoral calendar by two, five, even nine years. Politically speaking, as The Economist put it, the Fourth of July this year felt like Labor Day 2000, the time when we would normally just begin to focus on the choice of leaders for 2001. But what is understandable is nonetheless unseemly and in no small way undemocratic.
 With the hedge of only a disingenuous question mark, The Economist itself proclaimed on its Independence Day cover that George W. Bush and Al Gore had their nominations "ALL SEWN UP." And the British weekly was surely speaking with the courage of every other journal's conviction. 
 The New Yorker's Talk of the Town celebrated July 4th in this "off year" with three separate election features. One offered Joe Klein's rendering, in primary colors, of George Bush's heart and soul. Another declared Hillary Rodham Clinton's undeclared run for the Senate to be "the first great political drama of the new millennium." And, that settled, the magazine postulated a Bill Clinton quest after his own Senate seat in Arkansas, in 2002.
 Looking still farther ahead, The New York Times discovered that the new Governor of Minnesota, Jesse Ventura, was plotting his own bid for the White House -- in 2004. The former wrestler was thought to be recruiting Lowell P. Weicker Jr., the Connecticut maverick, as the Reform Party's nominee against Bush and Gore next year to gain at least 5 percent of the vote in 2000 and thus qualify for Federal financing in the campaign after next.
 The New Yorker trumped again, with a vision of 2008. It reasoned quite plausibly that Mrs. Clinton would never want to spend her weekends in Buffalo just to share power with 99 other Senators. So she must be planning a run for President in her own second term, after her presumed obligation to support the election and re-election of Gore has been fully paid.
 The simplest explanation for all this soothsaying is that the media are cutting costs. Divining the future is a lot easier and cheaper than documenting the present. And prophecy has twice the shelf life of history; people forget the floods of yesterday but will gossip endlessly about a predicted deluge.
 Another reason for the media's political rush may be the absence of other compelling news. In this time of peace and prosperity, Mrs. Clinton's transformation into a New Yorker became the subject of 232 articles in The Times in the first six months of this year -- almost as many as those tracking the plight and reform of Medicare. A full 16 months before Election Day, Mrs. Clinton was getting more free time on national television than her husband's hauls of "soft" money could purchase in his campaigns. The press corps covering her maiden voyage around upstate New York was twice the size of the entourage that followed Nixon to China.
 But, O.K., a First Lady's solo flight from the White House is a bedazzling novelty. She's still thinking about only 1 of 535 seats in Congress. And why race to resolve every other contest?
 There is, first, the media's penchant for always waging the last war. As the political press discovered only after the Presidential contest of 1996, it was won by Clinton's television blitz of 1995 -- a pre-emptive strike that knocked out Bob Dole long before he was even nominated. So a full-court press in 1999 became the media's predictable approach to 2000.
 A further reason for rushing the season was the shift of many primary elections from June to March. Reacting against the disproportionate political influence of early-voting small states like Iowa and New Hampshire, party leaders of delegate-rich states like New York and California moved their own primaries ahead by three months.
 That seriously damaged the rolling-stone strategy of lesser-known and underfinanced aspirants; they could no longer count on winter walking tours to give them momentum for the television wars of spring. Now the big TV outlays will fall due in dozens of states at the very beginning of the primary season, and the Democratic and Republican nominees will be known a full seven months before Election Day.
 So, obviously, the richer a candidate the better his chances. The media needed only to learn the winners of the financial primaries in 1999 to proclaim the winners of the electoral primaries of 2000. After six months of fund-raising, win, place and show went to Bush, with $35.5 million; Gore, with $18.5 million, and Bill Bradley, with $11 million. By July 1, we read about a Republican runaway and a comfortable though not yet insurmountable lead for Gore among Democrats. Why the opinion polls aligned so perfectly with the financial rolls was a question largely left to sociologists. On to the World Series.
 Note that the newly decisive financial primaries employ some of the same sly techniques to manipulate the media formerly used in conventional campaigns. Candidates who used to underestimate their strength in Iowa or New Hampshire have now taken to poor-mouthing their early fund-raising so as to generate headlines about their doing "better than expected." This propaganda of surprise then serves to command still more contributions from corporate favor-seekers and to scare away donations to any remaining rivals.
 Our politicians and media alike have perfected the art of projecting present strength into future power. They are served by a whole industry that creates political momentum from a combination of wealth and celebrity and manufacture votes from television appearances and commercials. That industry, a post-industrial complex of fund-raisers, pollsters, consultants and media buyers, can turn marquee names like Hillary and the Body Ventura into virtual cash and raise mountains of actual money for office seekers blessed with incumbency or the aura of electoral inevitability.
 Long tutored by Theodore H. White in the offstage arts of "the making of a President," the media learned at the end of the 20th century to project the evidence of fame and fortune far into the future. We just follow the money and take the voters and issues for granted. But inevitably, we will turn our most important political rites into an intolerable bore.
 Letting all this political combat drown out timely policy debate is unseemly. And if you think it's democratic, I'd like to sell you a heavily used bridge to the next century.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA ELECTIONS (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MILLENNIUM (78%); US LABOR DAY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNORS (69%); MEDICARE (68%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



573 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Nurtured by a Canal, a Downtown Desert Blooms

BYLINE: By JANE HOLTZ KAY; Jane Holtz Kay is the architecture critic for The Nation as well as the author of "Asphalt Nation" and "Lost Boston."

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.

 BODY:
THE Providence that greeted a generation of visitors during the dark days of urban renewal might have stood as an emblem of the demise of American downtowns. Choked with roads, strewn with rubble and crowded with hard-top parking lots, the grim center of this city seemed blighted beyond redemption.
But today this half-mile swath bears a new name, Waterplace Park, and with its new outlook hints of a Venice in New England. Much of the credit goes to the architect William D. Warner, who, though he didn't exactly part the asphalt, has created a model of urban revitalization, turning what was once a desert of hardtop and highway into a canal and promenade. 
 With its waterway, park space, esplanades, restaurants and bicycle and walking paths, the project has begun a transformation of the city's downtown. Inspired by the success of Waterplace Park, the city recently began the next phase of renewal: a $270 million 10-year project that will complete the waterway's passage to the ocean.
The change taking place in the heart of Providence fits into a national trend: American cities are increasingly replacing hardtopped waterfronts and other downtown neighborhoods that had been flattened by highways in the 50's and 60's. In so doing, they are tearing up roads -- or depaving, to use the new term -- to create attractive cityscapes.
Though depaving projects on the scale of that in Providence are rare, smaller efforts are becoming more commonplace. In the 70's, Portland, Ore., took down a highway to build a riverbank park. Recently, San Francisco reclaimed a strip of land that had been cut off from the waterfront by the elevated Embarcadero highway. Boston is burying a downtown waterfront artery in a tunnel. In Louisville, Ky., a half-mile stretch along the Ohio River was made over by dismantling an exit ramp from Interstate 64 to make a walkable link to the city's downtown. And in the South Bronx, a campaign is under way to dismantle a one-and-one-fourth-mile stretch of the Sheridan Expressway and use it to expand a desolate park on the Bronx River.
Of all these initiatives, the one in Providence is "the most ambitious new architecture and engineering project in the nation," said Ann Breen, co-director of the Waterfront Center, an advocacy group in Washington. A photograph of the city before the waterfront project began more than a decade ago would reveal a landscape split in two by roads, highways and parking lots: at the city's crest stood the palatial McKim, Mead & White marble state capitol; below, the dense downtown.
In the early 80's the state proposed a plan that would have repaired the highways but left those that choked the city's center. Dismayed by that prospect, Mr. Warner proposed a plan of his own to jackhammer the asphalt that divided the city and restore the waterfront. His proposal included a re-routing of the Woonasquatucket and Moshassuck rivers, which had been buried by highways. The city signed on.
If "daylighting" is the word used by those who release creeks from culverts, "city making" would best describe what Mr. Warner had in mind. While earlier plans for redeveloping the waterfront had surfaced, Mr. Warner was in every sense the architect behind the realization of Waterplace Park, said Edward Sanderson, the executive director of the State Preservation Commission. It was Mr. Warner's political savvy that saw the project through the bureaucratic labyrinth, aided by the support of Mayor Vincent (Buddy) Cianci and Senators Claiborne Pell and John Chafee, whose backing made it possible to use Federal transportation funds to finance the project.
Walking in the newly created park, boating along the canal's still waters or passing under a procession of 12 bridges, one is hard put to imagine the former dreariness of this area. What visitors encounter today is a tour de force: a curving waterway dotted with lagoons, street lights, steps, platforms for benches, a restaurant and small rotundas. Along the way, bridges and paths fan out into plazas near the campus of the Rhode Island School of Design or create inviting spaces in front of buildings. The palette of materials is large, the architect's way of design traditional: it has neither the thin angles and awkward lines of the deconstructionists nor the clunky pseudohistoricism of the post-moderns.
The architect handles the extremes of scale deftly, from his overall plan to details like the bronze railings, the patterned brick on a bridge or the ornate sewer covers, all of which he designed.
Mr. Warner describes his 12-person office not as an "A & E" firm, as in architecture and engineering, but as an "A & L.A." firm, for architecture and landscape architecture. His attention to the waterfront grounds is obvious: daffodils dapple the slopes in between the river-grass plantings; weeping willows and oak trees trace the banks, and the other regional plants show the care given to the greensward.
Local artists have made Waterplace Park a gathering spot in the summer with Water Fire, an event in which gondoliers cloaked in black mufti glide from brazier to brazier along the canal, each illuminating the night sky. This spectacle has become something of a civic happening, drawing a cross section of city dwellers to the waterfront.
The next phase of the project will enhance the edges of the harbor basin. This austere industrial area, with its odd-lot buildings, will have a more "earthy" look, Mr. Warner says. The rocks sustaining its banks will remain, and a boardwalk, docks and a heritage museum are planned, as is a bicycle path from the waterfront to the city's poorer neighborhoods. Also in the area is a power plant that bears Mr. Warner's signature: the addition of massive black ducts and windows emblazoned with red and green.
While Mr. Warner's Waterplace Park -- not to mention the popular NBC television series "Providence" article, page 29 -- gives the city a new cachet, another new project detracts from the area's urbanity. It is the $435 million 1.3-million-square-foot Providence Place soon to open between the canal and the capitol. Spanning a long city block, this shopping and entertainment complex, with a giant glass atrium called the Wintergarden, is a mall-like intruder on the cityscape.
Dominated by a 4,000-car garage, this looming structure, along with three new downtown hotels and a convention center, could drain customers from the city's core and threaten the vitality hard won by Waterplace. Indeed, the overscaled Providence Place raises questions as to whether the city can build more lively, intimate projects like Waterplace Park as developers push for more conventional projects.
It also invites the larger question: can American cities learn from the success of Waterplace Park? Even as Kansas City, Mo., enhances its handsome system of historic greenways, it expands its Interstate through the city. While Camden, N.J., enhances its waterfront, Trenton succumbs to a retrograde road-widening of Route 29 by the Delaware River.
Nor does simply eliminating asphalt produce utopian architecture. A park in Louisville by the landscape architecture superstar George Hargreaves is sterile. His formalistic design makes the surroundings secondary: in an arbitrary approach to the landscape, he places a triangular "Parisian park" here, a waterfall there and nowhere (practically) a waterside seat. The result is stiff and unyielding, a far remove from Louisville's richly textured parks by Frederick Law Olmsted that hew to river and land.
Still, if results vary, the impetus grows. The urge for green (or blue) relief was made manifest in the last election when 240 communities across the country placed initiatives to preserve open space on the ballot and more than two-thirds passed, reflecting a new constituency for such policies. If today's sprawl to the fringes of the metropolis is the problem, reconstructing the urban core is the solution. Those struggling to save America's cities could learn from Providence's depaving.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Waterplace Park in downtown Providence, R.I., above,designed by the architect William Warner. The canal and walkway there took the place of parking lots and asphalt, as shown in the 1980's, left. (Photographs by William D. Warner, Architects & Planners)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); DESERTS (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM D WARNER (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



574 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 6; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2780 words

HEADLINE: DANCE;
Reconstructing Khmer Classics From Zero

BYLINE: By ROBERT TURNBULL; Robert Turnbull, who writes about the arts, teaches music at the Royal University of Fine Arts in Phnom Penh.

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia

 BODY:
ONE gray December afternoon in 1996, Fred Frumberg decided to quit. His secure and salaried post in charge of staff directors at the Paris Opera had lost its charm.
An industrious 39-year-old Philadelphian with a passion for the stage and a distinguished record as a trouble-shooter for big-name directors like Peter Sellars and Francesca Zambello, Mr. Frumberg still relished the adrenaline thrill of opening nights, the last-minute miracles snatched from disaster, even the eyeball-to-eyeball skirmishes with recalcitrant stars like the tenor Roberto Alagna. But now the downside depressed him: a daily grind of singer cancellations, union walkouts, petty opera-house politics and Gallic paper pushing. He wanted out. 
 Six months later, Mr. Frumberg found himself in the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, charged with a radical mission to save a decimated culture.
It was never going to be easy. Days after he arrived, the country collapsed once again into civil war. For 48 hours, Mr. Frumberg was holed up in a Phnom Penh apartment as rockets exploded and gunfire rattled outside. Occasionally he would run the gantlet to the Foreign Correspondent's Club, a gecko-infested colonial building, straight out of a Marguerite Duras novel, where a posse of war correspondents had dug themselves in.
The son of a landscape architect who fought in the Yom Kippur War, Mr. Frumberg spent his teens in Israel and most of his professional life outside the United States. He is proficient in at least five languages. His fascination with Cambodia began after a revelatory holiday there in 1995. Inspired, he said, by the Khmer people's "extraordinary resilience in the face of adversity," he buried himself in studies of the Khmer culture and language once he was back in Paris and sought out leading Khmer emigres.
Soon he met Prince Sihamoni, King Sihanouk's son, who is a dancer and the Cambodian representative to UNESCO Paris, and Nouth Narang, the country's Culture Minister at the time. Within a year, he had been appointed a United Nations volunteer in production management for the performing arts, a post he created and hoped would let him participate in the repair of Cambodia's destroyed heritage.
Between the 9th and 14th centuries, the Khmer Empire dominated the entire region: an adamantine power, extending well into modern-day Burma and Laos, that spawned Southeast Asia's greatest concentration of temples and its most resplendent culture. Pol Pot, the leader of the Communist Khmer Rouge, succeeded in eradicating almost 800 years of artistic endeavor in just three and a half years in a purge of the intelligentsia far more brutal than anything contemplated by Stalin or Mao. Classical dancers were among the first to be eliminated, and between 1975 and 1979, 80 percent of them perished either by execution or starvation.
The 1980's offered some relief. The Khmer Rouge's expulsion from power in 1979 triggered a furtive growth in culture: Cambodia's traditional orchestras -- the Pinpeat and Mahori ensembles -- could once again be heard at weddings and funerals. A few classical ballets, preserved only in fragile memories, were haphazardly resurrected, while those who had dabbled in Yikai and Bassac -- Cambodia's popular and highly elaborate versions of Chinese opera -- came forward with the skills they had been at pains to hide.
But performances were rare. In 1982, the Ministry of Culture assembled a national theater company -- an amalgam of dance and theater to perform at political events or for the occasionally visiting dignitary. However, amateur groups had neither costumes nor resources. Any hope for a major arts revival was short-lived. Surviving artists were forced to work within minuscule budgets and continued to face an enervating daily struggle with corruption and Government indifference.
The situation reached a point of farce when Nouth Narang came close to selling the Culture Ministry building to a Taiwanese businessman. A further blow was dealt in 1994, when the Bassac Theater building, which had been constructed in the 1960's for the National Theater Company, burned down. The company of 248 members -- an amalgam of dance, theater and circus artists earning Government salaries equivalent to $15 a month -- was reduced to playing political events and tourist shows at the only other available space, the ill-equipped, French-built Chaktomuk Theater on the Mekong River.
Mr. Frumberg's priority, he said, was to "bring performance back into mainstream public life, so that the Khmer people could rediscover the glory and diversity of their heritage." But he soon realized that if that was to happen, he would have to raise the money himself. Government coffers were empty, and it rarely occurred to the wealthy foreign relief agencies in Phnom Penh, not to mention local businessmen, to plow even a fraction of their funds into the arts.
Mr. Frumberg had never had to raise a cent, but his concern for the plight of local artists proved persuasive. "I had to get potential donors to understand the crucial role the arts could play in reversing the trauma and tragedy of the last few decades," he said.
In his opinion, contemporary theater provided the best vehicle for tackling Cambodia's social ills head on. Within a month he secured $5,000 from a local beer company for "Destiny," a young Cambodian writer's play about poor Cambodian women who sell beer for a pittance and are forced into prostitution. The play caused a sensation.
Shortly after, he put on a musical entitled "Anyone Can Get AIDS," aimed at addressing the ignorance surrounding Cambodia's growing AIDS problem. Financed in part by UNESCO and by U.C.C. Kampot, a vocational training center for Khmer Rouge war victims set up by an American relief worker, Linda McKinney, the show played to more than 13,000 villagers in a neglected and impoverished southwestern province.
Mr. Frumberg evolved a two-pronged program addressing contemporary problems with contemporary arts, while making an effort to revive classical arts. He and Professor Hang Soth, the head of the National Theater, planned seasons at the Chaktomuk embracing most of the national company's classical disciplines. They included core ballets like the "Reamker," the Khmer version of the epic "Ramayana," and the "Apsara," the dance of the Celestial Nymphs depicted on the great 12th-century Angkor Wat temple, the cumulative symbol of the power the Khmer civilization once held. At the Chaktomuk, folk dance alternated with acrobatics (another product of the Angkor era, it is thought) and Yikai, the genre of music theater that comes closest to a Western musical, like "Tum Tiev," the story of a doomed love between a palace-educated monk and a villager, sometimes referred to as Cambodia's "Romeo and Juliet." Performances of Lakhaon Kaol, the male masked-dance version of the "Ramayana" story, began again in Phnom Penh after an absence of more than 30 years.
Many of these pieces have been painstakingly reconstructed by a handful of old masters who have devoted their lives to the task. One of them is Em Tiay, a dignified 67-year-old woman, who directs National Theater rehearsals every morning in the burned-out shell of the Bassac. There, to the accompaniment of the sweet-toned, rhythmically insistent Pinpeat orchestra, 40 or so female dancers surround her, resplendently swathed in silk sarongs.
Em Tiay gently places her hand on a dancer's shoulders, maneuvering the taut torso. Taking a left arm into her right hand, she holds out a finger to focus the dancer's gaze. In Khmer classical dance, the position of the eyes is crucial. Em Tiay then kneels in front of the dancer, slowly bending her knees to force the waist inward and the buttocks out.
As a palace dancer, specializing in the role of the giant Khong, a character in the "Ramayana," Em Tiay led a cosseted, disciplined life. She spent the Pol Pot years in a village near Battambang, in the northwest, where, remarkably, it was her skills that saved her. Her two sisters, who were also dancers, perished, along with 80 percent of the royal dancers, but Em Tiay's Khmer Rouge village chief insisted that she dance for him while others toiled.
Em Tiay is less than optimistic about the future of classical dance in a country still undermined by factional fighting, corruption and the relentless pursuit of self-interest essential to survival. "In Khmer classical dance, nothing is arbitrary; every movement expresses an inner feeling," she said with elegant resignation. "In these circumstances, it becomes very difficult to teach intangible expressions of joy or the feeling of loss."
Such goals are attainable, according to Proeung Chhien, the dean of choreographic arts at the Royal University in Phnom Penh, "provided we act now, before the older performers fall ill or pass away."
A number of grant-giving organizations have joined the effort. The Rockefeller Foundation donated a fresh set of leather shadow puppets (Sbeich Thom) for use by the last surviving master of the genre, the 82-year-old Ta Tien. The Asian Cultural Council in New York has established a three-year mentor program overseen by the ethnomusicologist Sam-Ang Sam, in which established teachers pass on their knowledge in a structured environment.
A$30,000 Notation Project from the Japan Foundation, which Mr. Frumberg inherited from Kiri Schultz, an American expert on Asia, takes the mentor idea one stage further. Over 18 months, a dozen dance professors and two foreign notation experts are recording as many as 4,000 gestures on paper and video, in the hope that at least 60 classic dances can be rescued from oblivion. The exercise is not simple: "It's often difficult to establish at what point gestures begin and end," Mr. Frumberg said.
By translating the results of such research into professional opportunities, Mr. Frumberg is significantly raising his performers' self-esteem.
When his second contract was drawing to a close earlier this year, students at the Royal University of Fine Arts organized a petition to persuade him to stay in Cambodia. "Mr. Fred is a model for us all to study, a loving man with a heart full of conscientiousness, responsibility and humanity," said Hang Soth, the National Theater head, with tears in his eyes.
Few foreigners in the arts have managed to engender this degree of affection and trust. Cambodia's Byzantine cultural politics and the intense rivalry between leading factions makes the distribution and appropriation of foreign money especially sensitive.
Not only is he an impresario, Mr. Frumberg is also involved in everything from marketing to rehearsal schedules to tearing tickets when no one else is available -- a rather wider brief than he could have predicted on graduating from Temple University in theater studies in 1979. One minute he will be coaxing the local Women's International Group into helping the fledgling Cambodian Symphony Orchestra, the next he will be explaining to employees of Shell Oil why they cannot use the theater foyer to promote a new line of lubricants.
As the pressure mounts, he becomes frantically busy. His office -- in the UNESCO colonial villa opposite the Royal Palace -- becomes a milling marketplace for wannabes of all persuasions bidding for different opportunities. A balding Tuscan wants to bring Luciano Pavarotti to Angkor Wat. "That'll be the day I leave Cambodia," Mr. Frumberg groans.
Is it worth the effort? Mr. Frumberg has his bad days, but nothing provides the answer with more certainty than the carnival-like atmosphere and sense of exhilarating fulfillment generated by the live performances. For years, Cambodian audiences were as out of practice at going to the theater as the artists were at performing in it, but the notion that young Khmers have sold their souls to Thai television and karaoke is an overstatement.
"What is needed now is education and investment," said Chhonn Chuon, a university graduate and recent convert to classical ballet. "The wars may be over, but the country's cultural identity will never recover from its near fatal blow until the Government understands the crucial role played by the arts and humanities."
Religion may also have a part to play. One of the leaders of the arts revival is Prof. Chheng Phon, a former culture minister in the 1980's during the Vietnamese occupation. A bespectacled, Buddha-like bundle in a tangle of off-white robes, he believes that cultural revival can be effective only as part of a national spiritual revival.
His shrine is the $300,000 Vipassana Center in Takhmau, a suburb of Phnom Penh. Here, in his ashram, he has built what he calls his Celestial Theater. With its enigmatically smiling faces, it is modeled on the 12th-century Bayon temple, a 15-minute stroll from Angkor Wat. Every Sunday, students come to spiritual workshops or to hear the master lecture on the four tenets of Buddhism and the true path to enlightenment. Mr. Frumberg is helping to raise money for Chheng Phon's most ambitious project yet, a series of performances depicting the 10 lives of the Buddha.
Cambodia's history is a national obsession -- even the country's flag bears the symbol of the Angkor Wat temple. But Chheng Phon's romantic vision of the Khmer legacy cannot obscure the gaping chasm between Cambodia's former power and its current economic depression. Angkor Wat brings a sense of pride in the Khmer heritage and much-needed tourist dollars, but it also serves to stifle enterprise: living culture is constantly having to play second fiddle to archeology.
"Isn't it time we began to invest in people rather than stones?" asks Hang Soth. "There are over 1,000 temples in this country, none of which are likely to disappear."
That, fortunately, is beginning to happen. UNESCO is poised to deliver $100,000 for performance-related work (a large sum, given the fact that an evening of ballet here costs a mere $2,000 to mount). The big news is the appointment of Princess Buppa Devi, 56, as Minister of Culture. The King's eldest daughter and the top dancer of her generation, she personally coaches students in the repertory, offering her charges welcome validation. A frail woman, ill at ease with her posse of genuflecting retainers, she allows Mr. Frumberg virtual carte blanche, depending on him for advice in areas in which royal protocol would appear to exclude her. Her first attempt at raising money -- for a cultural festival this year -- ended in embarrassment when the King was obliged to pay the dancers' salaries out of his own pocket.
In the end, of course, it will take more than money to guarantee the continued health of Khmer classical culture. In a generous moment, Mr. Frumberg claims the Khmers "won't need me, as soon as they have their confidence back." But he would be the first to admit there is still a long way to go.
If his work is to be sustained, Cambodia needs a revolution in infrastructure, with a new generation of arts managers able to handle all aspects of production logistics. Only comprehensive government-sponsored training programs can insure the longevity of Khmer arts.
In May, Mr. Frumberg began a five-month job in Los Angeles organizing the World Festival of Sacred Music. He returns to Cambodia in the fall. He has to return: hundreds of thousands of dollars have been pledged on condition that he will be around to administer the money.
Marc Rosasco, an American banker who helped sponsor a new set of shadow puppets for the Royal University of Fine Arts, among other projects, said: "Our decision had as much to do with the individual as the project. Frumberg was truly inspiring on how much could be done to revive Cambodian performing arts, both traditional and contemporary."
Mr. Frumberg is busy planning his return. One priority will be to end the National Theater's hand-to-mouth existence by turning the company into a self-generating concern, with enough money to tour. He hopes to set up theatrical workshops for the thousands of Cambodian orphans, as well as further sponsorship of contemporary plays in conjunction with the Asia Foundation. For such a comprehensive program, new performance spaces are needed, and it is not impossible that the Bassac Theater will be rebuilt.
Now that Cambodia is no longer a pariah state and has retaken its seat at the United Nations, foreign money is starting to trickle back. How much of it will go toward culture is anyone's guess. "The more shows we do," Mr. Frumberg said, "the more Cambodian arts organizations can begin to enjoy the luxury of self-sufficiency. Then, with luck, I'll be out of a job."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fred Frumberg, right, with Ta Tien, a shadow puppet master, in the Celestial Theater of the Vipassanna Center near Phnom Penh, Cambodia. (Mak Remissa for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST KHMER ROUGE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNIST KHMER ROUGE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OPERA (90%); GENOCIDE (88%); DANCERS (85%); DANCE (85%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STRIKES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); YOM KIPPUR (65%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (65%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: PETER SELLARS (57%); MARGUERITE DURAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



575 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 6; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Excursions Growing as a Leisure Outlet

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
THIS year, the 165 guests at the Emelin Theater's annual fund-raising benefit were treated to a spectacular show, a brilliant sunset on Long Island Sound, produced by Mother Nature.
"We wanted something different this year," said John Raymond, managing director of the Emelin in Mamaroneck. "And when we found we were able to book a cruise ship for the event at the Playland pier in Rye, right in our own backyard, we went for it." 
 And, Mr. Raymond added, the cruise was a hit. "We usually hold the event at a club, so this was novel," he said. "It was a beautiful evening. We had an open bar, a silent auction, a very good buffet dinner and dancing. The feedback was good. Our guests had a wonderful time."
After decades of storm damage put the 192-foot pier out of commission, a major restoration, undertaken by the county, was completed in 1997. Angela Sculti, a veteran cruise operator and president of Custom Cruises, became the licensee. Ms. Sculti, whose office is in the Ice Casino at Playland, opened the inaugural season last year with two theme cruises aboard the Centauri, a 49-passenger, Navy-built Admiral's yacht. One cruise, Islands and Mansions, took sightseers on an hour-and-a-half voyage up the Connecticut shore, and the other cruise, Deck Barbecue, provided a three-hour, backyard-style barbecue at sea, capped with a display of fireworks at Playland.
"At $49 a person it was a sellout," Ms. Sculti said, adding that by the end of the season, revenue exceeded expectations. "We were solidly in the black, which indicates that we have a huge potential audience."
The county gets 10 percent of the income, and Joseph Montaldo, the director of Playland Park, said he expected the new source of revenue to increase year by year.
"We're excited about the cruise activity, which has increased this year," he said. "The pier has been beautifully restored, and it adds another dimension to Playland."
Another excursion line is the Klondike, based at Fort Slocum pier in New Rochelle, according to Madeline Pearson, the manager. The line's "Klondike Princess," a 110-foot boat, is enjoying a very good season, she said. "The business, which has been in operation for 14 years, not only runs excursions and cruises," she said, "but our corporate business increases from year to year.
"A normal cruising is down the Sound to the Statue of Liberty and return. We can pick up clients at points in Long Island and Connecticut. We do a lot of weddings and birthday parties on the weekend."
Ms. Pearson attributes the increase in business in part to the robust economy and to the fact that more people like "something different." The excursions are done on demand.
Another excursion line is New York Waterways, based in Manhattan, which runs a series of commuter ferries in the Manhattan and New Jersey areas. New York Waterways has also increased the number of its excursion all-day cruises up the Hudson River to the Hudson Valley and also to Kykuit.
According to Amy Vecchione, vice president of sales of New York Waterways: "The company has added more cruises this year. It's a low-margin business but customers enjoy it so much, it is a wonderful leisure outlet close to home."
A sampling of cruises added this year, from West 38th Street in Manhattan, includes one that goes up the Hudson to Lyndhurst, costing $49; one to Sleepy Hollow, and also new this year, starting in September, will be a cruise to West Point on Saturdays for $69, which includes admissions to the football games, and also a highlights-leaf-watching cruise, starting Sept. 26 through Nov. 7.
One, which is especially popular, she said, is a two-hour cruise that starts in Tarrytown and goes up to Bear Mountain and back and costs $15, $8 for children. Information on the New York Waterways excursions can be obtained by calling (800) 533-3779.
This year, Ms. Sculti has expanded the fleet, adding the Jubilee, a classic 149-passenger restaurant yacht.
Three cruises are offered aboard the Jubilee. One features the Trattoria Bella, an Italian restaurant serving traditional Italian specialties at sea, and ends with a display of fireworks at Playland. The cost is $69 a person. Another cruise on the Jubilee is called Sunday Brunch and is accompanied by a guitarist. Its price is $39 a person. The third cruise is the Weekend Moonlight Cruise, which includes dessert, dancing and other entertainment and ends at midnight. The fare is $25 a person.
Besides the regularly scheduled cruises departing from Playland Pier, a variety of yacht charter packages, aimed at the corporate market or as special events, are also available. Two yachts, the Excalibur and the Royal Princess, both with climate-controlled, fully enclosed decks, can accommodate 100 to 175 passengers.
"One of our staff coordinates the entire event," Ms. Sculti said. "We offer a full brunch or a dinner buffet with unlimited beverage service, starting at $99 a person."
Business meetings at sea are not only free from distractions but also have the advantage of a captive audience. "From a business standpoint, this is good," Ms. Sculti said. "And besides, everyone loves it. It's a little different."
Brides and grooms have been equally enthusiastic. Many have had wedding rehearsal dinners aboard, Ms. Sculti reported.
"Special events, fund-raisers, parties, conventions -- we handle the lot," she said. "And people say cruising is like a mini-micro vacation."
Future plans include tie-ins with area hotels. "We may possibly bring guests by boat, even from the New York airports and arrange for transportation from the pier to hotels," Ms. Sculti said. "We're also looking at the Sound as a highway that will bring people to Playland by ship from Manhattan and Connecticut during the season."
Salvatore A. DeSantis, the Commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Conservation, said the cruises were a "wonderful attraction, and we're investigating additional new uses and recreational opportunities for our pier."
The number to call for information on cruises, group rates and charter packages is 925-1128.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve White and his children, Sophie, 5, and Scott, 2, disembark from the Jubilee, a 149-passenger restaurant yacht, after a recent cruise. Angela Sculti, the president of Custom Cruises at Playland in Rye. (Photographs by Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK WATERWAYS (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CRUISES (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); AUCTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: ANGELA SCULTI (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



576 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Restoring a Century-Old Glass Tower in Chicago

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
SIX decades ahead of its time, the crystalline Reliance Building soared skyward in 1895 as a scintillating rebuke to its somber masonry surroundings, like a diamond in the rough-hewn Loop.
Not until the late 1950's would Chicago again build an office tower with so much glass. 
 By then, the Reliance was a decrepit antique, worth more for its retail space on State and Washington Streets than for the 13 small floors of offices above. First stripped of its cornice, it was then stripped of dignity when its delicate terra-cotta facade was overwhelmed by a neon sign for a discount clothier.
Today, the cornice is back. The terra cotta is crisp and gleaming again. The clothier is gone, and the tea-leaf reader and prostitutes who worked upstairs have been replaced by construction crews.
The Reliance Building is to reopen in September as a 122-room boutique hotel, the Burnham, named for the architectural firm that designed it: D. H. Burnham & Company, best known in New York for the Flatiron Building.
It is an astonishing transformation. Five years ago, the Reliance Building "was on the brink of falling apart," Mayor Richard M. Daley said. The city acquired the landmark building by eminent domain for $1.2 million and undertook a $6.6 million exterior rehabilitation intended to jump-start redevelopment.
The process was not without critics in the City Council, who wondered why City Hall was pouring money into a building that private real estate interests had abandoned. One alderman suggested using the money to blow up the Reliance Building, allowing the city to sell the land clear and free.
In the end, the Daley administration prevailed. More important, it found a private development team -- the McCaffery Interests, Mansur & Company and the Granite Development Corporation -- willing to undertake the last $19 million leg of the journey, with $2.5 million more in city assistance.
Although city officials project a return on the investment in the form of tax revenues and spending, Commissioner Christopher R. Hill of the Planning and Development Department said the money was almost beside the point.
"All the economics in the world really don't matter," he said. "This building had to be saved to give people a better understanding of the history of high-rise architecture in Chicago."
The 5,500-square-foot floors did not make sense for modern offices. But Dan McCaffery, president of McCaffery Interests, said, "When we looked at it, we thought, 'My goodness, you could lay this out in pretty darn good hotel modules.' "
The result -- already apparent on floors where major reconstruction is nearing completion -- will be a remarkable interior, with public hallways looking much the way they did a century ago; not like a hotel at all but like a well-appointed hive of business.
THE original white Carrara marble wainscoting and ceilings are being kept, as are the mahogany trim, transoms and doors; the terrazzo floors; the glass partitions (though there are new fire-resistant walls behind them) and even the doorknobs, mail slots and ornamental hinges, made of a metal called magnetite with a coating that yields a blue-black finish.
Winding through the upper floors will be the original open cast-iron staircase, whose elegant balustrade carries the same decorative device -- a four-petal Gothic flower, or quatrefoil -- that is used in the undulating ribbons of white terra cotta on the exterior.
Rather than enclosing this staircase, as current building codes would require if it were the only means of exit in a fire, the developers are building two new enclosed stairways through the building. They also plan to recreate the ornate, two-story-high elevator lobby.
In addition, one of the original structural columns -- an open, diamond-shaped riser built up from riveted steel sections -- will be left exposed to show how the tower was constructed.
The architects are Antunovich Associates of Chicago, working with the McClier Corporation, an architectural and engineering concern based in Chicago that also prepared a historical structural report on the Reliance and oversaw the exterior restoration.
Given the deteriorating condition of the terra cotta facade, there was no time to lose. "It's amazing that it wasn't raining off the building," said T. Gunny Harboe, director of preservation at McClier.
About 2,000 of the 12,000 terra cotta pieces were replaced. The cornice was recreated in cast aluminum. And the single layer plate-glass windows were replaced with double-glazed insulated windows.
The operator will be the Kimpton Hotel and Restaurant Group of San Francisco. In Chicago, Kimpton already runs the 489-room Hotel Allegro (formerly the Bismarck) and the 193-room Hotel Monaco (formerly the Oxford House), both downtown.
Elements like the quatrefoil motif are being used in the new furnishings and textiles, said Susan M. Caruso, president of Intra-Spec of Marina del Rey, Calif., which is designing the lobby, guest rooms and public corridors.
Ranging from 350 to 450 square feet, the rooms are what a hotelier would call intimate and a guest might call small. Rates will begin at $145 a night for rooms, $195 for the larger suites.
The 21-foot-high ground floor, originally occupied by the Carson Pirie Scott & Company department store, will become the 65-seat Cafe Daniel. The tacky commercial accretions of recent decades have been stripped away. The plan is to recreate the appearance of the original uninterrupted window wall.
Y OU got the sense that the building was floating on this double-height story of all glass," said Brian Goeken, senior preservation planner in the landmarks division of the planning agency. "It's really going to glow. That's the intent, to play off this transparency."
The transparency of the Reliance Building was made possible by steel-frame construction, which allowed for vast expanses of glass because exterior walls no longer had to bear the structural load, as with traditional construction. The central panes in the second-story bays measure almost 8 by 11 feet.
Big windows were not merely an esthetic gesture. They helped capture every bit of available daylight. Artificial illumination at the time consisted of carbon filament bulbs, which gave off an anemic golden glow not much stronger than candlelight.
What glass-front buildings gained in illumination, however, they sacrificed in climate control. And so it was not until the development of modern heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems in the 1950's that they proliferated.
The earliest designs for the Reliance Building were by John Wellborn Root. After his death in 1891, the project was carried to completion by Charles B. Atwood. The hotel will not carry their names, however, but that of their more famous partner, Daniel Hudson Burnham, author of the 1909 Chicago Plan, a sweeping attempt at taming the chaotic metropolis through the development of orderly transportation arteries and public amenities like a reclaimed lakefront.
Mr. Atwood does have his admirers. In "The Chicago School of Architecture" (University of Chicago Press, 1964), the architectural historian Carl W. Condit gave him credit for extraordinary prescience. "One short step further in the design of the Reliance Building and he would have produced the transparent tower that Mies van der Rohe imagined," Mr. Condit wrote. "If any work of structural art in the 19th centur
anticipated the future, it is this one."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Reliance Building in Chicago, left, will reopen as a hotel. A cast-iron staircase, above, winds through the building. (David W. Dunlap/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GRANITE DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%); MANSUR & CO (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MAYORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (72%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD M DALEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



577 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes /Giorgio Cavaglieri;
Near 88, a Preservationist Is Still a Maverick

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
NEXT month New York's senior preservation architect, Giorgio Cavaglieri, whose background includes designing airfields for Mussolini's army and recycling German barracks for the United States Army, as well as work with Rosario Candela, the iconic designer of luxury Manhattan apartment buildings, will be 88.
He remains an important figure in the New York preservation movement, but his views of current preservation practice are anything but orthodox. 
 Mr. Cavaglieri was born in 1911 in Venice; his father was an insurance company executive who gave his family a comfortable life. In 1932, Mr. Cavaglieri graduated magna cum laude in 1932 from an engineering school in Milan, and worked in Italy for a few years before service in the Italian army during the war to conquer Ethiopia. At that time, he designed airfields in Tobruk, Libya, later destroyed in the World War II.
 On his return to Italy he worked for several architects, and on his own -- his office archives are full of photographs of alterations to older Classical buildings in Italy, replacing heavy, traditionally styled spaces with sumptuous marbles worked in streamlined Art Moderne style.
In 1938, Mussolini issued a decree stripping Italians who were Jewish of their citizenship, and Mr. Cavaglieri, seeing little future as a Jew in Italy, came to the United States.
"What happened was bad," he says "but others had it much worse." He got a referral to the Palermo-born Rosario Candela, the Manhattan-based designer of super-luxury apartment houses whose practice was only then rebuilding; at that time, Mr. Cavaglieri says, Candela was working on large-scale housing projects.
Later, notwithstanding his status as an enemy alien, Mr. Cavaglieri was drafted into the American military, and followed Allied troops from the Normandy invasion to Berlin; his task was to adapt captured German barracks for Allied use. He won the Bronze Star for meritorious achievement.
After World War II, he decided to avoid the typical large, corporate practice and form his own firm; in 1957, the Italian magazine L'Architettura described him as a "European-style architect . . . following projects directly in every stage, from the original drawing to the last detail."
In 1948, the managing agent of his 1921 Beaux-Arts style office building at 250 West 57th Street approached Mr. Cavaglieri to "brighten up" the entryway, then a typically elegant but old-fashioned bronze screen designed by Carrere & Hastings and R. H. Shreve.
Mr. Cavaglieri's elegantly economical solution was to replace the bronze with a new glass and stainless steel screen, leaving the elaborate lobby and the rest of the exterior intact. It was like using a modern type face for the title page of the Gutenberg Bible, but the client was satisfied and Lewis Mumford, The New Yorker's architectural critic, praised the work, saying it had "a simplicity, a freshness, and elegance altogether lacking" in the 1921 work.
In the 1950's two separate commissions for altering older midtown buildings into union halls were favorably reviewed, and contributed to Mr. Cavaglieri's growing reputation as an alteration specialist.
In 1963 Mr. Cavaglieri was elected president of the Municipal Art Society, and he became increasingly active on the emerging issue of historic preservation -- arguing against a proposed cafe in Central Park, against a demolition proposal for Grand Central and in favor of preserving the Morgan house at the southeast corner of 37th Street and Madison Avenue.
WHEN the old Jefferson Market Courthouse, on Avenue of the Americas and 10th Street, was up for conversion into a library in 1964, Mr. Cavaglieri was a logical choice for what became New York's most prominent preservation project of the 1960's. "He has clearly defined old and new," wrote Ada Louise Huxtable in a laudatory review in The New York Times in 1967. Mr. Cavaglieri inserted frankly modern elements into the Victorian interior -- counters, travertine flooring, fluorescent lights and a stark catwalk above the main reading room.
The commission to alter the old Astor Library at 425 Lafayette Street into the Public Theater came at the same time, and Mr. Cavaglieri again inserted modern functional elements into an older shell.
Other preservation projects have continued to follow and he has also a done series of contemporary building, like the concrete Kips Bay Branch of the New York Public Library, at Third Avenue and 31st Street.
But Mr. Cavaglieri's ideas of preservation are now at variance with those in day-to-day practice. Now a Jefferson Market Courthouse project would be undertaken in hushed tones, with replica counters, tables, chairs and light fixtures. But Mr. Cavaglieri is unapologetic about his own interventions. "What I did then would never have passed the preservation purists," he says in the rich melody of his Italian-accented English.
Likewise, his 1983 renovation of 801 Madison Avenue -- part of a row of brownstones built in 1881 between 67th and 68th Streets -- with a handsome, but super-high-style red-granite front would probably not be considered deferential enough to prevailing rules about restoration.
And Mr. Cavaglieri is not keen on other buildings which seem to pass contemporary preservationist muster, like the replica-Gothic addition to the Jewish Museum at 92d and Fifth, designed by the modernist Kevin Roche to mimic the original building, which was designed by C. P. H. Gilbert.
"I don't think it would be wise or right to interpret the opinion of a dead man" he says, noting that he admires Mr. Roche's other work. "He could have done something much better, but he knew that kind of solution would get the approval."
His most recent preservation commission was a couple of years ago -- the exterior restoration of the Veteran's Administration Headquarters in Newark, a 1920's building. He also is at work on a series of alterations to five branch libraries, redoing the auditoriums -- "very modest," he says -- and repairs to several day-care centers.
The sense that every building should evoke its own time is still very strong with him, but has probably cost him major preservation commissions in the last decade or so. Speaking of St. Peter's in the Vatican, he says that the overlapping changes make the building richer, not poorer, "because each one is what the politics of the time indicated."
"Michelangelo didn't repeat Bramante's drawings, and Bernini left his own imprint, too," Mr. Cavaglieri says.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Giorgio Cavaglieri, with blueprints in his office, left, designed the main reading room of the Jefferson Market Courthouse library in Greenwich Village, above, and the facade of 801 Madison Avenue, between 67th and 68th Streets. (Photographs by Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); GERMANY (88%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); GERMANY (88%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMIES (91%); WORLD WAR II (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RELIGION (66%); 

PERSON: GIORGIO CAVAGLIERI (96%); ROSARIO CANDELA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



578 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 6; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: Q & A/Kenneth M. Reels;
Chairman's Mission: Strengthen Control Of Tribal Business

BYLINE: By SAM LIBBY

 BODY:
PROMISING to lead the Mashantucket Pequot Tribe in a new direction, Kenneth M. Reels was elected Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Council Chairman by tribal members on Nov. 1, 1998, and began serving his term on Jan. 1.
Mr. Reels has served on the Tribal Council since January 1991, including three terms as vice chairman. 
 In 1995, the Tribal Council assigned the leadership of its Centralization Project to Mr. Reels, the vice chairman then. The intent of the project is to strengthen tribal controls over tribal business, to address the approximately $1 billion debt that has resulted from the tribe's casino and resort development and to plan for the orderly growth of the tribe and tribal businesses.
Mr. Reels has taken a strong personal interest in the tribe's welfare-to-work program, called Work Etc. In conjunction with the state Department of Social Services, the program recruits and trains welfare recipients for jobs at Foxwoods Resort Casino.
He began his employment with the Tribe in 1987 as a property purchasing and contracting officer, and was also a manager in the Tribe's sand and gravel business.
Mr. Reels, 39, and his family live on the Mashantucket Pequot Reservation and also in the family home in New London. The following are excerpts from a recent conversation with Mr. Reels at the tribe's community center.
Q. What were the main points you were trying to make during the recent public forums on Indian sovereignty at New London's Garde Theatre?
A. The forums were an attempt to reach out to the community, to try to inform them about Indian tribes' inherent sovereign rights, about how these laws must be respected, and if people disagree with the laws how they must go through due process to change the law.
It's also to show that the tribe is going in a new direction, that we're not going to tolerate the double standard: the way we're treated and the way others in comparable situations are treated.
The tribe gives a lot. But we're not treated the same as a millionaire from Massachusetts. The state was ready to give Robert Kraft a $400 million stadium, but (State Attorney General Richard) Blumenthal wants to bicker with us about $4 million for state police and other services.
The compact (the Mashantucket Pequot gaming compact agreed to by the tribe and state which allows for Foxwoods Casino) says one state trooper, the same as it is in a town like Preston. The state can't just change the guidelines and make a double standard for the tribe.
Go see how many state troopers are in the casino. There's a lot. We don't necessarily have a problem with them being there. But we have a problem paying for it because its not what we agreed on. It says we have to be audited in the compact. It doesn't say we have to pay for this. The state can put a thousand people (auditors and police) in there. Doesn't mean we have to pay for it.
Q. How to you respond to the tribe's critics who say the laws that allow the tribe to have an Indian casino are based on race?
A. Our goal is to inform people what the law is. The law is based on the Federal Government's recognition that Indian tribal nations are sovereign nations whose sovereignty precedes that of the federal government. The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 recognizes this. The law is based on the government to government relationship between the tribal nation and the Federal Government. It just happens that these sovereign governments are Indian sovereign governments. But the law cannot be based on race and it's not based on race.
Q. Are relations between the tribe and the three towns that surround the reservation, Ledyard, North Stonington and Preston, at a low point?
A. We understand we're next door to people and they have concerns about development. But they have to understand, the Federal Government has jurisdiction over the issues that could arise from development. The people in the towns have a right to comment and we will try to respect peoples feeling.
During the third forum the selectmen from the towns around the reservation could have asked Kevin Gover, (assistant Secretary of the Department of Interior, head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs) and other officials from Washington about the Federal law. But they didn't come to the meeting, and they didn't ask.
Everything we're trying to say is based on law. When they (the anti-annexation people) speak at their meetings they talk with feeling, but what they are saying is not consistent with the law.
Leadership to me is not just responding to the squeaky wheel that's making the most noise, its not about listening to these 12 people who always end up going to the meetings in the three towns and end up yelling at me. That's why we're reaching out to the region. That's why we had the forums in New London. We're reaching out to the majority, to the people in Norwich, New London, Groton, and Westerly. But I still say to the people of the three towns, come talk to us. Come to the forums. Tell us what kind of development you want.
The people in the towns have to understand that we're not the reason they're paying high taxes. We're all about lowering taxes. The focus is who can create opportunity. Who can create jobs. The more people with jobs that offer the benefits that our jobs offer the less money government has to pay. The more businesses paying taxes the less taxes residents have to pay.
This is a stolen land. Ledyard, Preston, and North Stonington have land that we need to get back under our jurisdiction so we can finish our resort, so tribal members can live in our community. It's being selfish when people are keeping their land open land, just so no one else can live on it.
Q. A point you have raised is that the Federal law is a two-edge sword that could work against Indian tribal nations. Are you concerned that opposition to Indian casinos across the United States could lead to new Federal laws that could change the rules regarding the taxation of Indian gaming or the annexation of lands into Federal Indian reservations?
A. We worry about that all the time and that's why we work with national Indian organizations, and make donations to these organizations and hire lobbyists and do whatever we legally can to protect our interests and our rights. This is nothing more, but nothing less than what all groups do in the United States.
Q. Are you concerned about other Connecticut Indian Tribes becoming Federally recognized and establishing competing Indian casinos?
A. In the 1970's all the Connecticut tribes promised to stick together to support one another. That's why I reach out to all tribes. I haven't forgotten where we came from, and what the struggle is. I wish the Paugussett War Chief MoonFace Bear was still here today, because all the struggles he fought are still being fought today.
I know the state-recognized tribes petitioning for Federal recognition are Indians tribes. The state knows this. That's why they're state-recognized tribes.
Our goal is to see Indian country motivated again. We want to bring back the movement that existed in the 1960's for equality, for human rights. We want to have a march from here to Hartford in honor of our ancestors and the battles they fought to maintain their rights, their tradition, which we continue.
Q. During the second forum it was asked whether there's a limit to the amount of land the tribe wants to annex to the reservation. Is there?
A. There are tribes that have sued for a whole lot of land and they have a right to. We're still trying to reach out, instead of just going to court.
Still offering to meet with people from North Stonington, Preston, and Ledyard and maybe we can come to agreement about how much land over so many years can be annexed, and leaving an option for future generations to continue the negotiations. Letting the courts decide doesn't create the long-term working relationship we need. Q. You have acknowledged that the Simond family has traced its ancestry to the Mashantucket Pequot's 1857 tribal list, but you have also said the tribe's constitution legally excludes the family's membership. The constitution allows only people whose ancestors were on the 1900 and 1910 censuses to be members. Are you planning to amend the tribal constitution to let other families, such as the Simond family, into the tribe?
A. Yes, I'm doing that. I know the Simond family and I know their ancestors are Mashantucket Pequot. I also know the Apes family, they're the descendants of William Apes, the first Indian writer in the United States, (who lived during the 19th Century), and some of them work at the museum and its impossible to justify why they can't be tribal members. So I want to amend the constitution so that membership will be based on descent from anyone on any tribal list since the 1637 Mystic Massacre. If you can establish your descent from anyone on these lists you should be able to become a member of the tribe.
This is not about who likes who and who dislikes who, this is about being a tribe and if you're part of the tribe you're part of the tribe and you have a right to live in the tribal jurisdiction.
In the end this is what putting land in trust means. Its about providing for the needs of the tribe for generations to come. Its about providing economic opportunities for everyone.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth M. Reels, Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Council Chairman, says he won't tolerate a "double standard" in the tribe's business dealings. (Gale Zucker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (69%); MASHANTUCKET PEQUOT TRIBAL COUNCIL (74%); TRIBAL COUNCIL (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASHANTUCKET PEQUOT TRIBAL COUNCIL (74%); TRIBAL COUNCIL (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); GAMING (89%); CASINOS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); RESORTS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); DUE PROCESS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: KENNETH M REELS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



579 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In /Pelham Parkway;
A Polyglot Enclave In Central Bronx

BYLINE: By MAGGIE GARB

 BODY:
ON a scorching Sunday earlier this month, the vast lawns at the center of Pelham Parkway were dotted with sunbathers and dog-walkers. Joggers rounded the dirt paths edging the greenspace and young parents pushing strollers meandered along shade-speckled walkways. It was a slice of Paris in the Bronx, a tree-lined boulevard linking Bronx Park to Pelham Bay Park.
"On a summer day, people hang out on the parkway like they're at the beach or at Central Park," said Oscar Cabrera, a broker with the Coldwell Banker Beautiful Homes real estate brokerage. "It's the heart of the neighborhood." 
 The parkway's official name is the Bronx and Pelham Parkway. It slices through the Pelham Parkway neighborhood, a narrow band of apartment buildings and houses that cuts across the central Bronx. To the west lies the 661-acre Bronx Park, which includes the New York Botanical Garden and the Bronx Zoo.
Residential streets are lined with a vibrant blend of housing types, from the Pelham Parkway Houses, a 1,200-unit public-housing development, to half-million-dollar detached houses to the north of the parkway and east of Williamsbridge Road. Eight- and 10-story Art Deco and Tudor-style buildings line the parkway while one-, two- and three-family houses set behind postage-stamp sized yards flank the side streets south of the parkway.
In the summer months, the neighborhood's many gardeners turn their tiny plots into elegant gardens. Grapevines wind across fences and day lilies, gladiolas and impatiens add bursts of color.
While most residents define the neighborhood as any place within walking distance of the parkway, its boundaries are murky. Some say the neighborhood extends just a block or two either side of the parkway, but City Councilwoman Madeline Provenzano, whose district covers Pelham Parkway, says the neighborhood runs as far south as Neill Avenue and north to Waring Avenue.
"The city maps are not clear on the boundaries," she said. "But whatever the boundaries, it's the access to the parkway and the beauty of the parkway itself that defines the community."
The parkway has caused some controversy in recent years as aging trees along the roadway have caused several serious car accidents. Members of Community Board 11 have been pushing city officials to reconfigure the parkway to move traffic away from the trees.
"Right now the biggest issue in this neighborhood is the parkway," said John Fratta, the board's district manager. "The trees have gotten so large that they're right along the street and the slightest mistake when you're driving and you're up against a tree."
Although the Department of Transportation has not yet released its plans, Councilwoman Provenzano said plans to reconfigure the parkway were "in the works" and that $16 million had been allocated in next year's city budget for reconstruction of the roadbed. The work is expected to begin next spring and will last for a couple of years, she said.
If the parkway is the neighborhood's jewel, Bronx House, a settlement house that opened in the South Bronx in 1911 and moved to Pelham Parkway in the mid-1950s, is its heart. Run by the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, Bronx House is a community center, providing social services and entertainment programs for all neighborhood residents of all ages including preschool and after-school programs, a summer camp, a single-parents' support network, English-language classes for recent immigrants, free kosher lunches for the elderly and a mutligenerational chorus. The building, which is on the Parkway at Bogart Avenue, has a gym, indoor pool and meeting rooms. Yearly membership fees are $65 for seniors and $425 for families.
I CAN'T picture Pelham Parkway without Bronx House," said Blanche Comras Roskin, chairwoman of the settlement-house board. "It's the place that brings everyone together."
Ms. Roskin moved to Pelham Parkway in 1940 when the neighborhood was more like a suburb than an urban neighborhood. "We've gone through so many changes," she said. "It's become more congested, more like a city. Lots of new people have moved in, but it still feels a little like a suburban town."
The neighborhood's earliest settlers were German farmers in the late 19th century. By the 1920's, Italian and Eastern European Jewish immigrants were fleeing the tenements of the Lower East Side and migrating to the frame and brick cottages of the central Bronx. In the 1930's, the parkway was closed on Sunday mornings for professional bicycle races.
After World War II, developers blanketed the neighborhood's side streets with one-, two- and three-family brick houses, selling them to Italian and Jewish families.
In the 70's, newer immigrants -- some from the Caribbean and others from Asia -- moved to Pelham Parkway. In the last five years, ethnic Albanians, many from Kosovo, have flocked to the community.
An ethnically and economically diverse neighborhood, Pelham Parkway's commercial streets, White Plains Road and Lydig Avenue, reflect its polyglot lineage. Jamaican and Italian restaurants, Chinese fast-food outlets and kosher butchers pack the storefronts.
Housing prices were relatively stable until about two years ago. As prices in Manhattan soared, prices in Pelham Parkway increased substantially, brokers said. One-family houses, which sold for about $190,000 a year ago, are going for about $225,000 this summer, said Sam Brown, an associate with ReMax Deal-Finders. Two- and three-family houses are selling for as much as $300,000 and $400,000, respectively, said George Bookis, a broker at Aztec Realty.
"If you can't afford Riverdale, then you buy here," Mr. Bookis said. "We're seeing houses sell for the asking price and in certain instances people are willing to pay several thousand dollars over the asking prices. It's been a wild market."
Rentals, too, have gone up, with three-bedroom apartments renting for as much as $1,500 a month and one- and two-bedroom apartments going for $600 to $900, Mr. Bookis said. Residents and interns at the nearby Bronx Municipal Hospital Center often rent apartments in the neighborhood, he added.
Young couples and recent immigrants are drawn to Pelham Parkway by its low crime rates and public elementary schools. The community, which is within the 49th Police Precinct, has the second lowest crime rate in the Bronx, following Riverdale, said Mr. Fratta of the community board.
"It's a very safe neighborhood," said Carol Rawlinson, a social worker who has lived in Pelham Parkway for 10 years. "You don't find the drug element here. Everybody knows everybody, everybody looks out for their neighbors' kids. It's a real close-knit neighborhood."
Ms. Rawlinson's two daughters attended the neighborhood's elementary schools, which she said were excellent. Pupils at the four schools -- P.S. 83, 89, 105 and 96, all within District 11 -- attained some of the highest reading scores for public grade schools in the Bronx last school year.
The children go on to two intermediate schools, I.S. 144 and I.S. 135.
Some parents choose to send their children to one of three Roman Catholic, k-8 grade schools in the neighborhood -- St. Lucy's, St. Clare's and St. Francis Xavier. Annual tuitions for parishioners range from $1,620 to $2,450 and for nonparishioners, $2,160 to $2,750. Tuition at St. Catherine's, a girls' high school, is $3,900 per year.
Mr. Fratta of the community board said the troubled reputation of the neighborhood's Christopher Columbus High School "unfortunately lasts." But, he added, "they have really gotten their act together."
IN the four years since Gerald Garfin took over as principal, Mr. Fratta said, Columbus has shown improvement. Although the school remains overcrowded, with 3,400 students packed into a building with a capacity of 2,400, attendance rates and standardized test scores have improved, Mr. Garfin said. The school's dropout rate has fallen from 7.2 percent in the 1994-95 school year to 3.8 percent last year. Last year 48 percent of the seniors graduated after four years, and an additional 38 percent graduated in no more than five years, he said.
Mr. Garfin, who graduated from Columbia High School in 1960, said that in his tenure as principal he has secured more than $1 million in grants, including $500,000 from the Comprehensive School Reform Demonstration. The three-year Federal-state program finances new courses and curriculums in schools considered "at risk."
Mr. Garfin also said the school had 13 advanced placement courses and a summer program to prepare students for S.A.T. tests in their senior year.
"When kids leave this building, I want them to have the same feeling I had when I left 39 years ago," he said. "And I loved this place. We need to get rid of that negative image. The school is a part of a great neighborhood and they should be working together."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tree foliage hovers over Pelham Parkway, left, looking east from White Plains Road. Brick houses along Bogart Avenue. A bustle of shoppers on Lydig Avenue looking west to White Plains Road. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); "On the Market": 2-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath brick house, 1-car garage at 1821 Bogart Avenue, $195,000. 3-bedroom, 2-bath 2-family brick house, 1-car garage at 1302 Waring Avenue, $217,000. 4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath brick colonial, 2-car garage at 1250 Astor Avenue, $450,000.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER":
 
POPULATION: 23,107 (1997 estimate).
AREA: .60 square mile.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $34,129 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $225,000.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $190,000.
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $160,000.
MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-FAMILY HOUSE: $250,000.
MIDRANGE ONE-BEDROOM RENTAL: $800.
DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 12 miles.
RUSH-HOUR TRAVEL TO MIDTOWN: 45 minutes to an hour on 2 or 5 subway line.
GOVERNMENT: City Councilwoman Madeline Provenzano, Democrat.
CODES: Area, 718; ZIP, 10461.
PONIES AND PILOTS: In the late 19th century, a thoroughbred race track stood in the northeast corner of the neighborhood. The Morris Park Race Track, south of Pelham Parkway along Williamsbridge Road, was owned by John A. Morris, who made his fortune running the Louisiana State Lottery. The track shut down when Belmont Park opened in 1903, and a few years later the site was used for early public trials of powered aircraft. In August 1908 the American Aeronautics Society held an airplane design contest there. The winner, a triplane, "was beautifully designed, but it couldn't fly," said Lloyd Ultan, the Bronx Borough Historian.
 
Map of the Bronx, highlighting Pelham Parkway area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PELHAM PARKWAY HOUSES (62%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (56%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (56%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); WALKING & JOGGING (78%); GARDENING (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); CITIES (62%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



580 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Medical Center Begins to Thrive on Its Own

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: VALHALLA

 BODY:
UNTETHERED from county life support less than two years ago, the Westchester Medical Center, once a department of the county government, has been breathing well on its own on most days, hospital officials report.
"Our problems now are the problems of most hospitals," said Alfred B. DelBello, chairman of the Westchester County Health Care Corporation, which now runs the Medical Center. 
 Without interference from the County Executive's office, the input of 17 sometimes balky members of the Board of Legislators and the tortuous ways of government, the hospital, now officially a public benefit corporation, must survive or fail on its own, Mr. DelBello said.
Edward A. Stolzenberg, president of the Medical Center, described the center's current association with the county as "a very arms-distance relationship" and said that although the Medical Center now pays its own way, he prefers it that way.
It was a little like getting a gift but having to take the giver with the gift, he said.
It has been what both sides are calling a winning deal. From the county's point of view, the release seven years hence from its annual stipend to the public hospital is similarly welcome. Westchester's move to divest itself of the hospital, with its policy of never turning away patients, is expected to save taxpayers $185 million.
For the hospital as well, the economics seem to make sense, and already, the first full year of independent operation has been a success, Mr. Stolzenberg reported.
In addition to operating at 100 percent bed capacity, the the institution, which has a $400 million annual budget, finished last year with a $5 million surplus, compared with 1997, when it was still under the control of the county and finished with a $7 million deficit. The largest source of income for the hospital comes from insurance payments for in-patient services, said Carin Grossman, a spokeswoman for the hospital. Mr. Stolzenberg attributed the gains to the former county hospital's learning to perform like a sleek private business rather than a government bureau.
Part of the Pinnacle Healthcare, a network that includes Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle, Yonkers General Hospital and the Hudson Valley Hospital in Peekskill, the Medical Center is now able to respond quickly in the highly competitive managed-care industry, he said.
In another sign of growth, the Medical Center -- which serves seven counties in the Hudson Valley, northern New Jersey and parts of nearby Connecticut, including Fairfield County -- ended last year with the highest number of organ donations in the state. Besides performing bone marrow and cornea transplants, it is one of only four hospitals in the state offering full abdominal transplants (liver, kidney and pancreas).
Aside from the country's busiest transplant hub in Pittsburgh, Westchester Medical Center has the largest kidney transplant program in the Northeast and the fifth-largest pediatric cornea transplant program in the United States. It also performs the second-highest number of bone marrow transplants in the state.
Continuing its drive toward economic independence, the hospital has obtained a $150 million loan from the Federal Housing Authority to build a 120-bed children's hospital and trauma center. Construction is to begin next month.
Bruce K. Komisae, executive director of the Children's Hospital Foundation, said all rooms in the 250,000-square-foot Children's Hospital would be designed so that parents can stay with their children.
In 1997, the most recent year for which figures are available, there were 743 newborns treated at the hospital, 2,610 pediatric surgeries, 2,100 pediatric emergency room admissions, 54 pediatric burn cases and 26 multiple births (including one set of quadruplets).
Another sign that the institution is taking a new direction is Mr. Stolzenberg's announcement that he is adding programs that will make the Medical Center what hospitals refer to as a quartenary care institution, one that offers more advanced medical procedures.
Tertiary care centers perform open-heart surgery, for example, but not heart transplants, which quartenary care centers do perform. As another example, tertiary care centers perform bone marrow transplants but do not offer gene therapy.
The goal in upgrading, Mr. Stolzenberg explained, is to make the hospital more specialized and less competitive with community hospitals.
Dr. Tauseef Ahmed, director of the Medical Center's Zalmen A. Arlin Cancer Institute, said that the hospital is already taking research it has completed in the laboratory to the patient's bedside -- for example in the area of blood technology. The cancer institute also hopes to establish an umbilical cord blood center by harvesting what Dr. Ahmed said was "now a wasted resource." The idea would be to use the umbilical cord blood, which is rich in basic cells, to treat leukemia patients.
Neither tertiary nor quartenary designations are given by the state, the State Health Department must approve all programs offered by a hospital.
One of the major disappointments for the Medical Center since its spin-off from the county was the Health Department's initial refusal this winter to approve the hospital's application to perform heart transplants. The Medical Center transfers about 10 pediatric heart cases a year to Boston Children's Hospital.
"In the long run, if we do not have heart transplants, we could be adversely affected," Mr. Stolzenberg said, explaining that the hospital would resubmit its application to the State Health Department. "In order to avoid competing with community hospitals, we have to move to the next level."
The Medical Center has state certification to perform cardiac catheterization and open heart surgery, Kristine Smith, a spokeswoman for the Health Department, said.
The Health Department indicated that one reason the Medical Center was refused certification for heart transplants was because it is geographically too close to New York City, where two hospitals already provide those services.
The other approved heart transplant programs in the state are at New York Presbyterian and Mount Sinai Medical Centers in Manhattan, at Buffalo General Hospital and Buffalo Children's Hospital, at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester and at Albany Medical Center.
But Mr. Stolzenberg observed that because the Hudson Valley population served by the Medical Center was separate from the population served by metropolitan hospitals, a regional hospital should be certified for heart transplants.
That was not the only disappointment for the Westchester Medical Center. Early in the spring, a kidney was misplaced in what Mr. Stolzenberg described as a mistake.
"It's not the first time there has been a mistake, although I hope it's the last, but mistakes get made," he said.
As a transplant patient waited for surgery on April 20, his new kidney was mistakenly tossed into the garbage by a worker cleaning up between surgeries, the hospital said. The worker apparently thought a corrugated box in the operating room was empty, and more than an hour later, the missing organ was found in a recycling bin.
The Medical Center said it did not believe the delay affected the viability of the organ.
Looking ahead, Mr. Stolzenberg said that much of the hospital's energy in the months to come would be spent on burnishing its image. He said the purpose would not necessarily be to draw more patients, because beds in the Medical Center are already well used. His concern was that the public not perceive of the Medical Center as "the prototypical county hospital offering substandard care."
Mr. Stolzenberg said: "People think that if they get sick, they'll go to New York City, but if your car slams into a bridge on the Sprain Parkway, it's my helicopter that's going to be there and my trauma center that will take care of you. And it better be good."
Also, hospital administrators will soon focus on solving continuing financial problems. Mr. DelBello said that like all hospitals, Medicare and Medicaid cutbacks continue to undermine the Medical Center's efforts to thrive. Mr. DelBello, a lawyer and former Lieutenant Governor, Westchester County Executive and Mayor of Yonkers, said that managed care companies were "in essence, financing themselves on hospitals' backs" by delaying payment.
Before the county spun off the hospital, the 650-bed medical and surgical institution was fully subsidized and had been since the 1920's. County Executive Andrew J. Spano, Mr. Stolzenberg and the governing board in January signed off on the contract that progressively reduces the county's subsidy, from $31 million in 1998 to $26 million this year and to $20 million in 2000. By 2006, the hospital will receive no money from the county.
Because the Medical Center will need new sources of revenue as its subsidy diminishes, the county is allowing it to build on 33 acres of nearby county-owned land. Mr. Stolzenberg said the governing board was considering building a hotel for people visiting patients and possibly an assisted living residence and even a health club.
The first step toward independence were taken under former County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke. But when Mr. Spano took over, he reworked the initial separation agreement. At the time, Legislator Thomas J. Abinanti, who heads the Health Committee of the Board of Legislators, said the previous administration "had failed to cross its t's and dot its i's" with the hospital. He explained that too many issues had been unresolved, for example, how much the county would pay for services it received from the Medical Center like the treatment of sick and injured prisoners from the County Jail in Valhalla.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: As a private institution, the Westchester Medical Center, below, showed a profit last year compared with a loss in 1997. Above: an operation in progress in a new abulatory surgery suite. (Photographs by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Lidia Mazur, research fellow, and Todd Salomon, student, work on a cell sorter at Westchester Medical Center. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER MEDICAL CENTER (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER MEDICAL CENTER (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COUNTIES (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ORGAN DONATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUDGETS (70%); DIVESTITURES (66%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (65%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD A STOLZENBERG (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



581 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
In a Strong Market, Shortages Bedevil Developers

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
THESE are good times and bad times for home builders in New Jersey.
A strong state economy, low mortgage interest rates and recent stock market gains all continue to feed the demand for new houses. Construction financing is also available, increasing production. Last year the number of housing permits issued rose by 3,327 to 31,345, nudging New Jersey past the 30,000 mark for the first time since 1989, according to state figures. 
 But at the same time, with the state's unemployment rate at 4.9 percent, skilled construction workers are in short supply. So are certain building materials -- particularly drywall, the paper-covered plasterboard used in nearly all interior construction -- and to a lesser degree, insulation and lumber. In turn prices are inching up.
Add to that what industry professionals say is the scarcity and rising cost of properly zoned and approved land and the result, they say, is a tremendous squeeze on the time and the cost of producing new homes. In response, developers say they are changing the way they do business to meet the realities of today's market.
Andrew C. Cattano, director of codes and technical services at the New Jersey Builders Association in Robbinsville, called the material and labor shortage "an increasingly frustrating issue," which is causing some delays in construction projects. Though no one has reported lost sales the shortages "add to the cost of building a home," he said, noting that some builders because of the strong market "try to absorb it in their sale prices, but others cannot because their prices are already at the top."
To counter the situation some builders are working their crews longer hours or hiring temporary laborers.
"There's no slack in the process," said Nicholas Minoia, president of Westminister Communities, a division of the Kushner Companies of Florham Park. "Buyers are selling their current homes quickly and want to move into their new homes. We're bringing in an army of temporary workers to help us get caught up with our delivery schedule."
Mr. Cattano said that he also noted "more use of alternative lumber products like engineered wood, plastic wood and facia board" -- the last two used, respectively, to construct decks, or exterior trim on windows or eaves. The shortage of drywall is more pronounced, he added, and "there really is no substitute for it."
But according to the National Association of Homebuilders in Washington, new drywall factories are scheduled to open later this year or next year, which will increase the supply.
The land issue, however, is the most vexing. In turn, some builders are turning to small, previously ignored sites or to larger tracts that were not developed because the builder did not or could not proceed or were passed over because they were too difficult to build on.
Others are pursuing industrial and commerical sites that could be rezoned for housing. And still others are expanding into the southern or western portions of New Jersey where land is more available.
John G. Udell, president of Weichert New Homes and Land, a land broker and marketer in Morris Plains, said those efforts had kept new home production moving. But, he added, given the housing demand the number of permits issued in 1998 could have matched the 57,000 issued at the peak of the last building boom in 1987 "if land was available."
Other challenges, he said, are the lengthy approval process and land prices, which continue to rise as competition among developers and conservationists increases. Today, land constitutes 35 to 40 percent of the cost of a house, compared with 30 percent several years ago, Mr. Udell said.
A further challenge, added Joanne Harkins, director of land use and planning at the Builders Association, is that "most of what is being built is expensive housing, which is pricing many people out of the new home market." In the first quarter, state figures show, the average price of a new house in New Jersey was $251,000, up from $227,500 from the same time last year.
The Builders Association predicts that construction will slow later this year and into 2000 as the inventory of land for which construction approvals have been received dwindles.
Still, builders are scrambling to bring new homes to the market.
Mr. Minoia of Westminster Communities said his company had extended its focus beyond central and northern New Jersey into both the southern and western parts of the state. An example is Westgate at Beaver Brook -- 107 town houses, ranging in size from 1,700 to 2,200 square feet and in price from $196,000 to $265,000 -- that the company is building on 24 acres not far from the intersection of Interstate 78 and Route 31 in Clinton in Hunterdon County.
GIVEN the "shortage of large land deals in New Jersey," Mr. Minoia said, the company is also looking at sites that are small or outside the state.
Wayne Patterson, a senior vice president at Toll Brothers, of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., a national builder active in the state, said his company was "working a lot harder to find sites" and is searching in areas of the state "that are a little more remote," including Hunterdon and Sussex Counties.
He said that this year Toll had secured 14 sites, some with approvals in place and others that must be taken through the approval process. Among them is a 43-home subdivision just north of Route 181 in Sparta in Sussex County.
"Yes, there is a lot of competition, and land prices are rising, but so are sale prices," Mr. Patterson said. As a result, the market for the higher-priced homes Toll builds has reached some areas where they previously would not sell, including Sussex County, he said. The homes it will construct in Sparta will have 3,500 to 4,500 square feet and sell in the mid-$400,000 range.
Yet even in areas like Sussex County the competition is rising. The Kalian Companies of Red Bank, for instant, sold 38 of 41 homes in a project called Pheasant Run on Route 611 in Green Township and wanted to repeat its success, "but large developable parcels are becoming extinct," said Anthony F. DiLorenzo, Kalian's vice president of sales and marketing.
The company wound up piecing together two parcels totaling 100 acres about a half mile from Pheasant Run. Together they will yield 19 lots and, if further subdivided, perhaps as many as 33, Mr. DiLorenzo said. Half of the site, he added, will not be developed because of environmental and open-space zoning restrictions.
The homes, with 2,100 to 3,000 square feet, will be similar in size to those at Pheasant Run. But given increasing construction costs they will sell for $5,000 to $10,000 more than the earlier ones, which sold for $225,000 to $290,000, he said.
The company was luckier in Raritan Township in Hunterdon County, where it took over an approved 239-unit project from a previous developer who did not move forward. It will have 58 town houses and 181 single-family homes on 95 acres on Dayton Road.
"This is one of the last large parcels with that many lots that we're working on," he added, noting that "we see the future limited to sites for 10 to 25 houses, that's it."
PINNACLE COMMUNITIES of Millburn, which builds high-end single-family homes, is also looking for small parcels, like the six-lot subdivision it recently purchased on McCain Court in Closter. Brian Stolar, Pinnacle's president, said his company was willing to go after the site and pay $2 million "because it allowed us to get into a town in Bergen County" where land is scarce and it had been approved, removing the risk. The houses, averaging 4,000 square feet, will sit on half-acre lots and sell for $900,000 to just over $1 million.
Mr. Stolar said his company also was pursuing previously approved projects that never moved forward because they are on difficult development sites. An example is the 35-acre hilltop site at Ratzer and Alps Roads in Wayne the company has contracted to buy and will close on in three months.
Instead of constructing the 35 town houses in several buildings that had been approved and would have required substantial blasting, Pinnacle will build 35 single-family homes on small lots. By clustering the homes, Mr. Stolar said, his company will reduce the amount of blasting by nearly 50 percent and meet the town's requirement to leave half the site undisturbed. The homes will range in size from 2,500 to 3,500 square feet and in price from the high $400,000's to mid-$500,000 range.
Today's developer, he said, must come up with creative solutions.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, town houses in 107-unit Westgate at Beaver Brook in Clinton. (Nancy Sarno); Right, a rendering of a home in the 41-unit Pheasant Run in Green Township. (Alan Schindler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSTRUCTION (94%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); GYPSUM PRODUCT MFG (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); ZONING (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); 

PERSON: NICHOLAS MINOIA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



582 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2999 words

HEADLINE: Appraisers: Getting to the Bottom Line

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
IT is an innocuous-looking packet of papers, or, these days, an E-mail -- several pages evaluating the "subject residence," floor plans, photos of "comparables" and a dollar figure -- that can make or break a deal: the appraisal.
Clark Halstead, founder of the Manhattan brokerage that bears his name and himself a former appraiser, likens the appraisal to the Oracle at Delphi, "where kings and commoners sat around a hole in the stone until black or white smoke came out -- black smoke means the deal's in trouble, white smoke means clean and green straight ahead." 
 For the appraisal industry itself, however, the road has been rough in recent years -- buffeted as it was by regulatory reform following the savings-and-loan crisis of the late 80's and then radically reshaped by computer technology.
The residential transaction can be stressful for all the parties: buyers, sellers, brokers, even the lenders. "And the appraiser only adds to the stress," Mr. Halstead said. "Unfortunately, the Oracle doesn't speak in this case until late in the deal," often not much before the closing.
The buyer always worries whether the price is too high. "And if the appraisal is below the contract price," Mr. Halstead said, "he is consumed by buyer's remorse and tries to renegotiate, or walks away."
The seller thinks the deal is done, and envisions closing on that next dream house. "So when the appraisal comes in low, he is traumatized, not prepared to renegotiate," Mr. Halstead said, "and feels badly served by that fickle buyer."
The broker, having already mentally deposited the commission, has to scramble. "The broker has two courses," Mr. Halstead said, "get the old appraiser to consider new comparables or convince the parties to use another appraiser."
And another player in the drama, the mortgage broker, under pressure to meet quarterly lending goals, has visions of bonuses dancing out of his head. "Lenders actually refer to mortgage loans as sales: 'How are your sales going?' the boss wants to know," Mr. Halstead said. "Everybody's hanging on this. That's why it's like the Oracle. If you get white smoke, it's party time."
A white puff rose over 18 Bertha Lane in Massapequa Park on Long Island in April when Richard Meyer, president of Meyer Associates, an appraisal company in nearby Bellmore, submitted his valuation for the four-bedroom expanded Cape.
The agreed-upon price for the house, with its new kitchen, finished basement and a rear deck, was $238,000. The appraisal price: a nearly on-the-money $242,500.
And then there was the 1,000-square-foot one-bedroom in downtown Manhattan that, because of an architectural quirk, opened onto a 2,000-square-foot terrace. "People get emotional about outdoor space," said Jeffrey Jackson Satkiewicz, chairman of the appraisal firm Mitchell, Maxwell & Jackson. "And when a property is unique, like that, there's nothing to compare it to."
Black smoke rising.
"The contract price was $1 million," Mr. Satkiewicz said. "We appraised it at $750,000. The buyer tried to renegotiate. The seller wouldn't budge. So the buyer walked away. This was six weeks ago."
"Two weeks ago," Mr. Satkiewicz said, "the same buyer came through purchasing another property; about the same size inside, but the terrace was 1,000 feet rather than 2,000, and they were paying $600,000. They were happy to have $400,000 more in their pocket than to have the extra space."
The process is sometimes no picnic for the appraiser: tramping through and nosing into other people's property, clipboard and tape measure in hand; toting up square footage, noting the gas station behind the back fence, the ancient oil heater; deducting for defects and factoring in upgrades and amenities, like the finished basement, the new kitchen, the fireplace, and, in more rarefied environs, the racquetball court, the sumptuous landscaping, the reflecting pool.
There are hazards to the trade, Mr. Meyer said: "Measuring houses in the snow and falling into a basement window well. Being pulled over by the police in exclusive neighborhoods -- we're taking pictures and it looks like we're casing out a burglary."
"The other day," Mr. Meyer said, "one of my appraisers was doing a two-family in Brooklyn and he was attacked by the tenant. She was being evicted because she hadn't paid rent and took it out on the appraiser."
The 90's have been a tumultuous time for the industry. And in the estimate of Bert Thornton, president of the 19,000-member Appraisal Institute, a trade association, "the profession has changed more in the last five years than in the previous 30."
Perhaps as nothing else, computers have streamlined and standardized the process, rendering an array of data -- from economic overviews and regional residential trends to specific information on the most recent sale of "comparables" down the block -- available, literally, at the push of a button. So, too, can the final appraisal, complete with digital photographs, be E-mailed to the client (usually, though not always, the lender) almost instantaneously.
Hand in hand with the computer revolution has been the ripple effect on appraisers stirred by the globalization of money markets, particularly given the allure of an enduringly vibrant United States economy. "There are no boundaries today," Mr. Thornton said, "so you have a lot of capital flowing in and out of the United States" -- with investors from all over the world wanting a slice of the American home-loan pie through what Wall Street calls securitization. "The loans are pooled," Mr. Thornton explained, "rating agencies rate those pools of loans and they are securitized, sold as shares."
AT the same time, in a market where capital for lending is plentiful and mortgage rates have been low and steady, the computer has made it possible for so-called subprime borrowers -- those with less than exemplary credit histories -- to be granted mortgages quickly.
"The lender requires an appraisal on a property, and these days that is probably the biggest condition for granting a mortgage," said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage research company in Butler, N.J. "In recent years, even folks with poor credit have been able to obtain mortgages, albeit at higher interest rates."
Computers have taken much of the subjectivity, and bias, out of mortgage origination through what is called credit scoring -- the strictly numerical calculation of a borrower's credit history and capacity. That, in turn, expeditiously tells the lender what type of mortgage it can offer. "And that has lent itself to faster pooling and easier securitization of the mortgages themselves," Mr. Gumbinger said.
"Now that virtually any borrower can get a mortgage," he said, "the lender still needs to be reassured that the property has value, and whether it is fairly valued against similar properties. And, of course, that is the need for your appraisal."
Since the late 80's, forces other than the computer have reshaped the appraisal process. In a kind of tectonic convulsion, the industry was rocked by the nation's savings-and-loan debacle, with Government regulators laying part of the blame for that tidal wave of irrational S. & L. lending on the ill-considered and sometimes unethical performance of some appraisers. "There are, as in any profession, some unscrupulous appraisers," Mr. Thornton said.
Dominick Pompeo is president of Diversified Valuation Group in South Ozone Park, Queens, as well as a former chairman and current member of the New York State Appraisal Board, the agency that licenses appraisers. Congressional investigators found, Mr. Pompeo said, "that 50 percent of all losses by S. & L.'s were due to faulty or fraudulent appraisals."
Either the appraised value was so high that it had no basis in reality, Mr. Pompeo said, or the appraiser was simply unqualified. Mr. Pompeo recalled how his office analyzed a lending institution's portfolio and found that it had lent $2 million on a Manhattan property it believed to be worth $4 million, "based on an appraisal by someone who was unqualified."
"What the bank didn't know," Mr. Pompeo said, "was that it was a loft building, subject to the Loft Law, which restricts rents and requires that the building be brought into residential code compliance." The appraiser had forecast rents that were not allowable and disregarded the cost of bringing the building into compliance. The true value, he said, was $600,000.
"There were a lot of improprieties leading to the S. & L. crisis, a lot of shady characters inflating values," said Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, the company that produces the Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Report. "Until then, it was an unregulated profession that was not held accountable."
BUT in 1989, in response to the S. & L. collapse, the Government enacted Title 11 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, requiring that anyone appraising federally insured properties be state licensed, and establishing minimum requirements -- 2,000 hours of field experience (now 2,500), 120 hours of classroom training and passage of a written test.
The law also allowed states to choose mandatory or voluntary licensing status: mandatory meaning all appraisers had to meet the minimum requirements to perform federally related appraisals; voluntary meaning only those doing Federal work need be licensed. New York is a voluntary state -- a choice that has caused some consternation.
In 1994, the Federal Housing Administration shook up the industry again. It discarded its list of 8,000 designated appraisers, chosen by rotation to perform federally related appraisals, and adopted a program called "Lender-Select" -- meaning the lender of any mortgage to be insured by the Government could choose any state-licensed appraiser. Problems arose.
"The lender has a fiduciary responsibility to F.H.A.," said James Park, a member of the Appraisal Institute's client services committee and president of the JP Appraisal Service in Alexandria, Va. But a General Accounting Office study, Mr. Park said, reported that under Lender-Select the F.H.A. insured many homes that did not meet its requirements and, "maybe more importantly, put people in the unfortunate position of buying homes that had significant problems."
In some cases, the buyers defaulted. "F.H.A. ends up holding the property and has to pay insurance to the lender," Mr. Park said. "They then have to sell the foreclosed property, many times at a loss. And, ultimately, the American taxpayer bears the burden."
Mr. Pompeo of the New York State Appraisal Boardis troubled by some shifts in the industry. In the past, he said, banks hired appraisers directly. Now, increasingly, they rely on mortgage brokers to provide clients, so the broker selects the appraiser.
"No longer is the lender a disinterested party because his remuneration depends on the mortgage being completed," Mr. Pompeo said. "If the broker is unscrupulous, and the property has attributes that the bank and the buyer should be aware of," an unethical broker "would wish the appraiser to ignore it. And people who are not adhering to appraisal standards are being rewarded by work from brokers who want a predetermined result in their appraisals."
One trend that pleases cost-conscious lenders, but troubles some appraisers, is the "drive-by appraisal" -- usually employed in suburban settings -- in which the appraiser assumes that the interior of the house is typical of the market.
Last month, to address some of the problems, the Department of Housing and Urban Development announced a Home Buyer Protection Initiative, a program that, among other things, creates an appraisal education program for consumers, mandates greater specificity in identifying building deficiencies and requires that the buyer receive a copy of the appraisal no less than five days before closing.
Although lenders constitute, by far, the majority of appraisal clients, the buyer is entitled to a copy of the appraisal. And it is usually the buyer who pays the appraiser's fee, as part of the closing costs. Fees vary according to the complexity of the property. So, for example, a half-hour perusal by Mr. Meyer of that Cape in Massapequa Park might cost $250, while Mr. Satkiewicz's more extensive inspection of a luxury Manhattan co-op could cost $1,000 or far more.
Upon arriving at the property, the appraiser starts by calculating dimensions -- using a tape measure or, perhaps, a sonar device that, like a bat, bounces a signal from wall to wall, then emits a disembodied voice intoning: "Sixteen feet, four inches."
Then, Mr. Miller said: "We sketch a floor plan, assess the condition of the floors, walls, ceilings, anything visible; and take note of upgrades," like a new kitchen, "and amenities," like the pool.
Through multiple listing services, official records or, wherever possible, actual visits, the appraiser collects information on comparables. "In the case of co-ops," Mr. Miller said, "we get hold of the current co-op financial statement; or, for houses, we're going to town hall or the local M.L.S. to look at recent transfers in the neighborhood."
Then begins the actual valuation work -- a complicated and not entirely scientific process depending largely on the appraiser's knowledge of the community. "Let's say you have two properties that are identical in every respect except for one amenity, such as the view," Mr. Miller said. "In the case of an apartment, the subject residence could have a direct view of Central Park above the tree line, while the same apartment below the tree line might have sold for 15 percent less."
In a typical suburban community, Mr. Meyer said, "upgrades such as new kitchens, a pool, the rear deck could increase values, cumulatively, by 10 to 20 percent of the total value."
UPGRADE by upgrade, amenity by amenity, the home under examination and its comparables are factored in to arrive at an estimate of market value. "It's a mix of the appraiser's objective and subjective experiences," Mr. Miller said.
One morning last month, Mr. Satkiewicz walked through a four-bedroom condominium on the 31st floor of the Grand Millennium at Broadway and 66th Street and was immediately struck by the terrace and its wraparound view of Central Park, the spires of midtown Manhattan and the Hudson River. "It curves around, almost juts out," he said.
His sonar measuring device in hand, Mr. Satkiewicz calculated the terrace at 197 square feet -- just one of a panoply of amenities he would account for during his 90-minute tour of the apartment, but one that, he said, "gives it star quality."
Later, Mr. Satkiewicz returned to his office to crunch numbers.
"There are five comparables on this appraisal," he said, "and they sold for between $976 and $1,129 per square foot." Using that range, he chose $1,000 per square foot as his base for further calculation.
"We adjust for exterior space by comparing sales of identical apartments that have exterior space to those without," he said, "and isolate the value of the terrace."
Saying that research and experience "tell me that terraces are worth half the square-foot price for inside the apartment," Mr. Satkiewicz valued the terrace at $500 per foot. He multiplied the 197 square feet of terrace by $500, for a preliminary figure of $98,500 in added value to the apartment.
"But that's just the scientific part," Mr. Satkiewicz said. "There are things that are not quantifiable but need to be factored in: one is what you see from the terrace; the second is any improvement that enhances its utility, in this case, the terra cotta tiles and the wiring for surround-sound stereo. In my judgment, those add 50 percent to our base figure of $98,500," or $147,750 in added value.
That, however, is just one factor in the equation. "We go through the process for each of the major upgrades and amenities," he said, "and get an adjusted range of sales prices for all the comparables." With the comparables taken into account, Mr. Satkiewicz said, "we select a value within the range that we think best represents the subject's position in the marketplace."
His appraisal of the apartment, which the current owner bought for $2.3 million in January 1997: $3.51 million.
 
Survey Shows Amenity Values
 A survey of what people are willing to pay for the amenities that lift their Manhattan apartments out of the ordinary shows that a health club in the building raises the price by 30 percent and a view of Central Park is worth 60 percent more than the value would be without that view.
The survey was done by the Mitchell, Maxwell & Jackson appraisal company for the Corcoran Group residential brokerage. It uses as its base the average price for two-bedroom apartments (not including lofts) below 96th Street, and then factors in the differences in price for a two-bedroom that comes with a particular amenity.
In 1998, the average price for a two-bedroom was $488,870, according to the report. But, the price of a two-bedroom with a Central Park view, for example, was $782,192, or 60 percent higher than the average price for a two-bedroom elsewhere. And a two-bedroom with a river view was $562,201, or 15 percent higher than the average two-bedroom.
A two-bedroom in a building with a health club and pool was $635,531, or 30 percent higher than the average. One with a wood-burning fireplace was $615,976, or 26 percent higher; with concierge services, $557,312, or 14 percent higher, and with a terrace or balcony, $552,423, or 13 percent higher than the average two-bedroom.
The report also indicated that the price of a two-bedroom in a prewar building was $586,644, or 20 percent higher than the average, and was $640,420, or 31 percent higher, for a two-bedroom in a condominium building. And two-bedroom penthouse apartments averaged $806,636, or 65 percent higher than the typical two-bedroom.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey Jackson Satkiewicz, an appraiser, with sonar device that bounces a signal from wall to wall or floor to ceiling and announces the distance. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); Richard Meyer appraising a home in Massapequa Park, N.Y. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dominick Pompeo, former head of New York's licensing board for appraisers, says 50 percent of country's S. & L. losses were caused by faulty or fraudulent appraisals. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: MEYER ASSOCIATES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); BANK FAILURES (68%); SAVINGS & LOANS (68%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (68%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



583 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
A Crime Fighter With a Zero-Tolerance Policy

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
ABOUT three weeks ago, Joseph J. Santiago started his fourth year as Newark's Police Director by suspending nine officers without pay and denouncing them for what he called an intolerable breach of trust.
Days earlier, some of them had hit a 23-year-old man arrested on charges of molesting a 10-year-old boy, he said. Other officers placed the man in a station house cell and failed to stop prisoners from punching him, he said. And, he continued, others failed to tell superiors about the beatings. 
 Mr. Santiago called a news conference to issue his scolding. As television cameras whirred, he issued a "declaration and warning" to Newark's 1,500 police officers and detectives: police brutality will not be tolerated, and a "blue wall of silence" will not be tolerated. The station house beating, he vowed, would not be allowed to tarnish the department's reputation or undercut his commitment to hold all officers to the "highest standard of conduct."
Mr. Santiago, 51, took command of the department in July 1996 with orders to overhaul its image and performance. Federal authorities had just indicted the director at the time, William R. Celester, on fraud charges, which included spending $29,500 from a police account on vacations and gifts for his wife and girlfriends. In a referendum a few months earlier, Newark voters, by better than 2 to 1, said they had no confidence in the department.
Mayor Sharpe James gave Mr. Santiago, a career Newark police officer, the task of improving rank-and-file morale, putting more officers on the street, reducing police response time to residents' calls, and cutting crime, including drug peddling.
Over the last three years, Mr. Santiago has instituted major changes, developed a reputation as a strong-willed reformer and won high praise from Mayor James. But his public berating of the nine officers and his warning to others suggests his demands for high standards of conduct are ignored by some.
In a recent interview, Mr. Santiago said more "good cops" must tell superiors about colleagues who are breaking the law or department rules and regulations.
"That's not popular here," he said. "Police officers don't want to hear that. A lot goes on because of the silence of good guys. The people who provide protection by silence are as much a problem as the bad ones."
He said that "good cops" have a sworn duty to speak out against those who don't abide by the law.
Since becoming director, Mr. Santiago has dismissed 70 officers, 21 of them for a variety of crimes, including receiving stolen property, said Rocco Malanga, deputy director for public affairs. Forty-nine others have been discharged for violating department regulations, including failing to follow orders, testing positive for drugs, refusing to take drug tests, missing court appearances, and chronic lateness or absenteeism.
From 1996 until the end of 1998, violent crime, including murder, rape, robbery and aggravated assault, has dropped 36.5 percent, from 8,871 to 5,637, the department said.
Mayor James called Mr. Santiago a "role model."
"He's been highly innovative," Mr. James said. "His work ethic is exemplary. And he's been aggressive but fair." He said police officers responded to residents' calls more quickly than in the Celester days, and more patrolmen were visible on the streets.
This delights Mildred Crump, a former councilwoman who voted against confirming Mr. Santiago in 1996.
Ms. Crump, who lives in the South Ward, said she was seeing more and more officers on street patrol chatting with teen-agers. "I think that's wonderful," she said. "It's time we had police officers as role models for kids rather than drug dealers, who pretend they're their friends when they're their worst enemies. Everybody is extremely pleased. They're very upbeat."
Clement A. Price, a history professor and chairman of Afro-American studies at the Newark campus of Rutgers University, said Mr. Santiago had taken over a demoralized force that had lost considerable support in the community. Like Ms. Crump, he praised the increased police visibility on the streets and the drop in crime.
"The department is on top of one of Newark's most notorious problems: street-level crime," he said. "The perception of Newark as a dangerous place has been very much challenged by Mr. Santiago's police force. I think he's done an extraordinary service."
Mr. Santiago, the son of a lawyer and a housekeeper, once thought about joining the priesthood or applying to the United States Military Academy at West Point. But he decided on police work. "I was just drawn to it," he said.
AT 17, he began working with the Newark department as a cadet, shoveling out the stables of the mounted patrol. He graduated from the department's academy in 1969 and rose through the ranks to become deputy chief before Mayor James appointed him director. In 1981, he received a bachelor's degree in political science and history from Kean College.
Mr. Santiago cites several reasons for the drop in crime, including the good economy, the nationwide decrease in crime rates and his management innovations. Since taking over, he has hired 400 extra patrolmen, increasing the uniformed force to 1,500. And he has installed a citywide crime-fighting strategy called Command Status, or ComStat.
The system originated in New York City's police department and was introduced here by Jack Maple, once deputy commissioner for operations in New York. Under ComStat, the location of every crime is plotted on computerized maps, allowing easy analysis of neighborhood crime clusters or trends in each of Newark's four police districts. Every Thursday, the district commanders and their staffs meet with Mr. Santiago and his top aides to study the crime maps and draft crime-fighting strategies. Mr. Santiago requires each commander to devise the strategies. They are then printed in playbooks that all officers and detectives in the four districts receive, outlining their individual responsibility in the strategy.
"It structures their day and activities to focus on a problem in an area," Mr. Santiago said. "In the past, cops went out and were left to their own devices. Police officers worked autonomously. They never worked under direction."
District commanders are also questioned, sometimes pointedly, at the Thursday meetings about any spurts in crime in their jurisdictions.
"It's about accountability," Mr. Santiago said. "It's very uncomfortable, standing up there and explaining yourself and what went wrong. At ComStat, you can't fake it. Either you know your business or you don't. It's a return to a fundamental process: was this done? was that done?"
Mr. Malanga, the deputy director for public affairs, said the questioning about crime increases can sometimes become grueling for the district commanders. "It's almost like they're on trial," he said.
A leader of one of Newark's two police unions, who spoke on condition of anonymity, called the questioning at ComStat meetings an inquisition. The union official called Mr. Santiago an "intelligent guy." "A lot of things he does in theory are fine," the official said. But, he added, Mr. Santiago is also quick-tempered and sometimes browbeats subordinates.
"People skills are not his strong point," he said.
Mr. Santiago brushed off the union leader's criticism.
"They can say what they want," he said. "That comes with the territory. I get conflict from everyone Would you rather have 1,500 disgruntled employees or 300,000 satisfied customers?"
Mayor James also dismissed union grumbling.
"You can't say yes to everyone," the mayor said. "He wants them to work. More's expected of them, and they're doing more and they're winning greater acceptance from the community."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph J. Santiago, the Newark police director, talking about a computer-generated map that shows recent burglaries in the South District. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ETHICS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ARRESTS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); REFERENDUMS (65%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (63%); DRUG TESTING (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH J SANTIAGO (96%); MILDRED CRUMP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



584 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
If the Price Isn't Right

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:
Congratulations! You've just been offered a terrific job with a company you've always admired. The problem is that the salary offer is very low -- not only when compared with industry averages, but also in relation to other salaries at the same company. Sure, the offer is somewhat higher than your current pay, but relocation expenses and higher living costs in the new city will eat up the difference. Should you push for more money, or would that hurt your chances of getting that dream job?
First things first. Have no fear about asking for more money, experts advise. Unless the person making the offer is from another planet, she expects you to do so. If you don't, she might wonder if you're the prize catch she thought you were.
"Look at it this way," said Leigh Steinberg, a sports agent in Newport Beach, Calif., who negotiates pay packages for a living. "If you are selling a car for $10,000 and someone walks up to you and says, '10,000? Sure, that sounds like a great price,' and you execute the sale, you will have a really sneaking suspicion that you underpriced the car." 
 Mr. Steinberg advised assembling an "aggressive" but "not completely irrational" counteroffer to the company. "Research is key," he said. But don't just look at pay scales; study the person across the desk. "Look at the negotiating style of the person," he said. "Do they have a reputation for playing tough until the last minute? A reputation for bullying and blustering?"
That information will help you prepare for the coming face-off. "You cannot let yourself be intimidated," he said.
A practice run can prove particularly helpful for people who are uncomfortable with confrontation, he said. "Have somebody who talks loudly argue this out with you ahead of time," he advised.
In the actual negotiations, use your research to show exactly why you deserve a higher offer, in line with industry standards. "Everyone wants to think of themselves as fair," Mr. Steinberg said, so mentioning your pay concerns to the employer will make her feel a need to respond. Maybe she doesn't have a lot of negotiating room on salary, but perhaps she can find other sweeteners, like a signing bonus or extra vacation.
No matter how frustrating the process, keep your cool, said Tom Wallace, a New York literary agent. Too often, he said, people view such talks as a personal, not a business, matter. "The adrenaline starts flowing," he said. "They get all red in the face."
But an emotional response only undermines your position. When a client becomes upset over an offer, Mr. Wallace said, "I remind them it's not meant to be a slap in the face and that we'll just say no."
Through the negotiations, remember the minimum salary you'll accept. If it's offered, take it, Mr. Steinberg advised, but try to arrange for a salary review in a few months or set up performance goals that will prompt a bonus or pay increase. If this really is your dream job, he said, you may want to get your foot in the door now, then prove your superior value.
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she responds to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: WORKING MONEY&BUSINESS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT WAGES & SALARIES (91%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (68%); LITERARY AGENTS (68%); 

PERSON: LEIGH STEINBERG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



585 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Pamela Addison, A. Gifford Miller

 BODY:
Pamela Beth Addison, a lawyer, was married yesterday to City Councilman A. Gifford Miller. The Rev. Gilbert S. Larsen, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony in the chapel at the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn.
The couple, both 29, graduated from Princeton University, the bride cum laude. 
 Mrs. Miller is an associate in Manhattan with Arnold & Porter, the Washington law firm. She received a law degree from Columbia University. Her mother, Joy Addison of San Mateo, Calif., is the principal of the Jane Lathrop Stanford Middle School in Palo Alto, Calif. The bride's father, Dr. Thomas Addison of Burlingame, Calif., is a professor of clinical medicine at the University of California at San Francisco, and is the director of pulmonology and critical care at UCSF/Mount Zion Hospital in San Francisco. The bride is a stepdaughter of Kathleen Addison.
Mr. Miller is a Democrat who represents the Upper East Side and Roosevelt Island.
He is a son of Lynden and Leigh M. Miller of Manhattan. The bridegroom's mother, a public garden designer, was the designer of the gardens in Bryant Park and oversaw the redesign of the Conservatory Garden in Central Park in 1982. She is also a trustee of the New York Botanical Garden, the Central Park Conservancy and the Parks Council. His father, who retired as the president of the export credit division of American Express in Manhattan, is the treasurer and a director of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, a Federal, state and city economic development program.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARNOLD & PORTER LLP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (55%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (55%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); GARDENING (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: ADDISON, PAMELA BETH (PAMELA BETH MILLER); MILLER, A. GIFFORD A GIFFORD MILLER (92%); PAMELA BETH ADDISON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



586 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
Beyond the Savings Rate

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE Government's announcement last month that the savings rate was the lowest since the Depression has prompted much unease. After all, in a time of such plenty, how can Americans not be putting away some of their surplus to prepare for harder times?
The answer is not only just that we are spending everything we earn. Actually, the savings rate is negative, meaning that we are spending more than we earn. One report says baby boomers, especially, are misbehaving, having outstanding debt equal to 95 percent of annual personal income. Are we embarrassed yet? 
 Well, maybe we don't have to be. William G. Gale of the Brookings Institution says that if capital gains were figured into what we save, then the savings rate would be at its highest in 40 years.
The key here is that saving money isn't the only way to build wealth. If you already own stock, you've generally seen its worth soar over the last decade. And if you already own a home, chances are its value has grown, too. The effect of such gains is that you don't feel so compelled to save a big part of your paycheck.
The buildup of wealth "has a tremendous influence on what boomers do during their working lives," said John Gist, associate director of the Public Policy Institute at AARP, co-author of a study on boomers' saving.
"If they know they'll also have a pension, Social Security," Mr. Gist said, "that affects how much of their income they'll save."
Boomers' wealth has indeed climbed steadily. Mr. Gist said that from 1984 to 1994, the latest year for which data are available, the median net worth of boomers -- those born between 1946 and 1964 -- more than tripled, from $12,989 to $41,500 (all figures in 1994 dollars). In 1994, boomers' median wealth equaled 130 percent of their annual salaries, versus 46 percent in 1984.
These are strong numbers, and capital gains are a huge part of them. Mr. Gale and John Sabelhaus of the Congressional Budget Office, have found that since 1995, capital gains have accounted for more than 80 percent of growth in household net worth.
The most comfortable beneficiaries of rising home and stock prices have been older boomers -- those born by 1954. Mr. Gist has found that those born later don't have the savings that older boomers had at the same ages.
In 1984, when many older boomers were in their 30's, they had an average net worth of about $34,000, in 1994 dollars, according to Mr. Gist. In 1994, when the younger boomers were in their 30's, their net worth was $23,000, on average.
It's not that the older boomers are necessarily smarter. They were just lucky enough to hit their economic stride when housing was cheaper and income growth was stronger. They also tended to marry younger, a factor that leads to higher savings. Ten years later, those advantages have resulted in fat 401(k) plans and high home equity.
Beginning in 1982, as stocks were climbing, older boomers "were starting to make very good money," said Ray Ferrara, of Provise Management Group, a financial planning firm in Clearwater, Fla. "The younger baby boomers are just now 35 and just starting to make some decent incomes, but not as good as their older brethren."
Elaine Gonzalez of Tampa, Fla., and her husband, David, are younger boomers who are trying to save for a home, but it's slow going. Although they started putting money in a universal variable life insurance policy, which has investment value, more than 10 years ago, they didn't do much else. In the past year, they enrolled for the first time in 401(k)'s.
"We just have enough money to pay our bills and have a bit of a balance in our checking account," said Ms. Gonzalez, 39, a customer service representative in the travel division of American Express. "We don't have a savings account or anything like that. I'm putting some money aside, but I'm not going to kill myself now to put every single cent I have into the future."
The capital gains that have helped the older boomers make up for a low savings rate, of course, could be our fool's gold. Who can predict where markets will be by the time we retire? But we always have been a confident generation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); AARP INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); AARP INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PERSONAL FINANCE ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); 

PERSON: JOHN GIST (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



587 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/2000 Jaguar S-Type;
A More Compact Cat With a Classic Face

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
IF the least expensive car you offer costs $55,000 and you want to double your sales, what can you do? For Jaguar Cars Ltd., the answer seemed simple: Develop new, more affordable models to attract customers who might like a Jag but had never thought they could afford one.
Moving down-market can be risky. Mercedes-Benz had to change the design of its A-Class after that subcompact, which is sold in Europe but not in America, rolled over in safety tests. DaimlerChrysler's sales of the Smart, a tiny, innovative car developed with the Swatch watch company, have fallen short of expectations. 
 Jaguar has no plans to sell anything as small as the A-Class or the Smart; the Ford Motor Company, Jaguar's parent, will put other nameplates on its econoboxes. Still, within a couple of years there will be a compact Jaguar sedan, sized and priced similarly to the Mercedes C-Class. And for 2000 Jaguar is offering the S-Type, which competes with medium-sized luxury sedans like Mercedes's E-Class and BMW's 5-Series.
Starting just above $40,000, the S-Type is about $15,000 less the Jaguar XJ8, and the company expects it to attract younger buyers. Jaguar plans to sell about 20,000 S-Types annually in the United States.
My test drives of two versions of the smaller Jaguar, plus strong early sales figures, suggest that the company is on track. Though less expensive than its siblings, this cat shares the traits of its species: distinctive appearance, luxurious accommodations and powerful, graceful performance.
 The rear-drive S-Type feels, looks and acts like a Jaguar although it shares its basic architecture with the Lincoln LS -- the first instance of "platform sharing" since Ford bought Jaguar in 1990. But the engineers have done a remarkable job of disguising the common underpinnings. The LS feels stiffer, firmer and -- in a first for Lincoln, quite Germanic; the S-Type is silky, smooth and plush in the British tradition. This platform will also be used for a very American car, the 2001 Ford Thunderbird.
I did not immediately fall in love with the look of the S-Type, as I typically do with Jaguars. The car seemed to lack the brand's usual sexiness and glamour, as exemplified by the drop-dead-gorgeous XK8 coupe and convertible. But others clearly disagreed; many people I encountered thought the car was stunning, and as I see more S-Types on the roads, its styling has grown on me.
The car certainly resembles the high-performance 3.8 S-Type of the 1960's. In particular, the new S-Type's most prominent feature is an elliptical vertical-bar grille straight out of the Jaguar history book. In fact, the much-celebrated Mark II 3.8, built from 1959 to 1967, provided inspiration for Geoff Lawson, the design impresario for the company who died recently at age 54.
But while current Jaguars generally have the most shapely rumps on the road, the S-Type's rear end doesn't stand out. The back was raised to create more trunk space for the car's presumably more practical owner. At 13.1 cubic feet, the space is about right in this class, but it is shallow, requiring that suitcases be laid flat.
While the silhouette is similar to the 1960's models after which the S-Type was patterned, its proportions differ from its modern siblings, with their low roofs, long hoods and tapered tails. This is largely due to the car's more compact size; it is 6.5 inches shorter than the XJ8. And the rear window evoked the Lincoln Town Car more than the bigger Jaguar.
Inside, though, this is clearly a Jaguar, down to the distinctive scent of the soft leather. There is rich wood, of course, but it is a lighter "mushroom-stained maple" than the walnut used on other models.
The S-Type officially accommodates five, but its back seat is on the tight side for a car of this size. The front seats are extremely comfortable and supportive.
The car has the usual luxury-class safety features: dual front air bags, side bags up front, traction control and anti-lock brakes. It can be equipped with all kinds of gadgets, including rain-detecting windshield wipers; a stability control that selectively applies the brakes to help prevent skids, and an obstacle-detection system that beeps as the car backs toward an object or a person. You can have a satellite-guided navigation system with Jaguar Assist, which sends help if an air bag deploys. The navigation controls were not at all intuitive; lacking a user's manual or verbal instructions, I repeatedly tried to program a destination. Frustrated, I gave up every time.
The S-Type can be ordered with a $4,300 communications package that includes the most expansive use of speech recognition in any auto on the road today. Using simple voice commands, the driver can make calls on the cellular telephone, set the radio station, play a compact disk or cassette tape and adjust the heat and air-conditioning. In total, the system allows 44 commands.
The S-Type's driving dynamics are excellent, and the car delivers graceful power in a purely Jaguar way. The base engine is an all-new 3-liter V6 rated at 240 horsepower and 221 foot-pounds of torque. Also available is a 4-liter V8 (281 horsepower, 287 foot-pounds) used in other Jaguars. The new Lincolns have versions of both engines. The S-Type comes only with smooth five-speed automatic transmissions; there will be no stick shift for the United States.
Subtle character differences exist between the V6 and V8 models. The S-Type with the V8 obviously has more raw power -- impressive power, indeed, for highway cruising and passing maneuvers. But the V6 may appeal more to enthusiast drivers, since that car's lighter weight makes it feel more nimble. An optional sport package ($1,100) adds more spirited performance to either version with larger wheels, performance tires and "Cats," for Computer Active Technology Suspension, which automatically adjusts the ride from firm to soft depending on how the car is driven.
Jaguar has for decades had the stigma of inferior quality and dreadful reliability, but all that seems to have changed since Ford took over. In the most recent ratings by J. D. Power & Associates, Jaguar ranked at the top in initial quality, after hovering near the bottom of the list only seven years ago. And Jaguar has cleverly priced the base versions of the S-Type a few thousand dollars above the equivalent new Lincolns, but a few thousand below the 5-Series and the E-Class.
 
INSIDE TRACK: Feline grace in a practical, less pricey package.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jaguar's 1964 S-Type, along with some other past models, helped to inspire the design of the company's newest, least expensive car.
 
Chart: "Performance and Excellence, European and Japanese" lists features and specifications for selected lower-priced luxury models.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); JAGUAR CARS LTD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SEDANS (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (77%); CATS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



588 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 6; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Bevin O'Brien, Jason Trennert

 BODY:
Bevin Louise O'Brien, a daughter of Louise O'Brien and Dr. Joseph L. O'Brien of Tenafly, N.J., was married yesterday to Jason Richard Trennert, the son of Phyllis DeSena Trennert and Richard Trennert of Smithtown, N.Y. The Rev. Paul Keenan performed the Roman Catholic ceremony at the Church of St. Thomas More in New York.
The bride, 31, is an associate in the corporate communications department of Financial Security Assurance, a New York bond insurance firm. She graduated from Trinity College in San Antonio. 
 The bride's father, a neurologist, retired as a clinical professor of neurology at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York.
The bridegroom, also 31, is an economist and a vice president at International Strategy and Investment, an economic research firm in New York. He graduated cum laude from Georgetown University and received an M.B.A. degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
The bridegroom's parents, who are retired, taught English at Hauppauge (N.Y.) High School.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FSF (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); NEUROSCIENCE (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, BEVIN LOUISE (BEVIN LOUISE TRENNERT); TRENNERT, JASON RICHARD LOUISE O'BRIEN (78%); JOSEPH L O'BRIEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



589 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Global Food Fights: The Worst Are Yet to Come

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt.

 BODY:
FARMERS in Vermont know what they don't like: mud season, summer tourists who hang around the town green too long after buying their maple syrup, and agricultural imports from Canada. Now add one more to the list: the World Trade Organization.
Last week, in a sometimes raucous meeting in a chapel here within view of Lake Champlain, they implored a team of American negotiators to keep the World Trade Organization from running their lives from the shores of Lake Geneva. "The W.T.O. is a farce," said Susanna Jones, an organic farmer and political activist here. "It was created as a shield to protect corporate profits around the world. Why do we put up with a central organization that can tell us how we can farm and what we can eat?" 
 Good question, and Ms. Jones is not the only one asking it.
Farmers in Europe are screaming about the W.T.O., too, but for different reasons. While American farmers view the rule-setting group as a kind of mysterious and unaccountable body issuing edicts from Switzerland, Europeans think it is just a tool of the United States. How else to explain the W.T.O.'s rulings that Europeans must drop rules against genetically modified farm products from America, or face sanctions?
In Geneva, the view is different still. From the inside, the W.T.O. looks like a disorganized disaster, so plagued by infighting that it took months to agree on the next director-general to run the place. In the end, they struck a compromise last week that left everyone unsatisfied: having each of the top two candidates serve for half the six-year term.
In short, five years after its creation, the World Trade Organization is making everyone unhappy -- probably just what you would expect from the first international body charged with dragging entrenched interests around the world into a global trading system that operates by global rules.
UNTIL recently, farmers haven't had to worry much about those rules. Farm subsidies and import restrictions on agricultural goods have usually been too hot politically for negotiators to handle. But now they will be the main subject of the next big round of global trade negotiations, which begins later this year in Seattle.
And you can hear the screaming from Osaka and Oshkosh and Orleans. Farmers, already smarting from record low prices for soybeans and corn and apples, are fearful that the all-powerful W.T.O. ("Would you like to see our black helicopters?" one official of the organization asks, mocking the conspiracy theorists) will force changes they have long resisted.
So the Japanese are trying to torpedo the talks before they start, saying they won't give an inch on rice or other products crucial to their "food security." The Europeans say that, for the health of their residents, anything genetically modified will be banned. France's farm minister undiplomatically noted last week that the United States had the "worst food in the world."
And then there are all those unhappy American farmers, who cannot agree among themselves precisely what the United States should be trying to get out of these negotiations. Certainly not freer trade with Canada, milk and dairy farmers told August Schumacher, Undersecretary of Agriculture, because the United States would be the loser. Vermont's organic farmers sound a lot like the Europeans. They, too, rail against genetically modified products, and a few activists demanded that the corporate charters of companies like Monsanto be revoked.
Big corporate farmers -- who are also big political contributors -- want the global rules written to allow them the widest latitude possible in using genetically modified seeds, which will soon account for two-thirds of America's soybeans and half its corn. "Our goal is to give people around the world the choice of what kind of agricultural products they want to buy," said Peter Scher, who runs the negotiations for the United States Trade Representative's office.
But what Washington calls choice, the Europeans and Vermonters call dangerous arrogance. Right now they are fighting over what kind of labels go on the American goods, because the Europeans know that a big, easy-to-read "GM" for genetically modified will assure that the American goods rot on the shelves.
A result is that the superpowers are about to clash over supermarkets.
It is the kind of battle that sounds technical, but quickly pits powerful political forces on several continents against one another. After all, the battles over bananas and beef have already risen to the presidential level several times.
As elections near, both in the United States and abroad, protectionist sentiment is bound to turn small food fights into bigger ones. And for all its talk about the benefits of global trading rules, it is still unclear that Washington will be able to convince farmers here that the W.T.O. is less threatening than a carload of leaf-peeping tourists with New York plates. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%); JAPAN (66%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (78%); OSAKA, JAPAN (66%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%); JAPAN (66%); VERMONT, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (78%); OSAKA, JAPAN (66%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE; FOOD AND COOKING; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (79%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); CONSPIRACY (75%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); FOOD SECURITY (63%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



590 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
At Last, the Euro Looks Ready to Climb

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE euro, Europe's single currency, has made a rebound in the last week and a half that investors should not ignore.
After falling 13 percent since its January debut, to a low of $1.0136 on July 14, the euro has jumped 3.6 percent, to $1.0503. More important, some currency analysts think that the euro's worst days are behind it. 
 "It's a very critical juncture," said Karen E. Parker, the currency strategist at Chase Manhattan Bank. The reason, of course, is that market turns offer investors an inviting opportunity.
In this case, Americans can buy European stocks or bonds while they are still relatively cheap in dollar terms. Then, if the euro strengthens, they can watch it magnify their returns. That would be the opposite of what happened in the first half of the year, when the euro's plunge eroded Americans' gains in European stocks -- sometimes turning them into losses.
At the beginning of the year, the consensus, especially among European strategists, was that the euro would rise. Ms. Parker, however, predicted a decline, although she did not anticipate how fast it would be.
Now her outlook is changing. "We're on the verge of calling a bottom in the euro," she said.
Any long-term turnaround for the euro requires a shift in the economic growth trajectories of Europe and the United States: Europe's growth must accelerate, and America's must slow. If that happens, investing in Europe will become more attractive and the money that flows in will help lift the euro.
Several reports last week indicated that the shift might be starting. The Ifo economic research institute reported that its index of business confidence in Germany, Europe's largest economy, jumped to 92.9 in June, from 90.5 in May. The increase was bigger than expected and could signal that businesses are ready to increase investment and hire more workers, all prerequisites for a good economic rebound.
In the United States, the May trade deficit, a record $21.3 billion, indicated that surging imports and slowing exports were putting a drag on economic growth. In the wake of the report, Chase reduced its forecast for second-quarter economic growth to an annual rate of 2.5 percent, from 3 percent.
The growing trade deficit also has a benefit of its own for the euro. As the United States imports more goods, foreign businesses reap more dollars. The exchange of those dollars into local currencies weakens the dollar and lifts the other currencies.
The euro could also be lifted faster and farther if investors who have been shorting the euro all year are suddenly forced to switch their positions to avoid big losses. That may already be happening.
Ms. Parker warns, however, that this euro rally could fade. A long-term rally, she said, depends on the enactment of broad economic reforms in Europe, including corporate tax cuts, changes in pension and other employee benefits and easing of restrictions on cross-border mergers. Those changes, she said, would spur growth.
Still, she said that signs of revival in Europe -- combined with the narrowing gap between higher United States interest rates and lower European ones -- mean that the euro might bottom at $1.03 in the next two months and could climb as high as $1.08 in the year ahead. That would leave it 7 percent below its debut level.
Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and a self-proclaimed euro-skeptic, has taken his own conversion a little further. He thinks the euro could jump quickly to $1.10.
TAKING advantage of a turn in markets is among the most difficult tasks for investors. And the bounce of the euro in the last week and a half is just one example of how fast the outlook for a currency can change. That is why some money managers ride out market declines rather than betting that they can get out and then get back in at just the right moment.
Nonetheless, the euro opportunity is attractive. If this is not the bottom, it probably isn't far away. And if you believe that Euroland is turning around, getting in today will not seem so late a year from now.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph "Continental Drift" plots the daily close of the Euro as compared to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (57%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (57%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (57%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE; EUROPEAN UNION EURO (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BONDS (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (66%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (63%); 

PERSON: KAREN E PARKER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



591 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
Little Asias, Across Dixie

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
WHERE can you find immigrant entrepreneurs from Asia revitalizing urban neighborhoods today?
Try the South. 
 Large-scale Asian immigration is a relatively new phenomenon in the states of the former Confederacy, beginning in earnest only in the 1970's, after the Vietnam War ended. The first clusters appeared in the big metropolitan regions of Atlanta, Dallas and Houston. By the 1990's, the Asian population in the South was growing rapidly, increasing by almost half from 1990 to 1996, to nearly 1.5 million. And with the immigrants came the same entrepreneurial culture that has been at work in older Asian-American communities for decades.
Asian immigrants now head south for many of the same reasons that other business people do: low housing costs, rapid economic growth and a generally pro-business political environment. Nowhere is that more evident than in Houston, which over the last quarter-century has become home to the South's largest Asian-American business community.
Houston's wave has been led by people like Don Wang, founder and chief executive of Metrocorp Bancshares, the parent of Metrobank, the largest of the city's six Asian-American-owned banks.
When he came to Houston in the early 1970's, Asian-owned business barely registered in the dizzying energy-led boom. As the boom fizzled, Houston began bleeding population, with 140,000 residents, mostly white, leaving the region in the 1980's. But Asian and other immigrants began arriving in growing numbers. The city's Asian-born population swelled from 2,500 in 1965 to 67,000 in 1990, and demographers expect the 2000 count to be 100,000-plus, or more than 7 percent of the city's residents.
"In the 70's, oil made Houston boom, but it also brought in immigrants," said Mr. Wang, whose bank, now 12 years old, is now the fourth largest based in Houston. "When the oil crisis came, everything dropped, but it actually was our chance to become a new city again."
In contrast to the American-born residents who left town during the oil bust, he said, Asian immigrants saw the region's slump as an opportunity to acquire real estate, buy homes and start businesses in fields like food processing, distribution and electronics assembly.
The results are most striking in Houston's close-in suburban districts, just outside the Interstate 610 loop that encircles the center of the city. The Bellaire Road area, once a declining working-class neighborhood of aging shopping centers, has become widely known as Houston's new Chinatown. Crowded with Asian-owned banks, including Mr. Wang's, and an array of Asian-oriented grocery stores, restaurants and business service firms, it looks and feels less like the Texas oil patch than like Flushing, Queens, or the San Gabriel Valley east of Los Angeles.
"Well, we still have one fried-chicken place left somewhere around here -- it's kind of the last outpost of the native culture lost amid the new Chinatown," Chao-Chiung Lee said over dim sum in one of the area's many Asian-oriented mini-malls. Mr. Lee is president of Stoa International Architects, which has designed many buildings in the area.
ASIAN immigrants have also been responsible for the rapid growth of the adjacent Harwin corridor. Once a forlorn strip of office and warehouse buildings, the area has been transformed into a car-friendly bazaar for off-price goods for much of East Texas. Discount furniture, novelties, luggage, car parts and electronic goods are sold by more than 800 shops owned largely by Chinese, Korean and Indian merchants, up from roughly 40 a decade ago. In that time, commercial property in the district has more than tripled in value, and vacancies have dropped from nearly 50 percent to the single digits.
Asian-American businesses have also contributed to a turnaround in some long-depressed parts of the city center, including the vicinity of Houston's tiny original Chinatown. Among the most successful of the food processors, grocery companies and restaurants now there is Kim Son, a large Vietnamese restaurant founded by seven members of the La family, who escaped their homeland and survived a harrowing stay in a refugee camp in Indonesia before reaching Houston, nearly penniless, in 1980.
Each of the seven began working 12-hour, minimum-wage shifts at a convenience store, and within two years the family had accumulated $20,000 in savings, according to Tan La, now 39.
In 1982, Mr. La, his parents and his siblings used their savings to open a small restaurant, which grew rapidly even while Houston's economy was sputtering. "Times were tough, but people were still eating," he said. "Maybe it was that the price was reasonable, very affordable. The regular Houstonians kept coming in."
Today, with Houston on the rebound, the regulars keep flocking to the downtown restaurant, which now sprawls over 11 times its original space. Branch restaurants in two other locations, including one in the affluent, mostly white Galleria district, lift the family business's annual sales above $7 million; 200 people work for the company.
"Houston is really changing," Mr. La said with a slight smile. "People want to come downtown now. It's become a very good environment. It has to do with us but also with these Texans -- they are adventurous and like to try new things."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tan La in Kim Son, a restaurant he and six family members opened in Houston in 1982 after fleeing Vietnam. (Photographs by Patty Wood for The New York Times); Don Wang, who founded Metrobank 12 years ago, said the oil crisis in Houston brought opportunities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCBI (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (96%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROCORP BANCSHARES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (90%); TEXAS, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (96%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SOUTHERN STATES (US); SMALL BUSINESS IMMIGRATION (93%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CITIES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); SUBURBS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); RETAILERS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (57%); EXECUTIVES (52%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: DON WANG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



592 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Agent for the Women of the Hour

BYLINE: By CAROL MARIE CROPPER

 BODY:
SUE RODIN's trip to the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta changed her professional life. Having watched two of her marketing jobs disappear -- one in a corporate downsizing and the other after an unsuccessful spinoff -- Ms. Rodin, then 49, was wrapping up a consulting stint with Avon, a sponsor of the Games, and considering starting a business of her own.
Sitting in the stands, she watched as American women snared gold medals in basketball as well as in soccer and softball, two new Olympic events for women. The seats were filled, she noted, and not just with females. 
 On the flight back to New York, Ms. Rodin said, she had an epiphany. "The whole thing about women's sports kind of crystallized at that time," she said. "The Olympic experience reinforced for me that there could be an opportunity if I specialized in women's sports -- that there might be an opportunity to make a difference and make a living."
Ms. Rodin is now one of the few sports agents specializing in representing women. Three of her nine clients are soccer players basking in the adulation after the American team's victory in the Women's World Cup -- the co-captain, Julie Foudy; Carla Overbeck, and Tiffany Roberts.
In fact, her first client was Ms. Foudy, whom she signed in 1996. Ms. Foudy said she considered going with a larger agency, but decided that she did not want to be a small fish in a big pond. "I think what I like about Sue is she is really committed to women's sports," Ms. Foudy said. "We didn't need to sell her on the idea that this team was going to be big or that women's soccer was going to be big."
Last Tuesday, Ms. Rodin talked on the phone in her modest, windowless Manhattan office with marketing executives at Sports Illustrated for Women, trying to juggle plans for a luncheon with them on Wednesday with a commitment the same day with Women's Sports & Fitness magazine. The previous day, her soccer clients had met President Clinton, and that night they would appear on "The Late Show With David Letterman."
Promoting her female clients was not always an easy sell, Ms. Rodin allowed, but now "I'm not necessarily calling people," she said. "They're calling me."
Suddenly, manufacturers are mailing her products that they hope her soccer players will endorse. And she no longer has to spell Ms. Foudy's name to the people in marketing departments at cosmetics companies.
Despite the media hoopla over the soccer team's triumph, it has yet to yield any of the million-dollar endorsement deals that athletes dream of, and Ms. Rodin still commutes to her office from Queens, where she grew up.
But prospects are improving. According to Ms. Rodin, the soccer players' speaking fees have already doubled: Ms. Foudy now commands $10,000 an appearance. And Pepsico, a sponsor since 1996, has announced it will back the team's fall tour and use Ms. Foudy and the goalkeeper, Briana Scurry, as spokeswomen for Pepsi-Cola and Aquafina bottled water. That deal will earn Ms. Foudy fees "in the five figures," according to Dave DeCecco, a spokesman for Pepsi.
And Ms. Rodin has rising hopes for a doughnut deal for Ms. Foudy. "She loves doughnuts," Ms. Rodin said. "She's addicted to doughnuts. Everyone who knows her knows about that."
It remains to be seen how successful the soccer stars and Ms. Rodin's other clients will be at landing the kind of endorsement deals that enrich male stars like Michael Jordan and Tiger Woods.
Nationally televised team sports are a new phenomenon for women. The Women's National Basketball Association, the first women's league to win wide attention across the country, was founded only two years ago. No professional soccer league has emerged.
Without continuing exposure on television, a female athlete who excelled during the Olympics, say, has less luster for advertisers than a male professional player, said Bob Williams, president of Burns Sports, a sports marketing company that helps companies sign athletes for endorsements. The top male athletes garner endorsement income of $10 million to $45 million a year, he said, while the leading women draw no more than $6 million.
Henry Schafer, executive vice president with Marketing Evaluations/ TVQ, a company that rates celebrities on their public appeal, noted that no female athlete has scored in the top 10 since the firm began conducting surveys on popular athletes in 1988. But women's participation in sports has been rising steadily for decades, ever since Federal law began requiring public high schools and colleges to spend equally on men's and women's sports programs.
Not only are women more interested in sports, but they are buying more of the merchandise advertisers want to sell. Over all, women now spend more on sports apparel and athletic shoes than men do, according to the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association, a trade group.
Ms. Rodin, 5 feet 9 inches tall, played softball and basketball as a teen-ager -- well enough, she thinks, to have played in college on a scholarship if such things had been available then.
Women's sports have come a long way since her own youth, but Ms. Rodin has few illusions. "I think we're making progress, but it takes a little time economically," she said, a bit wearily. "We just can't expect to go from ground zero to million-dollar contracts overnight."
But she added, brightening: "For once in our lives, we have a little leverage."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sue Rodin, sports agent, stood behind her client, Julie Foudy, co-captain of he United States women's soccer team, as she signed autographs at Grand Central Terminal in New York. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: PEPSI-COLA WEST (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; SPORTS SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); OLYMPICS (91%); WOMEN (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); SOCCER (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); WOMEN'S MARKET (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (73%); COSMETICS (72%); BASKETBALL (71%); TOILETRIES MFG (60%); 

PERSON: RODIN, SUE DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



593 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Can Profits Keep Surging All Year? A 'Yes' Vote

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
CORPORATE AMERICA is rolling in dough. So too, it must be added, are those who have bought and held shares during the last few years. This is not an incidental relationship.
The reporting season for second-quarter profits is about half over, and the results are much better than most had reason to expect even six months ago. 
 Through the end of last week, better than half of the companies that make up the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index have reported an average profit gain of more than 15 percent from the same period in 1998, according to First Call. And there is a good chance that profits will rise at a double-digit rate for all of this year, compared with a 4 percent increase in 1998.
The trouble is, many people worry that the game will soon be up. They think the market, which has been struggling with stratospheric price-to-earnings ratios, may fall sharply when S.& P. 500 earnings gains revert to historical norms, around 7 percent.
But Thomas M. McManus, equity portfolio strategist at Banc of America Securities, thinks this earnings run could last a long, long time, and he took some time last week to explain why. Here are some excerpts:
 
Q. You are of the view that this period of strong earnings growth can continue for the indefinite future. Why?
 
A. I sense a significant underlying shift in the ability of American companies to grow earnings.
For many, the roots are in consolidation, which has been important in terms of combining two attractive businesses, maintaining the same amount of revenues but with a much smaller cost base. That doesn't happen instantly, but over a couple of years.
Even without consolidation, companies have continued to restructure, coming up with a different mix of businesses that are growing faster, are less cyclical and in areas that are attractively positioned. The best example here is General Electric, which has been restructuring its businesses for 20 years.
 
Q. So what does this lead you to conclude?
 
A. That there is a higher secular growth rate for S.& P. earnings than most are willing to concede. And the cyclical rebound off of the decline in earnings last year has occurred sooner and been more robust than anyone had forecast.
 
Q. What is your current earnings forecast?
 
A. At the start of 1999 we were more optimistic than most, and thought S.& P. profits would rise by about 10 percent from 1998 levels and a further 14 percent in 2000. At the beginning of May, I revised those numbers up, to a gain of 12 percent this year and 16 percent in 2000. And I think we are going to raise estimates for this year and 2000 again.
 
Q. What do you say to those who say the S.& P. is overvalued at these levels?
 
A. I think anyone who is saying the market is overvalued this year, be it the Fed or stock market strategists, is not taking into account that the underlying business mix has improved at least as much as General Electric has improved because of a very rapid turnover of components in the index. It now has less cyclicality and greater sustainability than it did in the past and deserves to trade at a higher P/E multiple relative to any interest rate you might choose or any competing market benchmark around the world.
Also, people should be focusing on free cash flows, not earnings. Net income is only the first approximation of profitability. The real value to investors is the amount of cash a company can take out and still be left with a business that is just as good as it was before. Companies like Microsoft and Intel are like that, and that is one reason they trade at such high multiples to net income.

Q. There are plenty of folks who are worried about the effect that Year 2000 computer problems will have on the economy and earnings. Do you share those concerns?
 
A. It is my view that profits are actually being negatively impacted right now.
Last week, for example, W. W. Granger admitted their costs went up by $7 million and their revenues were cut by $10 million in the last 10 days of June because they adopted a new computer system. It is my hunch that is their Y2K compliance system.
 
Q. Which companies or groups of companies are likely to enjoy the most rapid earnings growth over the next year or so?
 
A. We could see continued improvement in a whole host of companies.
Right now, the market is looking for trends of earnings repair, or a bounce off the dip we saw last year.
Individual companies we like include Ethan Allen, the furniture manufacturer and retailer, which experienced a significant hit last year. We also like W. W. Granger, which is investing heavily in its Internet presence. We are also very attracted to the semiconductor capital equipment sector, and really like Novellus in that area. And we like technology generally.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: McManus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); 

PERSON: MCMANUS, THOMAS M

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



594 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3203 words

HEADLINE: Qwest's Game OfAggressive Phone Tag

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
ON a balmy Saturday in mid-June, 70 of Joseph P. Nacchio's closest friends and family members gathered at his northern New Jersey home for boccie ball and a late supper to celebrate his son's high school graduation. Also attending were a few colleagues, including Jack Grubman, who had worked with Mr. Nacchio at AT&T years before.
Mr. Grubman, now a top telecommunications analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, had helped advise Global Crossing on its recent mergers with U S West Inc., the smallest regional Bell company, and the Frontier Corporation, the nation's No. 5 long-distance company, based in Rochester. Global, like many young telecommunications concerns these days, hopes to use fiber optic cables to transmit data over the Internet. U S West and Frontier would give it what it needed most: revenue and customers. 
 But the rumor on Wall Street the week before the party was that one of Global's rivals, Qwest Communications International, was on the verge of making unsolicited offers for the two companies. If true, it made for an awkward situation on Mr. Nacchio's backyard deck: Mr. Nacchio is Qwest's chief executive. "There's a lot of speculation out there about when you are going to come with an offer," Mr. Grubman said at the party, a swing band playing in the background.
Mr. Nacchio said he replied with a shrug, "We may, we may not."
Mr. Nacchio was in fact about to embark on the largest double hostile takeover in American history. As he crawled into bed that evening, he was almost giddy. "I think we both had a lot of trouble sleeping that night," said his wife, Anne Esker Nacchio, "not because we were worried, but because we were excited."
The next day, Qwest made offers to buy both U S West and Frontier for a total of $55 billion in stock and cash, in effect topping Global's stock offer of $47 billion. Soon, scores of bankers, lawyers and negotiators began shuttling between Denver, where both Qwest and U S West are based, and lawyers' offices in New York as often as commuters on a subway. The result was last Sunday's compromise, for U S West to merge with Qwest and for Global Crossing to acquire Frontier -- a deal that most analysts agree gives each company the prize it needed most.
But what many participants had hoped might be worked out amicably in days, instead took weeks of almost Machiavellian maneuvering. Clandestine meetings were held in airport hangars and hotel rooms, far from prying eyes. Tempers flared as the battle at times seemed personal. And Denver's most celebrated billionaire was forced to step in and broker not one but two vital relationships. Without his effort a compromise might never have been reached.
Not everyone is savoring the victories, however, especially investors in Qwest and Global Crossing; each stock has tumbled, with Qwest closing on Friday 42 percent off its 52-week high, and Global 35 percent.
"Despite being a sensible solution, this is not a happy one for everyone involved," said one person involved in the talks. "A lot of value was lost by investors in this whole escapade."
 
'A Lot of Adrenaline Flowing'
Mr. Nacchio was a little nervous as he drove to the offices of Kekst & Company, a New York public relations firm, on Sunday, June 13, the morning after the graduation party, where he planned to announce the offers.
Qwest's bid was simple: The company was willing to pay $55 billion in stock and cash for both U S West and Frontier, about 22 percent more than Global Crossing's all-stock offer was worth based on the previous Friday's closing prices. The move was risky; not only was Qwest trying two hostile takeovers at once, but both targets had signed merger agreements with Global Crossing months before that would be tough and expensive to break.
Mr. Nacchio, who grew up in a scrappy Italian neighborhood on Staten Island, attacks competitors with a take-no-prisoners style. But even his friends say that sometimes his abrasive personality makes him an easy target for detractors. He was recently described in The Economist as having "all the swagger and verbal braggadocio of Joe Pesci's mobster in the film 'Goodfellas.' " Mr. Nacchio took offense to the stereotype, and wrote a letter to the magazine in response: "The overwhelming majority of Italian-Americans are not mobsters," he said.
The day Qwest announced its bids, Mr. Nacchio recalled, "I had a lot of adrenaline flowing." Minutes before the news release went out, he called Joseph P. Clayton, chief executive of Frontier, to tell him of the bid. Philip F. Anschutz, the secretive billionaire who owns 39 percent of Qwest and is chairman, called Solomon D. Trujillo, chief executive of U S West. Mr. Nacchio thought a call from Mr. Anschutz, whom Mr. Trujillo knew, might "take the edge off," he later recalled.
Mr. Trujillo, for his part, turned down several requests in recent weeks to be interviewed for this article.
The news of Qwest's offer, though unwelcome, came as no surprise to executives at Global Crossing. They had worried that Qwest and a partner might enter the bidding war. Global's top management conferred immediately with its advisers at Salomon, but there was little to do except wait and see how investors reacted. Robert Annunziata, the chief executive, was barred from commenting publicly about Frontier and U S West until Global filed documents with regulators. And, anyway, Global had a provision in its merger contracts that allowed it to review any competing bid.
Meanwhile, Qwest investors revolted. On Monday, the day after the announcement, the shares collapsed 24 percent, to $34.125, in record trading volume. That was troubling for Qwest, because the company was offering its own stock as currency. When the stock price dropped, so did the value of its dual offer, making it almost comparable to Global Crossing's. Mr. Nacchio and his advisers had clearly miscalculated the market response.
As one investment banker not involved in the deals said at the time, "This will be a Harvard Business School case study someday on how not to launch a hostile takeover."
Qwest's attempt to promote the deal during that week's roadshow was equally disastrous. Investors bought Qwest with the promise of owning a supercharged growth company. But if Mr. Nacchio bought U S West, Qwest's growth rate would be halved. "I think the whole strategy is absurd," said Robert Gensler of T. Rowe Price, the mutual fund company in Baltimore, one of many analysts to balk at the move.
By the time Mr. Nacchio got back to his Denver office on Thursday, June 17, he had 600 E-mail messages waiting. No one, Mr. Nacchio said, seemed to understand Qwest's rationale, least of all the news media. "Business Week has a story coming out, and you are not going to like it," Mr. Nacchio recalled a board member telling him that Thursday. Mr. Nacchio had been interviewed, he said, but instead of a news article, the magazine published an editorial criticizing his bids, calling him "a telecom bureaucrat dressed up in Internet clothes."
Mr. Nacchio did not mask his anger. In a conference call with advisers later that afternoon, he lashed out. "What is going on here?" he barked, according to one person on the call. "Why can't we get any good press?" Mr. Nacchio later told aides to try to set up meetings with top editors at major news outlets so he could explain his plan.
 Mr. Nacchio said he thinks some news accounts were planted by Global to try to undermine his offers. "It demonstrated they hadn't done their homework on me, and I wasn't going to back down," he said. He called the stories "hurtful." (Mr. Annunziata of Global Crossing said neither he nor any of his executives planted negative reports.)
But Mr. Nacchio's public relations campaign did little to sway the audience he needed most. On June 17, Frontier reaffirmed its merger with Global Crossing, which is based in Bermuda; four days later, U S West did the same.
Their message was clear: Sweeten the offers or go away.
 
'A Ton of Bricks on Your Heads'
On June 22, nine days after Qwest made its offers, Mr. Nacchio was awakened by a telephone call from Mr. Anschutz, Qwest's largest shareholder, wishing him a happy 50th birthday. "How do you feel?" Mr. Nacchio said Mr. Anschutz asked him. "Tired," Mr. Nacchio replied, "but I'm not sure if it's age or if it is this deal."
Mr. Nacchio and his negotiating team, which included Craig Slater, who is one of Mr. Anschutz's trusted advisers, had begun a "Dear Sol" letter-writing campaign to pressure Mr. Trujillo of U S West to accept Qwest's offer. Instead, advisers say they annoyed him, and Mr. Trujillo demanded that they stop. Qwest was also planning to make revised offers that were more palatable, but exactly how was up in the air. Among other things, U S West wanted protection in case Qwest's volatile stock plummeted further.
Mr. Nacchio and Mr. Anschutz discussed several different options -- more stock or a guarantee of cash, perhaps -- and decided to keep Qwest's board members on standby in case a quick vote was needed on a revised bid. By day's end, it was: Frontier shareholders would be offered a guaranteed $48 in stock and $20 in cash, and U S West shareholders $69 in stock, for each share.
The total value of the offers -- about $50 billion -- was not as rich as the first, but seemed better than Global Crossing's. And both companies' stockholders would be protected from volatile price swings as well, something Qwest hadn't offered originally. Qwest planned to make its revised offer the next morning.
Mr. Nacchio, who had been working at home in his library, took a few hours off that night for a quiet barbecue with his wife and two sons. (Their birthday gifts to him that day included the "Godfather" trilogy on video and a promise to wash and wax his Porsche.) And he called Mr. Grubman of Salomon, in part to send a message to Global to back off.
Mr. Nacchio was still fuming about the Business Week editorial, and he said he told Mr. Grubman that "it was a bad tactic for Global to go after me personally." He also told Mr. Grubman that another bid was coming, saying, as Mr. Grubman recalled it and Mr. Nacchio confirmed, "I'm going to drop a ton of bricks on your heads."
The new bids posed a problem for Global Crossing. Its founder, Gary Winnick -- a financier and a former colleague of Michael R. Milken -- had turned a $15 million investment in an undersea cable into more than $5 billion of Global stock. For Global to succeed, it needed the cash and customers Frontier and U S West could provide. Mr. Winnick's biggest fear was losing Frontier, because he coveted its long-distance network.
He knew it would be inappropriate to approach Qwest directly about a compromise, so on the afternoon of June 26, according to people close to the talks, he stopped by the Malibu home of a trusted friend, Ken Moelis, a Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette executive in Los Angeles. The two walked on the beach, and Mr. Winnick asked Mr. Moelis: Could he help with Mr. Anschutz?
Mr. Moelis, who was not advising Qwest, called Lou Friedman, another Donaldson banker who was, and told him about the visit. Maybe a deal could work, Mr. Moelis thought. Qwest, the nation's fourth-largest long-distance company, was interested in U S West mainly for its local customers. And Frontier, while important, was less vital to its strategy.
It took executives and bankers two days to negotiate a meeting of about eight Qwest and Global executives and advisers at the O'Hare Hilton in Chicago on June 30. "Everyone was terrified," one person close to the talks said. "No one trusted each other. They didn't want leaks. The implication was it would show weakness."
When the two camps convened at 10 A.M. in room 3002, a Salomon banker laid out Global's concerns first: Mr. Winnick was prepared to give U S West permission to negotiate with Qwest as long as Qwest was willing to drop its bid for Frontier that day. No way, said Mr. Slater, Mr. Anschutz's adviser. "This isn't going to be unilateral disarmament," he said, according to people who were there. "It's trust, but we'll keep our nuclear weapons pointed at you." Mr. Slater said Qwest would drop its bid for Frontier only when a deal with U S West was struck.
For two hours, the two teams bickered. "Part of the negotiation with Global Crossing was helping Qwest get in to U S West to talk," said one person close to the talks. "U S West could have hidden behind legal issues if it wanted to." By noon, Mr. Slater and his team were so frustrated that they threatened to walk out of the negotiations and called their pilot to fetch them. But after three more exhausting hours, they were no closer to a compromise.
A flurry of calls were made over the next 24 hours to both Mr. Winnick and Mr. Anschutz. Those led to an informal understanding on July 1 that allowed U S West to negotiate with Qwest as long as Qwest agreed to drop its bid for Frontier when a deal with U S West was signed. Also, Global would receive half its original $850 million breakup fee. That afternoon, Mr. Winnick and Mr. Anschutz confirmed the informal understanding by telephone. Later that day, U S West said it would begin talks with Qwest. Frontier also said it would hold talks with Qwest.
 
Maneuvers, and a Deal
An agreement between Qwest and U S West might never have been reached without the stealthy maneuverings of Mr. Anschutz, the press-shy Denver billionaire who made his fortune in oil and railroad investments. Most recently, he sold the Southern Pacific Railroad in 1996 for $5.4 billion, tripling his $1.8 billion investment.
Like Mr. Winnick, he is guarded and private, driven to finding opportunities where none are clear. But in this case, his motivation was self-evident: to further protect his 39 percent investment in Qwest, which since June 13 had lost one-quarter of its value. As the largest shareholder, he had the most to gain in welcoming Mr. Trujillo into the Qwest fold. "Guys like Anschutz and Winnick, they want to make money," said one person involved in the talks. "They don't want to be known as the guys who remade the telecommunications industry."
Because U S West had originally approached Global about a merger of equals, it was not technically for sale. So Mr. Trujillo and his board were demanding a merger with equal power. One concern was that Qwest had no experience running a local telephone business. And Mr. Trujillo wanted to make sure that his ideas and those of his management team would get an equal airing once the companies were combined. "U S West was concerned about Qwest slashing and burning its management team," a person close to the talks said.
In fact, mutual suspicion pervaded every aspect of the negotiations, to the point that seemingly trivial details like a demand by Mr. Trujillo to drop a sentence and move a paragraph in the news release would snag the deal's signing for hours. (He prevailed on the sentence, which said he would report to Mr. Nacchio; the paragraph, explaining each of the top executives' titles, ultimately stayed put.)
Mr. Anschutz began talking about management issues with Mr. Trujillo on Thursday, July 8. One solution discussed was to name Mr. Trujillo president of the local and wireless business and a vice chairman of the combined company. But that was a nonstarter; U S West feared that a vice chairmanship would be perceived as one step away from early retirement.
Talks between executives in New York stalled over the weekend, too. Mr. Slater was running in Central Park on Saturday when he received a call on his cell phone from Allan R. Spies, U S West's chief financial officer, informing him that the day's planned negotiations might be postponed, said a person close to the talks. Mr. Slater and his team went to the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, the lawyers advising Qwest, to await Mr. Spies's call. The meeting never happened, and Qwest's advisers ended up watching the Women's World Cup soccer finals on a television in the law office library.
Four days after discussions began in earnest, negotiators struck paydirt. Mr. Slater and Mr. Spies, along with two other executives from Qwest and U S West, met at U S West's hangar at a small airport outside Denver on July 12. The four men mulled over a compromise that had surfaced earlier: naming Mr. Anschutz, Mr. Nacchio and Mr. Trujillo co-chairmen.
Mr. Nacchio would still be chief executive. But to make that palatable, Mr. Trujillo would have the authority to present his own ideas to the board, even if Mr. Nacchio disagreed. Mr. Trujillo would be named president of the local and wireless business. And top jobs at the combined entity would be divided equally between executives from the two companies.
Mr. Anschutz didn't love the concept at first. "Phil thought the market would perceive him as an arbitrator," said one person close to the talks. "He was the referee, and he didn't want to be." But he soon warmed to the idea, as did Mr. Nacchio, who was traveling that day. Later that afternoon, Mr. Anschutz went to Mr. Trujillo's office, and the two men agreed that it was an arrangement they all could live with.
With management issues all but behind them, negotiators spent several long days and late nights -- until the boards' meetings on Friday night -- working out the details.
The drama of Qwest's battle for U S West overshadowed the story of Frontier. After preliminary discussions stalled, Rolla P. Huff, president and chief operating officer, said he called Mr. Nacchio on July 13 -- the same day Mr. Nacchio and Mr. Trujillo had dinner at the Brown Palace Hotel in downtown Denver to discuss their future -- to gauge whether he was serious about buying Frontier. Mr. Nacchio said he was, but Mr. Huff said he suspected then, as he does now, that Mr. Nacchio was not as interested in Frontier as he was in U S West.
 
But Will It Work?
Last week, the Qwest and Global Crossing compromise was greeted with little fanfare on Wall Street. Analysts called it the logical outcome, as did the principals.
"At the end of the day, we thought U S West was good, but we had our limits on what it was worth," said Mr. Annunziata of Global Crossing.
Mr. Nacchio said, "It was O.K. to let Frontier go."
Communications companies, like Qwest and Global, are aware that if they do not transform themselves -- placing one foot in the new digital universe of the Internet and the other in the traditional world of cable or copper wires -- they risk likely death. In essence, that is at the core of the brawl for Frontier and U S West.
But betting on an unpredictable future takes its toll. "I'm just physically tired," Mr. Nacchio said, sounding weary on a telephone call on Thursday from Boston, one of several cities he visited on a whirlwind roadshow to discuss the merger. "I've only seen my wife three times in the past three weeks."
Mr. Nacchio says he is confident that Qwest's merger with U S West will succeed. But it will be several years before he, or Qwest investors, know for sure. Still, "Qwest can never be the same," Mr. Nacchio said. "Once we started, we knew we could never go back to what we were before."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: THAT WAS THEN -- Last May, Robert Annunziata, left, chief executive of Global Crossing, and Solomon D. Trujillo, president and chief executive of U S West, announced their intent to merge the two companies. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); THIS IS NOW -- On June 13, Qwest made a hostile bid for U S West. Last week, Mr. Trujillo, left, and Joseph Nacchio, chief executive of Qwest, announced that their companies would merge instead. (Associated Press); Gary Winnick, the founder of Global Crossing, turned a $15 million investment into more than $5 billion in Global stock. (Associated Press); Philip Anschutz, a very private billionaire, is a major shareholder of Qwest and made his fortune in the oil and railroad industries. (Associated Press)(pg. 11)
 
Chart/Photos: "Switching Partners"
Young telecommunications companies, like Qwest Communications International and Global Crossing, must transform themselves -- with one foot in the digital universe of the Internet and the other in traditional cable or copper wires -- or risk a likely death. Here is how a four-way fight turned into two deals.
 
CHAIN OF EVENTS
MARCH 17 -- Global Crossing, founded by Gary Winnick, announces that it will buy the Frontier Corporation for $11 billion, or $63 a share.
MAY 17 -- Global Crossing and U S West announce that they will merge in a deal valued at $37 billion, or $60 for each U S West share.
JUNE 13 -- Qwest makes a hostile offer of $55 billion in stock and cash to acquire both U S West and Frontier, in an effort to pry them away from Global Crossing.
JUNE 17 -- Frontier says it is still in a deal with Global Crossing.
JUNE 21 -- U S West announces that it, too, will stick to its deal with Global Crossing.
JUNE 23 -- Qwest revises its offer to $69 a share in stock for U S West and $68 in cash and stock for Frontier, or $50 billion in all, with the cash component to increase if its stock price drops too far.
JUNE 30 -- Representatives of Qwest and Global Crossing meet to consider a truce. Items discussed: Allowing U S West to negotiate with Qwest if Qwest drops its bid for Frontier; a breakup fee to be paid to Global Crossing.
JUNE 30 -- Frontier's board agrees to let management talk to Qwest about its offer, but reaffirms its merger agreement with Global Crossing.
JULY 1 -- Qwest and Global Crossing reach an understanding. U S West's management is allowed to begin talks with Qwest about its offer.
JULY 3 -- Representatives of Qwest and U S West begin meetings to discuss regulatory issues and the role of U S West's management in a merged company.
JULY 12 -- An agreement is struck to make Mr. Trujillo of U S West a co-chairman in a merged company and give him authority to go to the board with ideas. Mr. Nacchio will head the combined company.
JULY 16 -- Qwest's and U S West's boards approve a merger of the two companies.
JULY 18 -- Qwest says that U S West has agreed to a $36.5 billion merger, expected to close in about a year. Global Crossing says, in turn, that it will continue with its $11 billion acquisition of Frontier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (92%); ALESK (PAR) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: QWEST COMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL INC (QWST); FRONTIER CORP (FRO); GLOBAL CROSSING LTD (GBLX); U S WEST INC (USW) CENTURYLINK INC (92%); U S WEST INC (84%); FRONTIER CORP (71%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); ESKER SA (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: QWEST COMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL INC (QWST); FRONTIER CORP (FRO); GLOBAL CROSSING LTD (GBLX); U S WEST INC (USW)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); MERGERS (75%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); FIBER OPTICS (71%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); EXECUTIVES (51%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



595 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: You Could Look It Up;
What He Promised. And What He Did.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHY, a reporter asked President Clinton at his news conference on Wednesday, did he ridicule George W. Bush's slogan of "compassionate conservatism"? Another reporter wanted to know what the President found objectionable about the Texas Governor's "trying to present a new moderate face for his party, just like you did for the Democrats."
Mr. Clinton responded that Governor Bush had not met the responsibility of Presidential candidates to "make their positions clear on the great debates going on now and make their positions clear on what they would do if they got the job." 
 Then, Mr. Clinton offered this version of his own race for President in 1992: "The first thing I did was tell the American people what I thought was going on in our country and what I would do. And if you remember, the late Senator Paul Tsongas and I were actually almost ridiculed at the time because we both put out these very detailed plans of what we would do. If you go back and get one of those plans now, you'll see that virtually everything we said we'd do we did do, except for the things we tried to do and were defeated on."
Is that right or not?
No one can challenge Mr. Clinton's point that he offered a detailed agenda, which he refined over the months. By the fall, he and Al Gore had published a 240-page book called "Putting People First" that offered explicit proposals on issues running the alphabetical gamut from agriculture to women.
Some of the promises were grand, like cutting the budget deficit in half, guaranteeing Americans affordable medical insurance, "ending welfare as we know it" and providing equal economic opportunity for all. Other promises were microscopic in their detail, like saving $2 million in 1993 by adjusting nuclear waste disposal fees for inflation. And some were simply unmeasurable, like the pledge to give America "the best-educated, best-trained workforce in the world, linked together by transportation and communication networks second to none."
But if the quantity, breadth and specificity of Clinton promises cannot be contested, one can quibble with his view that he accomplished, or at least tried to accomplish, "virtually everything" he promised to do.
The fact is, Mr. Clinton did reach many of the goals he set in 1992, was thwarted by political opponents on some and never even tried to achieve others. On the central issue of the 1992 campaign, the economy, his goal of halving the deficit was left in the dust. The budget was balanced, and Mr. Clinton is now able to foresee enormous surpluses in Government accounts. The unemployment rate fell to the lowest level in decades and millions of new jobs were created. Inflation was tamed. The American economy became, as Mr. Clinton pledged it would, second to none.
In addition, over the opposition of Republicans in Congress, President Clinton fulfilled promises to enact a tough gun-control law, finance 100,000 new community police officers, increase the minimum wage, start a national service program, give workers time off to deal with family emergencies and block efforts to restrict abortions.
Working with and in many cases following the Republicans' lead, he expanded international trade, ended the 60-year-old national welfare system, reduced the size of the Government work force, gave tax breaks to cities for special empowerment zones and won authority for a line-item veto, which was ultimately found unconstitutional by the Supreme Court.
On some other goals established in 1992, Mr. Clinton made an effort but was stopped by Congress. His most spectacular failure, of course, was his proposal to provide affordable health insurance coverage for all Americans through local networks of insurers, hospitals and doctors. As a campaign theme, it sounded workable. When Mr. Clinton submitted a plan along those lines after he became President, it proved to be unwieldy and unpopular and died while Democrats still controlled Congress.
Opponents forced the President to withdraw his promise to let homosexuals serve in the military. He instituted instead the compromise policy of don't-ask, don't-tell, which satisfies no one.
CONGRESS also stopped the President from keeping his promises to "rebuild America" by spending billions on a jobs and public works program. And it rejected his proposal that companies with striking workers be prohibited from hiring replacements.
Mr. Clinton simply broke other promises. Here are some of the ones he reneged on:
Even before he took office, he dropped his proposal for a middle-income tax cut.
He never tried to repeal the limit on how much money people over 65 can earn before their Social Security benefits are reduced.
He gave lip service to campaign finance reform but exerted no effort to attain it.
He quickly forgot a plan to require businesses to spend 1.5 percent of their payroll on continued education and training of workers.
He never ended tax breaks for companies that shut down American plants and ship jobs overseas.
He never made improvement in China's human rights record a condition for favorable trade status.
Instead of fighting an increase in the gasoline tax, he sponsored legislation that raised it by 4.3 cents a gallon.
Paradoxically, the fewer promises from 1992 Mr. Clinton kept, the more popular he became. His grandest achievements were in his first year in office, and the public did not seem particularly grateful. By the end of his second year, his Presidency was in shambles, and Republicans won control of both houses of Congress.
Then Mr. Clinton began thinking small bore. He won re-election in 1996 without big promises and has concentrated since then on blocking Republican ambitions. "There was a misreading of how much change people wanted," explained Mr. Clinton's former adviser, Harold M. Ickes.
Perhaps that is why George W. Bush is promising so little. And maybe, just maybe, it's why President Clinton is egging him on.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1992, Bill Clinton the candidate worked an airport crowd in Cleveland. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PUTTING PEOPLE FIRST (54%); PUTTING PEOPLE FIRST (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUTTING PEOPLE FIRST (54%); PUTTING PEOPLE FIRST (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); LABOR FORCE (67%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (62%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



596 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: The World: Ominous Signals in Iran;
In Islamic Mideast, Scant Place for Jews

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

 BODY:
TO those who monitor events in Iran, the arrest of 13 Iranian Jews on spying charges this year is a menacing sign that bigger trouble may lie ahead -- trouble that, unchecked, could cause one of the last two Jewish communities of any size in the Islamic Middle East to follow most of the others into virtual oblivion.
Until the arrests, Jews in Iran had survived the 20-year dominion of Iran's ruling ayatollahs better than many feared in 1979, when the Islamic republic was declared. In fact, the 30,000 Jews in Iran, while down from the 80,000 who lived there before the revolution, constitute the largest Jewish community to have survived in the Muslim Middle East and North Africa. The only other one of similar size is in Turkey, another non-Arab country, where about 20,000 Jews remain. 
 The Iranian Jews' significance becomes clearer when their endurance is measured against what happened elsewhere after the birth of Israel. From Morocco through Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Yemen, Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Turkey, Jewish communities that totalled perhaps a million people in 1948 dwindled between the 1950's and 80's to the point that barely 60,000 -- including the 50,000 in Iran and Turkey -- remain.
But now, Iran's Jews must worry that tactics used against Jewish minorities elsewhere could erode their security, making migration more attractive. For the time being, the American and European diplomats who have been leading a discreet campaign to persuade Iran to drop the spying charges remain hopeful. They point to the opprobrium that would be sure to fall on Iran if the cases come to trial, or -- improbable, but still possible, in the view of experts on Iran -- if the Jews were convicted and sentenced to long prison terms or death.
The case has unfolded slowly. When the first of the 13 was arrested in January, the State Department kept the matter quiet, hoping diplomacy could resolve the issue. But that had not happened by early June, when Iran announced the arrests over the state radio.
The spying charges bear every earmark of a trumped-up case. Those arrested -- including a rabbi, three Hebrew teachers, a kosher butcher and even, by some reports, a 16-year-old boy -- were originally picked up for alleged infringements of Iranian laws that conflict with Jewish practices. The rabbi was charged with teaching Hebrew, the language of Jewish prayer; others were accused of closing their shops on Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath.
Their actions were condemned as evidence of disloyalty to Iran, and thus as proof that those arrested were in the service of "world arrogance" and "the Zionist entity," meaning the United States and Israel. By escalating infractions of religious laws into treason, the conservatives who control Iran's police and courts evidently hoped to stir antagonism toward the West and place fresh obstacles before Iran's reformist President, Mohammed Khatami.
BY no coincidence, the charges originated in the southern city of Fars, a stronghold of Islamic conservatives loyal to Ayatollah Ali Khamanei, Iran's supreme leader. Although the violent clashes earlier this month between students supporting President Khatami and security forces loyal to the Muslim clerics have now abated, the underlying dispute between those favoring a broadening of freedoms and the clerics' insistence on tight control remains. With it, at least theoretically, remains the risk that other Jews might become political pawns.
It is a situation redolent of the hazards Jews have faced throughout history, made more poignant in Iran by the fact that Jews there seemed, until the spying case, to have a more secure place than elsewhere in the Muslim Middle East. The Islamic constitution recognizes Jews as a religious minority, allows them a representative in Parliament and accepts Jewish laws on burial and divorce. In Teheran, 27 synagogues function, Jewish schools flourish and the Jewish hospital is among the city's most respected.
Now all this could be at risk, and with it a crucial vestige of the Jewish settlement that has left a deep imprint on virtually every country in the Middle East. According to estimates in the "Atlas of the Jewish World," a survey by Dr. Nicholas de Lange of Cambridge University, as many as four million Jews lived in parts of the Roman Empire beyond Judea, the Jewish homeland, at the dawn of the first millennium; most of these lived in the Arab lands that now surround Israel. On the eve of the third millennium, these countries together could not muster a Jewish population as numerous as those that were once to be found in many of the major cities of the region.
Iraq, where there were about 150,000 Jews in 1948, has about 70 now. In Syria, there are about 300, in Lebanon about 80, in Jordan, Egypt and Yemen fewer still. In Saudi Arabia there are no Jews, at least by official count. In Morocco, which had about 300,000 Jews in 1948, about 6,000 remain. In Algeria, which saw 115,000 Jews emigrate hastily to France at independence in 1962, the count is down to a few hundred. In Tunisia, which counted 105,000 Jews in 1950, there are no more than 2,500. In Libya, where a 1931 census counted 24,500 Jews, one recent count put the number of Jews remaining at 5. In Turkey, a community of 90,000 in 1948 has shrunk to less than a quarter of that now.
While flight from the Muslim lands has been precipitous in the last 50 years, a slower decline dates from the Middle Ages, when the rise of Christian Europe attracted large westward migrations among Jewish populations in the Middle East. Other factors, including local pogroms, prompted Jews to leave over the centuries. But in the modern era, the watershed was the creation of Israel. Living in a Jewish state was an attraction in itself; a surge of hostility among Arabs toward Jews, or at least toward Zionism, was another factor.
Still, many of those who left did so reluctantly, and many chose not to leave until much later. This attests to something widely accepted among Jews who have lived as minorities in Muslim nations -- that the Islamic world has been less fertile ground for anti-Semitism than the Christian lands of Europe. Why this has been so has been endlessly debated, but Islamic scholars cite stories from the life of the Muslim prophet, Mohammed, to show that respect for Jews was close to his heart.
Nothing in Jewish experience in the Middle East came remotely close to the Holocaust. But even long before Hitler's killing machine, Jews in Muslim countries were comparing their experiences favorably with those of Jews in Europe. In his survey, Dr. de Lange quotes a Jew writing from Constantinople to Jews in the Rhineland in 1454. "Is it not better for you to live under Muslims than under Christians?" he wrote. "Here, every man may live at peace under his own vine and fig tree."
SINCE 1948, of course, there has been no lack of discrimination toward Jews in Arab countries. Eighteen months after the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, Iraq convicted 14 people, nine of them Jews, on dubious spying charges and hanged them from lampposts in a Baghdad square. In many Arab countries, Jews could not emigrate, or could only on forfeit of all they owned. Jewish religious practices were restricted. In many countries, Jews were excluded from government employment, at least at the top.
Some Jewish historians have argued that Israel, or at least Zionists, must accept a share of the blame. These scholars cite the Zionists' plan to encourage Jews everywhere to migrate to Israel, and link that plan to covert Israeli intelligence operations in the years after 1948. One often-cited case involves a bungled Israeli intelligence schemet in 1954 in which bombs were placed at key centers in Cairo, including the American library, with a view to disrupting relations between Western countries and President Gamal Abdel Nasser. These historians say another aim -- and certainly one effect -- was to encourage Egypt's 50,000 Jews to flee to Israel.
Avi Shlaim, a professor of international relations at Oxford University who has written on relations between Israel and the Arab states, says that actions like these accelerated the flight of Jews from communities where many might otherwise have remained. But Dr. Shlaim, whose own family left Iraq for Israel in 1950, believes that now that the Jewish communities in the region have all but vanished, not even a lasting peace between Israel and the Arab states will lead to their regeneration.
The reason, he says, is not that the Arab states or Iran are innately anti-Semitic, but that they lack democratic institutions and economic opportunities. "I can't imagine anyone in their right mind going back to Iraq, or Syria, for that matter," he says. King Hassan of Morocco, who died last week, "held out this opportunity to Moroccan Jews all along, and even they haven't exercised it," Dr. Shalim added. "The most I can imagine now is that Jews born in these countries may eventually want to return as tourists, but nothing more."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Yemen, one of the few remaining Jews sits in his house, which his family shares with a Muslim family. (Jacques Langevin/Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); TURKEY (93%); YEMEN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); MOROCCO (76%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); TURKEY (93%); YEMEN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); MOROCCO (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARRESTS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); TREASON (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); PRISONS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); SENTENCING (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



597 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: The Oracle of the Fed

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, who has been chairman of the Federal Reserve Board for a dozen years, is a past master of the art of Delphic Congressional testimony. So perhaps it is understandable that many Congressmen take for granted that he is always that way, and seem to have trouble understanding him when he decides to make himself perfectly clear.
That is what happened last week, when Mr. Greenspan testified before a House committee on the very day the House was voting for a massive tax cut. It was, he said, not a good idea. He got to say it over and over again because Republicans kept seeking Greenspanian ambiguity where it did not exist. 
 Mr. Greenspan is not a fan of big government, but he is an economist concerned about a sizzling economy that could rekindle inflation and that may -- he concedes he is not at all sure -- have produced a stock-market bubble. Last month the Federal Reserve pushed up interest rates a bit, and, in one of the more oracular parts of his testimony, Mr. Greenspan seemed to hint that more tightening was likely. In that atmosphere, the last thing he needs is a tax cut that would provide more economic stimulus. "I'm saying, hold off for a while," he testified.
But while there is no economic need for a tax cut now, there might be one in a few years. As Mr. Greenspan noted, the business cycle should not be presumed dead just because we are in the midst of the longest peacetime expansion in American history. "At some point," he warned, "this economy is going to slow down and perhaps slow down quite significantly."
That is when a tax cut would be needed. Unfortunately, the bill passed by the House could provide just the opposite. It calls for a series of cuts in individual income tax rates, but would delay the cuts if the interest expense on the Federal debt rose. But that is just what happens as a result of recessions, which cause tax receipts to fall and welfare costs to rise. The bill would cut taxes, in other words, unless a tax cut was actually a good idea.
That provision to delay the cuts was put in to pacify Republican moderates worried about deficits. They bought it, not worrying about the perverse economic effects or about the fact that it would delay only the reductions in individual income tax rates, which happen to be the only parts of the bill that benefit lower- and middle-income taxpayers. The other parts of the tax bill, including a reduction in capital-gains tax rates, a phase-out of the estate tax and a variety of special-interest breaks for corporations, would not be affected. The campaign contributors seeking those breaks will be pleased.
Mr. Greenspan is treated reverently on Capitol Hill, but it appears that the Republicans do not want to heed his advice to run a surplus and pay down the national debt, while saving a tax cut for when it is needed. It may be up to President Clinton to use his veto pen to prevent this folly from becoming law. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ESTATE TAX (76%); RECESSION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); HISTORY (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



598 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Idealism at Home

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Joining Peace Corps Inc." (Preludes, July 18), discussed how Peace Corps volunteers hone business skills while expressing idealism. But what about two other national service programs, Vista and Americorps? 
 I am a former Vista volunteer and now a manager and recruiter for these programs. I find that the applicants have similar idealistic intentions -- and the desire to help themselves and their careers. Unfortunately, these volunteers receive little notice, yet they initiate grand change in struggling areas nationwide.
I brought my compassion, business skills and experience to my Vista work in Paterson, N.J. Through entrepreneurship training and small-business development, I continue to help inner-city teen-agers realize the power of self-employment and self-confidence. Vista continues to bring positive change to the community, and I have found a welcoming place there for my career to prosper.
 
NICOLE MANDARANO
Oakland, N.J., July 19 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (53%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PEACE CORPS; VOLUNTEERS IN SERVICE TO AMERICA; AMERICORPS JOINING PEACE CORPS INC (92%); PEACE CORPS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS; VOLUNTEERS IN SERVICE TO AMERICA; AMERICORPS PEACE CORPS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (53%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PEACE CORPS; VISTA; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT VOLUNTEERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); 

PERSON: MANDARANO, NICOLE

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



599 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: JULY 18-July 23;
If It Weren't for Those Darn Profits...

BYLINE: By PATRICK J. LYONS

 BODY:
Last week's action in American equities put the lie to the often-heard complaint that investors, swept up as they are in the Internet gold rush, had stopped caring about company profits. Now, in the thick of the season for second-quarter earnings reports, it's clear that investors do care about profits: They hate them.
 Well, maybe that's a bit flippant. But in a week when company after company and sector after sector weighed in with robust profit reports, all the major stock market indexes sagged. 
 Two explanations came to the fore. Analysts suggested that many investors saw the earnings reports as a cue to take profits, following the "sell on the news" half of the old saw about market timing. And testimony on Capitol Hill by Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, about the likelihood of a hair-trigger tightening of monetary policy at the first sign of inflation left many market watchers feeling that an interest rate increase might be imminent.
 That feeling produced a corresponding downdraft in the bond market, with the long bond yield rising above 6 percent. Perhaps counterintuitively, though, the dollar lost ground for the week against both the euro and the Japanese yen. PATRICK J. LYONS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
HEWLETT-PACKARD
NYSE: HWP
Investors cheered the announcement that the company's new president and chief executive would be Carleton S. Fiorina, a highly regarded executive at Lucent Technologies.
Friday's Close -- $107.75
Week's Change -- -5.48%
EST. '99 P/E -- 30.14
 
COMPAQ COMPUTER
NYSE: CPQ
The chairman, Benjamin M. Rosen, announced a surprising choice for the company's new chief executive: Michael D. Capellas, a little-known insider. Most analysts had expected an outsider to get the post.
Friday's Close -- $24.50
Week's Change -- -10.30%
EST. '99 P/E -- 76.80
 
COMPUWARE
NNM: CPWR
Net income for the second quarter beat expectations but revenue fell short, mainly because of slow sales growth in Europe. Several prominent analysts downgraded their ratings of the stock after the announcement.
Friday's Close -- $26.9375
Week's Change -- -25.17%
EST. '99 P/E -- 22.73
 
AMAZON.COM
NNM: AMZN
Wall Street began to run out of patience with the continuing red ink at the rapidly growing Internet retailer. The company said the losses were likely to widen, not narrow, this year and next.
Friday's Close -- $114.5625
Week's Change -- -16.76%
EST. '99 P/E -- N.A.
 
WHITE CAP INDUSTRIES
NNM: WHCP
The Costa Mesa, Calif.- based specialty tool maker said it would be acquired by a private investment group including several of its senior managers, for $240 million, or $16.50 a share, in cash.
Friday's Close -- $15.25
Week's Change -- +34.07%
EST. '99 P/E -- 13.15
 
ELF AQUITAINE
NYSE: ELF (A.D.R.'s)
Elf's plan to acquire the other big French oil company, Total Fina, seemed likely to bog down in a lengthy and expensive battle when Total Fina responded with its own bid to acquire Elf on Monday.
Friday's Close -- $86.25
Week's Change -- -4.83%
EST. '99 P/E -- 33.55
 
CITIGROUP
NYSE: C
Like many big banks reporting earnings last week, Citigroup posted a surprisingly strong surge for the second quarter, propelled by robust growth in its credit card and consumer banking businesses.
Friday's Close -- $47.375
Week's Change -- -3.32%
EST. '99 P/E -- 17.49
 
L.M. ERICSSON
NNM: ERICY (A.D.R.'s)
The company's controller said Ericsson, the world's No. 3 cellular phone maker, would break even in its fixed-line business and have positive cash flow in the second half of 1999.
Friday's Close -- $31.6875
Week's Change -- +9.50%
EST. '99 P/E -- 42.76
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (64%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (64%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); MICHAEL CAPELLAS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



600 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Study Contradicts Foes of Estate Tax

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Congressional opponents of the estate tax say it discourages savings, costs the economy more than it raises for the Government and makes it very difficult for a family-owned farm or business to be passed to the next generation.
But all of those arguments are contradicted by Government tax and economic data, according to a book-length study that will be published tomorrow in the policy magazine Tax Notes. 
 The article comes after the House passed on Thursday night the Republicans' bill to cut taxes by $792 billion, including the repeal of the estate tax. Similar legislation was being considered in the Senate but the outcome of the repeal is in doubt because President Clinton has promised to veto it.
Yet the article in Tax Notes seems likely to have a profound effect on the debate over estate taxes, experts say. Data from estate tax returns and other records do not support the claims of estate tax opponents, according to the article, by Charles Davenport and Jay A. Soled, professors at Rutgers University who teach estate tax law and business management.
The estate tax is projected in the Federal budget to raise about $28 billion this year. That is less than one-third of 1 percent of the gross domestic product, which is too slight to retard economic growth, the authors say.
While the tax rate on the largest estates can be 55 percent, Internal Revenue Service data cited in the study show that in 1996 the average tax on estates of $600,000 to $1 million was 6 percent.
It costs the I.R.S. 2 cents on the dollar to administer the tax, the authors calculate. They say the combined private and Governmentcosts total about 7 cents on the estate tax dollar.
Professors Davenport and Soled said Congressional testimony by critics of the estate tax contending that the tax costs more than it raises was based on flawed data, including a study that estimated that every dollar raised in Federal income taxes cost the economy 65 cents more. That figure was dismissed as absurd by the authors.
They also disputed another contention of the critics, that rich people spend heavily in their later years in order to reduce estate taxes. Instead, the authors say, many rich people save more money to offset the tax.
They say that the reasons family businesses are not passed to the next generation have little to do with estate taxes. A primary reason, the authors say, is the burden on heirs who want to keep the business and must raise cash to pay off those heirs who do not.
While the estate tax nominally begins when net worth at death exceeds $650,000 ($1.3 million for a married couple), Congress lets a couple pass on $4.5 million untaxed if they own a business and $7.4 million if they own a farm. Only about 1 in 1,000 American families is worth $7.4 million.
The estate tax will be paid this year by the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans who die.
The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimated last week that repeal of the estate tax would reduce Federal revenues by $75 billion over the next 10 years, even though the Federal budget projects the estate tax will raise more than that amount in the next three years alone.
The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Bill Archer of Texas, who had not seen the article, said that he was skeptical of its claims and any data drawn from I.R.S. records.
"Every dollar taken by the death tax is a dollar taken out of savings when what this country needs is more private savings," said Mr. Archer, the author of the House Republicans' tax bill. He said the costs of the estate tax included discouraging wealthy foreigners from moving to the United States with their capital and skills.
As to whether existing exemptions are enough for farms to stay in families, he said, "The input from the Ag Belt is totally contrary to that."
The authors say that among the virtues they see in the estate tax are that it taxes some money that has slipped past the income tax system, it is paid only by those most able to pay, it encourages financial planning and charitable giving and it tends to ease the trend toward concentration of wealth. The richest 1 percent of Americans now own half of all stocks, bonds and other assets, a record level, according to Professor Edward N. Wolff of New York University.
Experts say the Tax Notes article may be as influential as the 1994 Yale Law Review article by Edward J. McCaffery of the University of Southern California Law School, who exhorted liberals to join conservatives in opposing the estate tax as inefficient and unfair. Since then, the Tax Notes article says, "talk about the death-tax has been a monologue by the tax's opponents." The article is available at www.tax.org on the Internet. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TAX NOTES (MAGAZINE) RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAX NOTES (MAGAZINE) RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; WILLS AND ESTATES; SMALL BUSINESS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ESTATE TAX (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); VETO (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TESTIMONY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); WILLS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); INCOME TAX (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); MARRIAGE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

PERSON: DAVENPORT, CHARLES (PROF); JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; SOLED, JAY A (PROF) BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

 
